[ 677 ] XXXV. An Experimental Inquiry into the Strength of Wrought-Iron Plates and their Riveted Joints as applied to Ship building and Vessels exposed to severe strains. By WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN, Esq. Commnunicated by the Rev. HENRY MOSELEY, F.R.S. Received April 25,-Read June 13, 1850. TIE experiments herein recorded were institutedI early in the spring of 1838, and before the close of the following winter most of them had been completed; owing however to a long series of professional engagements they have stood over (with the exception of some additions made in the following year) to the present time. The object of the inquiry was twofold-first, to ascertain by direct experiment the strength of wrought-iron plates and their riveted joints in their application as materials for ship-building, and secondly, to determine their relative value when used as a substitute for wood. On these two points it cannot be expected that our knowledge should be far advanced, as a very few years have elapsed since it was asserted that iron, from its high specific gravity, was not calculated for such a purpose, and that the greatest risk was likely to be incurred in attempting to construct vessels of what was then considered a doubtful material. Time has however proved the fallacy of these views, and I hope, in the following expeiriments, to show that the iron ship, when properly constructed, is not only more buovant, but safer, and more durable than vessels built of the strongest English oak. At the cominencetmet of the experiments I felt desirous of conducting them upon a scale of such magnitude as would supply sound practical data, and at the same time establish a series of results calculated to ensure confidence as well as economy in the use of the material. My views were ably carried out by Mr. HoDGKINSON, who conducted the experiments under rily direction, and from whom I received valuable assistance. In conducting the investigation I found it necessary to divide the subject into four distinct parts:1st. The strength of plates when torn asunder by a direct tensile strain in the direction of the fibre, and when torn asunder across it. 2ndlv. On the strength of the Joints of plates when united by rivets as compared xwith the plates thermselves. 3rdly. On the resistance of plates to the force of compression, whether applied by a dead wvei-lit or by imptact. 678 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY And lastly. On the strength and value of wrought-iron frames and ribs as applied to ships and other vessels*. PART I. At the commencement of iron ship-b uilding, in which I took an active part, the absence of acknowledged facts relative to Bthe strength and varied conditions under which the material 'was applied, was the principal reason which induced me to enter upon this inquiry. I have extended the investigation into the best methods of riveting, and the proportional strength of rivets, joints, &c., as compared with the plates and the uses for which they are intended. The latter is a practical and highly important inquiry, as great difference of opinion exists amongst engineers and others, as to the form, strength and proportions of rivets, and the joints /of which they form an essential part. I therefore considered an experimental investigation much wanted, not only on account of its important practical bearing, but what was probably of equal value, in order to remove existing discrepancies and to establish a sounder principle of construction founded upon the unerring basis of experiment. From these considerations I bestowed increased attention upon the inquiry, and endeavoured to render it practically useful. Before detailing the experiments, it may be necessary to describe the apparatus by which the results were obtained. The annexed drawings, Plate LIV., represent a side and end view of the apparatus used in the experiments. The large lever A was made of malleable iron and was fixed to the lower cross beam B (fig. 1) by a strong bolt 0. which passed through it at B. At the top end of this bolt a preparation was made to receive the end of the lever, and by means of the screw-nut at a, the lever A was raised or lowered to suit the length of the plates to be experimented upon. Upon the top side of the beam, and under the gable wall of a building five stories high, were placed two cast-iron columns, .D, D, which retained the beam B in its place and prevented it from rising when the lever was heavily loaded during the experiment. The frame E guided the end of the lever and the weight W, and close to the fulcrum were placed two wooden standards, * Several important facts and improvements in the construction of iron ships have been ascertained since my experiments were made, but I apprehend none of them have tended in the least degree to diminish their value. Nor have they, to the best of my knowledge, been superseded by others of a more elaborate or more decisive character. It is true, that a series of interesting and important experiments have been made at the instance of the Admiralty on the effect of shot upon the sides of iron ships. At some of these experiments I had the honour to be present, and witnessed some curious and unexpected results. The first series was conducted at the Arsenal, Woolwich, and subsequently others were made at Portsmouth. Both were important as respects the effect of shot upon wrought-iron plates, with enlarged and diminished charges of powder and at different velocities, but discouraging as regards the use of iron in the construction of ships of war. These experiments, however interesting in themselves, do not appear to be conclusive; and it is to be hoped that -the apparent danger, indicated by the experiments, may yet be overcome, and the superiority as well as the greater security of the iron ship fully established. /Zz &5%. D) CCCL. l97lo LIV.p. y7 _ .? st _. 7-/ . .dl j H~~~~~ ./,7 A t 1 -lD~~~ts'iV~~~~~ji 1 il \,4d IL ;< C i _ _ _ _ _ __ Si rl _1 _____ I \ ? X I -5 <_,/ . ,) , ( _t 77~ //7: v > * = ==1 g _ =; ____ 'A~~~= Xz /7 iX/-eg< i.,-77___ >_ _A_z s f 7`7 ~ ~ ~ ~ 7 _ s * i _ 1 == { _ S __' A _ X _ _J _ _ . . Uf\)i _ /7 1/7 '///j_.____,,_ '7<.91; .;..i 2_ _ i Z 3, J5t ' i i >s f ,f ii . '4 Kr-o Tu,'\t ; ff ---.-1INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 679 F F, on which were fixed the cast-iron saddles receiving the cross bar G, from which the plates to be experimented upon were suspended. These plates were nearly all, of the same form as shown at H, and were made narrower in the middle to ensure fracture in that part; the ends, as at b, 6, had plates riveted to them on, both sides, in order to strengthen them at those parts when attached to the bolts and; shackle under strain. The specimens thus prepared were suspended by the cross bolts i, i, and resting upon the standards were torn asunder by weights suspended from the large beam, as exhibited in the Plate. In addition to the large weight W, a strong scale was attached to the extreme end of the lever at I, for the purpose of increasing the weights when required in the larger description of experiments, and by the application of a pair of blocks and the windlass K, the load was removed, and the changes produced upon the plates were by these means carefully determined. The following data respecting the weight W, lever, shackle, &c., are taken from the actual weights from which the calculations are made: lbs. W. The weight with its carriage . 2552 A. The weight of the beam . . .1070 2 A. The weight of the beam . . . '. . 2140 3 A. The weight of the beam .. 3210 K. Shackle . . .24 4K. Shackle . . .96 6K. Shackle . . .144 680 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Experiments to ascertain the Strength of Plates, &c. In the following experiments all the plates wcre of uniform thickness, and of the form exhibited in fig. 2 in the column of reinarks; the ends had plates riveted to themi on both sides to render them inflexible; they had holes, O. O., bored through them perpendicular to the plate, in order to connect it by bolts, with the apparatus for tearing it asunder in the part A B, which was mnade narrower than the rest. The cenltres of the holes 0, 0 were in a direct line through the middle between A and B*. TrABLE I. Strength of Plates.-Low Moor Y)rlkshire Iron. No. Description of plate Weight Reduced dimensions in Breaking Cean breaking weight O ad dimensions in he on in middle of plate through weit in lbs. Remarks. exp. middle. lbs. weights laid on. in 1 S. Drawn in the dig. 2. Plan and section of the plates, rection of the fibre. the line AB being that of the fracture. 1 Area of section in middle 24,043 1'96 X Q Q 2 A O O 2'0 X 22= 44in. 25531 1589x'19 2531 0 00 QOO 2. 2......... 23,571 IReduced. 24,747 1-93 X 18 24,747 25,400, or 25'7 tons per O O 0 g 0 0 0 square inch. 3. ..2......... 52,923 194 x18 25,923 All the plates were lainated as if formed of three or more plates, the external ones being thinner than the internal onest. In the last experiment there was a disunion between the lamina which admitted the point of a penknife. Same iron drawn across the fibre. 4. Area of section 23,179 Alt 2red. 2'00 X'22 -44 in. 24,355 1L99 x 215 2.5,923 .........., 27,099 22 x *19 27,099 27,099, or 27'49 tons per This, it will be seen, did not break at squae inch. the narrowest place. TABLE IL. Strength of Plates.-Low Moot' Yolkshire Iron. No. Descrption of plate Weight Reduced dimensions in Breaking Mean breaking weight of and dimensions in the laid on in middle of plate through weight in lbs. exp. middle. lbs. weights laid on. in lbs. Same iron as in The form and size of secimen as before, Table I., drwn fig. 2. across the fibre. In these experiments it was observed, 5. Area of section as in No. 4. in the preceding Table, that 2'00 x 22 . '44 in. 24,355 Stretchinw.. the plate did not break at the narrowest 26,315 21'5 x '20 26,315 part, a circumstance the more anomalous, 6. 23.......... ,571 2'25 x '20 23,571 25,662, or 26 037 tons as there did not appear to be anything in per square inch. the apparatus to cause it. Same iron, thicker plates, drawn ir direction of fibre. 7. Area of section 2a00 x 26 -52 in. 27,099 Thickness '2 27 099 ................... Very uniform in texture. ....^ .. 25,923 1'9 x 24 25,92J 26,511, 6r2i -7 t6ons per The fracture of this specimen showed a square inch. great want of regularity; about one-third of the area had the appearance of steel. All the other plates appeared to be uniform, but laminated, as mentioned before. i For the appearance of the fractures see Plate LV. Nearly the whole of the plate manufactu red in this eountry are laminated, owing to the manner in which the shingles are formed, by piling a number of flat bnrs one upon anlother, which are made larger or smaller according as the plate may be reqtired heavier or lig~hter. B/hit.mns. .MDCCCL.PI [ .aLY> Sot? Y OR KS HIRE PLATES. SH ROPSHIRE PLATES. TABLE I .2cc t/59 resgist o/e the fihre 27 ? U/sl sq, 6/oZt 22.82 si odo 22. 76 Alsc do dot 29427 TABLE IV TABLE 1l /)raiwaz across rea ctc re n P sru~~~ei~el wesg~hi. Ft'g. 2. c/. tot-s v pr5 / 2741/ Ihee/e~wvz s ht '...c~-h-4 (SW (I7t c/cV 24.6 bci,00 DLRBY SHIRE; PLATES STAFFORDSHIRE PLATES c~st urek/irm7 ve ct i/se 7creal/tvzq rcyh Breakteg 'n'ezght TABLE III TABLE V /)raw 6rocs tlle/0;/re ran crcp9j I /23/ -73/rca/i isy /iu,7nheyt a, tone is sq. inch /8.66 a:s Irn s ~~~~ZAlazz7wloc '757soz .,a INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 681 The results obtained from the Low Moor plates in the preceding Tables give fair indications of their strength. It will be observed, on comparing the mean of the breaking weights in this case with the experiments of BRoWN and TELFORD, that there is a very slight difference between the strength of plates and bar iron. Taking the results of Captain BROWN, we have in eight experiments on Swedish, Welsh and Russian iron, 25 tons as a mean of the breaking weight when reduced to an inch square. In Mr. TELFORD's experiments on Swedish, Welsh, Staffordshire and faggoted iron, the mean breaking weight obtained from nine different bars was 29* tons to the square inch. The comparison will then beCaptain BROWN's experiments, 25 tons to the square inch. * M MINORD and DESAMEs' experiments, 25 tons to the square inch . . ,26*41 tons. Mr. TsLu'RD's experiments, 294 tons to the square inch . . . .J Yorkshire plates' experiments, 24J tons to the square inch. Making the strength of plates to that of bars as 24'5 : 26#4, being a comparatively small difference in their respective powers to resist a tensile force. TABLE III. Strength of Plates.-Derbyshire Iron. No. Drip of ate Weight Redu dimeniions in Bring mean r weight of and dimenon n the laid on in miiddle1 rogh wea tn ikn exp. middle. lb. weights ladon . sl Drawn in the di. Form of specimen the same as shown rection of the fibre. in Table I. fig. 2. 9, Area of section 2-00X 28in. 21,219 Stretched. 1 28,667 200 x 27 28,667 0 000 10. 2 9in. .000 00 10. 1200x 29in. 21,219 Sinking| 22,789 Sinking. 26,707 2'15 x27 26,707 2,67, or 2168 tons r There was a stripe resembling steel square inch. across the fracture near one side. Plts drawn acros the fibre. 11. Area of sexion 2'00X8 '2=56 in. 22 95 Stretching. 23,179 Thickness '27 23,179 ............................ In the broken surface there seemed to b a stratum of stee, the rest was laminate but imperety 12. 2-00 X -8 -56 i. 24,747 20x*"28 24747 23,93,or18-65 tnspe Shor -streaks of stee in frcured sr squae inch. f. If we compare the results in the Derbyshire plates with those in the preceding Tables, we have in the mean of four experi ments a ratio of 20*165 24#850, or 5 to 6 nearlv. Againo ay~ comparing the same plates with the mean strength of bars reduced to an inch square, the diffierence will be as 20 to 26, being an excess of 6 tons in favour of the bars. MDCCCL. 4 s 682 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY TABLE IV. Strength of Plates.-Shropshire Iron. No. Description of plate Weight Reducd dimensions in Breaking weight of and niensions i the laid on in middle of plate through weight in lsp Remarks. exp. niddle. lbs. weights laid on. in l s,._ Drawn in the diForm of specimen the same as showu rection of the fibre. in Table 1. fig. 2. 13. Area of section In the first experiment the fracture 2 X 265=-53in. .28,2 .........7... 225 showed an iron ery uniform, except a few bright spots like steel. 14. . .2.............. ........,923 27,099, or 22 826 tons Experiment 2. Appearance of fracture per square inch. as before, but a crack up the middle showed that the plate was formed of two plates of equal thickness, not well united. Plates of the same iron drawn across the fibre. 15. 2100x -265= -3inm ...... ............ 26,315 26,119, or 22 tons per Fracture as before, with a laminated 16. ............ .. . 25,923 square inch. diversion, as in last experiment. The Shropshire iron gives better indications of strength than those obtained from the Derbyshire plates; the mean breaking weights in the last Table being 22*41 tons. From the Yorkshire plates we have a mean breaking weight of 24#85 tons, exhibiting a difference of 2tons in favour of the Yorkshire iron, and 2 tons or about 1th greater than the Derbyshire. TABLE V. Strength of Plates.-Staffordshire Iron. No. Deseription of plate Weight Reduced dimensions in' Breaking breakin veight of and dimensions n the laid on in middle of plate through eiht in lbs. Remarks. Up. middle. lbs. weights laid on. in 1 s. Drawn in the di--Form of specimen the same as before, rection of the fibre. fig. 2. 17. 200X 26=52in. ...... ............ .23,51 22,787, or 19!563 tons Facture dark grey colour, very similar per square inch. to that from the four preceding plates. 18. ............ ....... ............ 22,003 It had however a few specks of bright matter in it, and was without any laminated appearance. Plates of the same Irregular in texture, air-bubbles in franiron drawn across tured surface, with bright crystallized the fibre. matter like steel. 19. Area of section This iron has much of the same irregu2V0 x 265 -53 in ....... . .......3.. , 4Y330 24,943, or 21-01 tons larity as the Derbyshire iron. per square inch. Surface of fracture showed the iron to 20.. . 23,571 The thickness *26 25,531 be very irregular, one-half being bright matter like steel. On comparing the strengths of the different irons, it appears that the Derb yshire and Staffordshire plates are nearly equal, the former indicating 20-165 tons as the mean of the breaking weight per square inch, and the latter, as in the preceding Table, 20'28 tons per square inch. The same comparison further applies to the above and those made on the Derbyshire plates in Table III. Taking therefore the results as derived from these experiments, it will be observed, that in every instance little or no difference appears to exist in the resisting powers of plates, whether drawn in the direction of the fibre or across it. This fact is clearly established by the following comparison, which evidently shows, that in whatever direction the plates are torn asunder, their strenlgthx is nearly the same. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 683 Mean breaking Mean breaking weight in the direcweight across the tion of the fibre, in fibre, in tons per tons per square inch. square inch. Yorkshire plates . .............. 251770 27'490 Yorkshire plates . .............. 22'760 26-037 Derbyshire plates ........... 21 18 8650 Shropshire plates .......... 22.826 22-000 Staffordshire plates 9.......... i563 21'010 Mean ........... .'22519 23-037 Or as 22 5 23 0, equal to about 1 in favour of those torn across the fibre*. From the above it is satisfactory to know, so far as regards uniformity in the strength of plates, that the liability to rupture is as great when drawn in one direction as in the other; and it is not improbable that the same property would be exhibited, and the same resistance maintained, if the plates were drawn in any particular direction obliquely across their fibrous or laminated structure. In order however to establish the relative powers of resistance in plates of rolled iron, I have endeavoured to tabulate the results as derived frorn the preceding experiments, in such form as will indicate their respective values, and place them in comparison with each other, and also with those made on bars by TELFORD and BROWN. The comparisons are made from the Yorkshire plates, as producing the best results; and conceiving them to be a fair average of the strength of rolled iron, I have selected them as the standard of comparison. Comparative results of rolled iton as derived from experiment, the Yorkshire plates being unity. Ratio of the strength of plates No. of Mean breaking Mean breaking drawn in the direction of the fibre, Names of Iron. experiments, weight in tons per weight in tons per and across it. Also of rolled and square inch. square inch. faggoted bars drawn in the direction of the fibre. Yorkshire plates ............. 8 25-514 Derbyshire plates . . 4 ........20160 1 : 07882 Shropshire plates .........4 ... 4 ........22-413 1 : 0 8789 Staffordshire plates ....... 4 .......20.264 1: 017946 Mean ............ ......... 25'514 20945 1 : 08209 From Mr. TELFORD atid Captain BROWN's expe. ....... .26'41 I : 10351 riments on bars ........ * In some experiments by NAVIEI upon the strengths of plates of wrought iron, both in the direction of the fibre and perpendicular to it, he found them as 408 to 36'4. The new methods of piling the rough bars before rolling may however account for the difference, and in a great measure determines the strength of the plate. In this country the process of piling is by equal layers of flat bars at right angles to each other, which produces great uniformity of strength and texture in the manufacture. At other places there is sometimes a difference in the mode of piling, which varies the texture of the plate, and also the strength of the layers are greater in one direction than another. 4s2 684 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Here it will be observed that the difference between the strength of the Low Moor plates in their resistance to a tensile strain, when compared with bar iron, is inconsiderable; but taking the mean of the other irons, viz. the Derbyshire, Shropshire and Staffordshire, there is a falling off in the strength of about 21 per cent.,, the ratio being in favour of bar iron as 1 035 *8209. In treating of the strength of iron, it may be useful to compare the foregoing experiments on the, tensile strength of plates with those of a similar description on timber. On this subject I feel the more desirous of establishing a comparison, as the two kinds of material are now applied to similar purposes, such as ship-building and other constructions, and the question becomes every day more important as to which of the two materials is the best. There is every reason to believe that the advocates of 'improvement would arrange themselves on the side of iron, and those for the "c wooden walls" would be equally zealous on that of timber. This is however a question which time and experience alone can determine, and conceiving that our knowledge of the properties of iron, as a material for ship-building, is far from perfect, we may safely leave its final decision to the evidence of experimental research, and a more extended application of its practical results. When we attempt a comparison of the value of one material, in its application to a specific purpose, with that of another material similarly applied, the comparison is only correct when the two materials are placed in juxtaposition, Or when they are contrasted under the same circumstances as to the trials and tests to which they are respectively subjected. Now in this comparison I am fortunate in having before me the able experinments of MUSSCHENBROCK, BUFFON, and those of a mnore recent date on direct cohesion by Professor BARLOW of Woolwich. Ithave selected from the experiments of the latter those which appear to approach most nearly to the present inquiry; and impressed with the conviction of their having been carefully conducted and being from English timber, I attach the greatest value to them. According to MusscHENBRocK's, the strengths of direct cohesion per square inch of the following kinds of timber are as follows:lbs. Locust-tree . . . 20,100 Locust-tree . .... 18,500 Beech and oak . . . 17,300 Orange . . ...15,500 Alder... . . 13,900 Elm ..... 3)200 Mulberry .....12,500 Willow..... 12,500 Ash ..... 12,500 Plum . .... 11,800 Elder .....10,000lbs. Pomegranate 9750 Lemon. . 9250 Tamarind . 8750 Fir 8330 Walnut 8130 Pitch pine . .7630 Quince . .6750 Cyprus . .6000 Poplar. .5500 Cedar . .4880 INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 685 From BARLOW the strengths are,lbs. lbs. Box .20,000 Beech. 11,500 Ash .. . 17,000 Oak . 10,000 Teak. . 15,000 Pear . 9800 Fir ..12,000 Mahogany. 8000 Mr. BARLOW, in adverting to the experiments of MUSSCHENBROCK, observes, that some of them differ considerably from his own, a circumstance probably not difficult to account for, as the different degrees of dryness have a great effect upon the strength of timber*. Dr. ROBISON in speaking of the experiments of MUSSCHENBROCK, states, that we may presume they were carefully made and faithfully narrated, but they were made on such small specimens, that the unavoidable natural inequalities of growth or texture produced irregularities in the results wbich have too great a proportion to the whole quantities observed. It is for the same reason that I give preference to Mr. BARLOw'S results, as he observes, "that the experiments from which they are drawn were made with every possible care the delicacy of the operation would admit." Assuming therefore that BARLOW is correct, and taking the mean strength of i'ron plates, as given in the preceding Tables, at 49,656 lbs. to the square inch, or calling it 50,000 lbs., and the resistance of the direct cohesion of different kinds of timber as given by Mr. BARLOW, the following ratio of strengths will be obtained: Timber Iron. Ratio, taking lbs. lbs. timber as unity. Ash . . . . . 17,000 50,000, or as I : 2'94 Teak. ... 15,000 50,000, or as 1 :3,33 Fir . 12,000 50,000, or as I :416 Beech . 11,500 50,000, or as 1 :4-34 Oak .10,000 50,000, or as 1: 5 00 Hence it appears that the direct cohesion of iron plates is five times greater than oak; or in other words, their powers of resistance to a force applied to tear them, asunder is as 5 to 1, making an iron plate inch thick equal to an oak plank of 22 inches thick. In the teak wood and fir specimnens, which exhibit greater resisting' powers, nearly the same rule will apply, and thinner planks, as regards the tensile strength, would answer the purpose. This its a circumstance which may be appli. cable to teak wood, but unfavourable to fir when viewed as a building material exposed to a great variety of strains, or when used for sheathing and similar purposes in the art of ship-building. The teak wood being timber of greater density and of * It has been shown by Mr. HODGKINSON, that timber, when wet, will be crushed by a force less than onehalf of what would take to crush it when dry. It therefore follows that much depends upon the samples selected and the way in which the timber has been seasoned. 6 18MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY higher specific gravity, is better calculated to resist shocks than a tough fibrous substance of a soft and spongy nature, such as fir. On this subject it should however be noticed, that whatever material is used for covering the ribs of vessels, it should be strong and elastic, in order to resist not only the force of direct tension, but that of lateral and compressed action. In a ship at sea these forces are strikingly exemplified, and that under circumstances embarrassing as well to the practical builder as the man of science. Remarks on theforegotng ezperiments. Having determined the strength of iron plates when drawn in the direction of the fibre as well as across it, and having compared the results with experiments of a similar character on timber, it may be useful to offer a few general observations on the question now under consideration. Dr. RoBINSON, in his article on the strength of materials*, when discussing the nature of a stretching force applied to materials, observes, " that in pulling a body asunder the force of cohesion is directly opposed with very little imodification of its action; that all parts are equally stretched, and the strain in every transverse section is the same in every part of that section." From this it would appear, that a body of a homogeneous texture will have the cohesion of its parts equal, and since every part is equally stretched, it follows that the particles will be drawn to equal distances, and the forces thus exerted must be equal. Now if this were true, the application of an external force to a body might be increased to such an extent as not only to separate the parts furthest asunder, but ultimately to destroy the cohesion of all the particles at once, a circumstance under which instantaneous rupture would follow as a result. These views are however not borne out by facts, as the experiments of Mr. HODGKmINSON on iron wire show that the same iron may be torn asunder many times in succession without impairing its strengthf; and some recent experiments at the Royal Dockyard, Woolwich, clearly show, that an iron bar may be stretched until its transverse section is considerably reduced and ultimately broken without injury to its tensile strength. Nay, more, the same iron (so elongated), when again submitted to experiment, exhibited increased strength, and continued to increase, under certain limitations, beyond the bearing powers of the same bar in its original formt. That all the parts of a body " subjected to a tensile strain are equally stretched " is therefore questionable. Bodies vary considerably in their powers of resistance, and exhibit peculiar properties of cohesion under the influence of forces calculated to tear them asunder. Fibrous substances, for instance, such as ropes and sonic kinds of tingber having their fibres twisted, are enabled to resist tension under the influence of considerable elongation without impairing their ultimate strength.* Encyclopvedia Britannica. t Manchester Memoirs, vol. v. + I am indebted to Mr. THoMAs LOYD of the Admiralty for a series of interesting results on this subject. See Appendix. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 687 Many of the fibres are stretched, but only to the extent of bringing the others to bear upon the load, which done, their united force constitutes the maximum of resistance to a tensile strain. Other bodies of less ductility and more of a crystalline structure, such as cast iron, stone, glass, &c., seem to be subject to the same law. In these cases it seldom happens that the whole of the particles are brought into action at once, as much depends upon the conditions of the body, the unequal state of tension of its parts and the strain which some of the particles must sustain before the others receive their due portion of the load. Should the non-resisting particles be within the limits of elongation of the other particles, the body will then have attained its maximum power of resistance; but in the event of rupture to any of the resisting particles, the cohesive force of the body is thereby reduced, and that to the extent of the injury sustained by the fractured parts. "There are however," as Dr. RoBINSON truly observes, "immense varieties in the structure and composition of bodies which lead to important facts, and prove that the absolute cohesion of all bodies, whatever be their texture, is proportional to the areas of their sections." Undoubtedly this is the case in bodies having an uniform texture with straight fibres, and hence it follows that the absolute strength of a body, resisting a tensile strain, will be as the area of its section. The peculiar nature of the material combining a crystalline as well as a fibrous structure has led to these observations. In some instances the specimens experimented upon exhibited an almost distinct fibrous texture, and in others a clearly developed crystalline structure*. At other times some of the specimens were of a mixed kind, with the crystalline and fibrous forms united; the fracture having a laminated appearance, with the crystalline parts closely bound on each side by layers of the fibrous structure. These varieties are probably produced in the manufacture, and may be easily effected either by the mode of "piling " the layers of bars which form the plate, or from the unequal temperature of the parts as they pass through the rolls. But whichever way they are produced, it is evident, from the experiments, that the fractures gave, in most cases, indications of an unequal and varied texture. In the foregoing experiments, and also in those which follow, great attention was paid to the appearance of the fracture, in order to ascertain the structure of the plate, and to determine how far it could be depended upon in its application to the varied purposes for which it was intended. These appearances are all shown in the drawings appended to the experiments, and to which I beg to refer. See the fractured parts of the different specimens, Plate LV. 688 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY PART IL. Ott the Strength of Iron Plates united by 1Rivets, and the best mode of Riveting. The extensive and almost innumerable uses to which iron is applied, constitute one of the most important features in the improvements of civilized life. It contributes to the domestic comforts and commercial greatness of the country, and from its cheapness, strength and power of being moulded, rolled and forged into almost every shape, it is not only the strongest, but in many respects the most eligible material for the construction of vessels exposed to severe strain. Large vessels composed of iron plates, such as steam-boilers, cisterns, ships, &c., cannot however be formed upon the anvil or the rolling-mill. They are constructed of many pieces, and these pieces have to be joined together in such a manner as to ensure the requisite strength and effect all the requirements of sound construction. This operation is called riveting, and although practically understood, it has not, to my knowledge, on any previous occasion, received that attention which the importance of the subject demands. Up to the present time* nothing of consequence has been done to improve or enhance thevalue of this process. We possess no facts orexperiments calculated to establish principles sufficient to guide our operations in effecting constructions of this kind, on which the lives of the public as well as the property of individuals depend. In fact, such has been our ignorance of the relative strength of plates and their riveted joints, that until the commencement of the present inquiry the subject was considered of scarcely sufficient importance to merit attention. Even now, it is by many assumed that a well-riveted joint is stronger than the plate itself, and a number of persons, judging from appearances alone, concur in that opinion. Now this is a great mistake, and although the double thickness of the joint indicates increased strength, it is nevertheless much weaker than the solid plate, a circumstance of some importance, as we hope to show in the following experiments. It would probably be superfluous to offer any lengthened description of the principle upon which wrought-iron plates are united together; riveting is so familiar to every person in this country, that it might appear a work of supererogation to attempt it; and, assuming that the usual method of riveting by hammers to be generally known, we shall proceed to describe another method by machinery which effects the same object in considerably less time and at less cost, and completes the union of the plates with much greater perfection than could possibly be done by the hand. In handriveting it will be observed, that the tightness of the joint and the soundness of the work depends upon the skill and also upon the will of the work nan, or those who undertake to formn the joint and close the rivets. In the mnachine-riveting neither the will nor the hand of man has anything to do w ith it, the machine closes the joint and forms the rivet with an urinerring precision, and in no instance can imperfect work be accomplished solong as the rivets are heated to the extent compressible by the machine. * 1838, when these observations were written. T Phd.i 24fi IMICCCL. -7P1d1 WIA p .:! 69 R I V ET I NG MACH I N E 0 0 00 00 00 0 0f/.g/7.007 . x O OO k1 X a&D be tAX1> l 0C O3 OS@U3i03 1!Ap~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 X--, ca& MO /oooo a.nto oooo.o 22 6 0 L 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 et 11 1 L l l l l l P Ia11,. =~44'Al a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .... INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 689 This property of unvarying soundness in the work, constitutes: the superiority of the machine over the hand-riveting. The machine produces much sounder work, as the time occupied in the hand process allows the rivet to cool, and thus by destroying its ductility, the rivet is imperfectly closed, and hence follow the defects of leaky rivets and imperfect joints. It is evident that an instrument, such as the riveting-machine, having sufficient force to compress the rivet at once, or within an almost infinitely short period of time, must obviate, if not entirely remedy, these evils, as the force of compression being nearly instantaneous, the heads on both sides cannot be formed until the body of the rivet is squeezed tight into the hole; and in every case (even where the holes are not exactly straight) the compressed rivets are never loose, but fill the holes with the same degree of tightness as if placed directly opposite to each other. If, for example, we take a circular boiler, such as represented at A*, Plate LVI. fig. 3, and having all the perforations made and the plates attached to each other by, temporary bolts and suspended over the machine in the position, as shown at A, and having brought the holes in a line with the die marked i, k, the machine then is set to work, and by means of the cam or excentric raising the pulley of the elbow-joint C;tlhe die k is advanced against the fixed die i in the wrought-iron stem, and the rivet is compressed into the required form with an increasing force as the die advances which gives the "nip," or greatest pressure, at the required time, namely, at the closing of the rivet. From this description it will appear that a very limited portion of time is occupied in the process, and as twelve rivets can be inserted and finished bv the machine in a minute, it follows, from the rapidity of the operation and the absence of hammering, that the ductility of the rivets is retained, and their subsequent contraction upon the plate renders the joint perfectly tight and the rivets sound in every respect. Under all the circumstances the machine-riveting is preferable to that executed by the hammer ; it saves much time and labour, and that in proportion of 12 to I , when compared to a long series of impacts applied by the hammer. Having described the process of uniting wrought-iron plates by rivets, it may be of some importance to know the value of joints thus formed as regards their strength when compared with the plates themselves. To attain this object, and satisfactorily to determine their powers of resistance to a tensile strain, a great variety of joints were made, and having prepated the different specimens with the utmost care and attention, they were submitted to the test of experiment as follows : * The plan represents the machine in the act of riveting the corners of a square cistern or a locomotive firebox. MIDCCCL. 4 T 690 MR. FAIRJAIIN'S EXPERIMIENTAL INQUIRY TABLE VI. Strength of riveted Plates.-Yorkshire Jron*. No. Descrodeton of plates i Cbanges produced Brealing Form of specimen and mode of and mnode of livetigs laid on by weights. xveibht in lbs. of fracture. Remarks. 21. Plates 22 inches Fig. 4. thick, overlap joirts, two rivets half-ineh diameter, lap l{I inch, AB =3 inches, riveted 0 bythepatent machine . ...... ..,.. 20,011 Torn acrss at the rivet-holes. 22. Same as last, area d* -44 in. ...1, * .... 67 f8 G Rivet-holes torn out. 23. .............2 ...... ............ 21,703 J ? Rivet-holes torn out. Plates I -1 di . ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . P. ! 24. Plates as before, riveted by the hammer, the rivets half-inch diameter, being of the usual length, but rather shorterthanthose used for the machine. 14,839 ........ 16,115 Specimen same as heRivet-heads broke o and the plate fore, fig. 4 torn across theia in consequence. 25. .............. 15,343 Plates bent. 16,099Ja. ....... Rivet-heads cracked across and rivet-holes torn out. 26. Plates same as beHere the rivets wexe the same fore and riveted by the length as the machine rivets, expehammer, with halfriments 1, 2, 3, a d were worked inch rivets, the rivets with great care on both sides. being a little longer and 2 inches lap . 14,839 Plates bent nearly 17,833 s Specimen same as beBoth rivet-heads broken and the into a direct line l , fore, fig. 4. plate torn across them. withstrainin force. f cc? 27. ........ 14, .839 201.. 20)1J31 ....1........ 1J Torn across at rivet-holes, and one rivet-head split. 28. Plates same as before, lap 2 inches, and the rivets the same as in the last experiment, but riveted by the machine ................14,839 Plates bent into 19,123 Specimen 'same as beBoth rivets cracked across, metal a direct line by the cod fore, fig. 4. torn across the rivet-holes. straining force. I ci 29. -............... 1 67 Joint apparently 19,1 1 .......... Torn across at the rivet-holes, sound. . both rivets slightly cracked near the head. The plates 'used in thae foregoing experi nents are of Yor}kshire iron, the same as ti ose empioye rin Tables L. and 1. T'he specimens wevre prepared in the same manner anc of the samne t ickness, but 1 inch vider at the joint This was done in order to retain sunficient inetal round the rivet-holes , iiaking the breadth of the plate the sa cne after t'e rivet-holes were punci ed o t as that of the plates torn asunder in the precedinr expeiriments. In all these experitents only two half-inch rivets were used in the breadth of the plate. The lap xwas howvever increased, after the three first experiments, from3 1 to 2 inches, to give greater strength in. the longitudinal line, of the plate and to prevert the metal tearing in tiat dir 'tion. This precaution was * The na5ture a d appearance of the fractures of all the irdnls and their rivelted joints are shown in Plate LVII. p a zs MD CCCL. l iLV1J. TA BLE. Vt. TABLE VII. 'I~~~~~~ t~MJk TABLE. VI II TA8LE. !X. me;e e n8zytr .. ;.Sbi : ; 2w ..e. .: o-~s. 31>S ;-.A:iM0M RP. IN~~ 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 A9 0 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U INTO THE STRENGTH OF 1 WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 691 found necessary, as the metal gave indications of weakness in consequence of the lap being rather narrow. Another reason for enlarging the lap was a desire at the cornmencement to begin with the least possible quantity, and by direct experiment to ascertain the maximum distance which the plates should overlap each other in the joints, and to determine the strongest and best form of uniting them. To these points every attention was given, for the purpose of collecting the facts on which are founded the tabulated results on that part of the subject which treats of the comparative dimensions of rivets and extent of the lap in reference to the thickness of the plates. In this department of the inquiry will be found the depth of lap, diameter and length of rivets, and the distances of holes for nearly every description of joint; also the thickness of the plate, with a column of strengths as deduced from the experiments. If we examine the nature of the fracture in the foregoing experiments, it will be found that the machine-riveting is superior to that done by the hamnmer; the mean of the three first experiments being to the mean of the fourth and fifth as 5 : 4. In the eighth and ninth the strengths are nearly the same. On comparing the strength of plates with their riveted joints, it will be necessary to examine the sectional areas taken in a line through the rivet-holes with the section of the plates themselves. It is perfectly obvious, that in perforating a line of holes along the edge of a plate, we must reduce its strength; and it is also clear, that the plate so perforated, will be to the plate itself nearly, as the areas of their respective sections, with a small deduction for the irregularities of the pressure of the rivets upon the plate; or in other words, the joint will be reduced in strength somewhat more than the ratio of its section, through that line, to the solid section of the plate. For example, suppose two plates, each 2 feet wide and three-eighths of an inch thick, to be riveted together with ten Ainch rivets. It is evident that out of 2 feet, the length of thle joint, the strength of the plates is reduced by perforation to the extent of 71 inches; and here the strength of the plates will be to that of the joint as 9: 6'1875 which is nearly the same as the respective areas of the solid plate, and that through the rivet-holes, namely, as 24 : 16'5. From these facts it is evident that the rivets cannot add to the strength of the plates, their object being to keep the two surfaces of the lap in contact, and being headed on both sides, the plates are brought into very close union by the contraction or cooling of the rivets after they are closed. It may be said that the pressure or adhesion of the two surfaces of the plates would add to the strength; but this is not found to be the case, to any great extent, as in almost every instance the experiments indicate the resistance to be in the ratio of their sectional areas, or nearly so. If we take the ultimate strength of the Yorkshire plates in Tables I. and II., it will be found that the mean breaking weight of eight specimens, each with a sectional area of '46 inch, is 26,168, and the strength of the single joint*, of the same description of plates with an area of A44 inch, is 18,591 ; this reduced gives the ratio of the * I use the term single joint to distinguish it from the double riveted joint, which will be treated of hereafter. 4 T2 692 MR. FAIRBAIRN S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY strength as 25,030: 18,591, or as 1 : '742, the comparative strength of a single riveted plate of equal area through the line of the rivets. It will be observed that in this comparison the areas of the sections are nearly equal, and consequently there is a difference in strength between the solid part of the plate and that part where the perforations have been made of 32 per cent. The difference is considerable, but it probably arises from the narrowness of the specimen and the lateral strain induced by the position of the rivet, and the bending upwards of the end of the plates. From these facts I would infer that single riveting is weaker, and probably the loss of strength in this description of joint, including loss caused by the rivet-holes, is not less, under ordinary circumstances, than 40 per cent. TABLE VII Strength of riveted Plates. NotPeserip on of plates V ei liht Chang pduced by Breaking Form of specimen and moe of and an e of rive ng. lad o weight. ightn lbs. oat ureAuke. X 1o, wi 30. Plates 22 inches Fig. 5. thick, with three rivets, each inch diameter,AB 3inches, p . The plates were sound, but So of 11 inch, area through the rivets were cut directly across. rivet-holes 4125 ....... 14,839 Bent into a 16 Rivets too weak. straight line. 31. Plates the same as Fig. 6. before, overlap joint differing f the last in having three rivets I inch diameter, forming an isoscles tri0 angle, AB 3 inches ... 1i,667 Joint appently 22,699 With the first weight the plates sound. became bent, soas to be in a direct 20,683 Single rivet line wih the sting force. slightly. opened. A 22,027 The other two rivets qui tight. Tore across the two rivet-holes, 32. Same as before ...... 18,667 Separation at end in the direction AB. of plate, single rivet 0 O With 22,027 lbs. the single rivet slightly oened. seemed somewhat opened, but the 22,027 ....... * * I Iother two seemed quite close. Plate torn across at the single rivet and one of the double ones. 23,035 Slightly drwn at 23,371 . Rivets sound in this and the prethe rivets ............ ceding experiment. In the first e'xperijment the rivets (two in number) were evidently too weak, which caused them to shear directly across as if cut by a pair of scissors. In the next experiment the rivets were increased in number and size, w hich gave an excess of strength to the retaining power of the rivets and caused the plate to tear. If we take thle mean of the experiments as t'espects the areat of the rivets to that of the plates, INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 693 we find two half.inch rivets about the proportion, or the area of the rivets in the last experiments should have been '4 inches, which is nearly equal to the area of the plate through the rivet-holes*. TABLE VIII. Strength of riveted Plates. No. Desription o plates Weight Changes ed by Breaking orm of specimen and Of and moesr of rivet g. laid on poudb Bein FrmfsecenadRemarks. exp. d mode l.rivet g. in l i weight. weight in lbs. mode of fracture. 33. Plates same as beFig. 7. Though the ends of the plates were fore, *22 inch thick, _ , much separated, the light of a candle but wider, AB being could not be seen through the line of 31 inches, with three the rivets. rivets Iinch diameter, allinaline; lap 11in. 18,667 Ends of plate much 19,675 . Plate torn across the rivet-holes. separated by bending. Ao fii _ _ __ . . _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 09 ia 34. Thickerplates-26in. 18,667 Ends of plate sepa. Fig. 8. Tore across the two rivet-holes. thick,in other respects rated, joints apparently the same as in experigood. ments 31,32, Table VII.; lap 3 inches; rivets i inch diameter 22,699 One plate much bent 23,7071 z C 35. Plates the same as joint apparently good. the last .. 21,019 One end separated so 27,067 J ; Tore across the two rivet-holes, far astoexhibitthesingle | where the breadth was 3' inches. Here the section of the rivets is to that of the plates, through the line of the rivets, in the ratio of *58 to '44; had they been equal, it is probable that fracture would have taken place as soon by the rivets shearing as through the plates. During the whole of the experiments on single riveted joints, it was observed that the ends of the plates under strain curled upwards on each side, and produced a diagonal strain upon the plates, which materially reduced the strength of the joint, as shown at a fig. 7. This position gave an oblique direction to the forces, and caused the plate to break in some degree transversely through the rivet-holes. In order to obviate this defect, and prevent as much as possible a transverse strain upon the plates through the * Subsequent experiments made for ascertaining the strength of rivets (vide experiments on the strength of rivets for the Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges) fully corroborate these views, namely, that riveted joints exposed to a tensile strain are directly, or nearly so, as their respective areas, or in other words, the collective areas of the rivets are equal to the sectional area of the plate taken through the line of the rivets. 694 IR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY points in contact, the lap was increased and a third rivet introduced to keep down the ends of the plates. The sketches in the 31st experiment, Table VII., and those 'in the 34th and 35th experiment, Table VIII., represent the form of joint, and the methods adopted for securing the plates in the direct line of the strain. On comparing the breakinv weights, it will be seen that the increased lap, with a rivet to keep down and retain the ends of the plates, gives a considerable accession of strength, and exhibits several important facts in connection with the construction of vessels exposed to severe pressure. But this becomes more apparent in the forthcoming experiments on the double-riveted joints. TABLE IX. Strength of riveted Plates. No. Description of plates Weight Changes produced by Breaking Form of specimen and of and mode of r iveting. lbaid 05 weight.weight in lbs. mode of fracture. Remarks. Fig. 9_ 36. Double-riveted 16,115 Plates bent in a right . Torn right across at the three plates -22 inch thick; line between the points Q Q rivet-holes, all the rivets being overlap joints riveted of tension. sound after fracture. with ye rivets of W inch diameter each; lap 2 inches; AB=3 inches in breadth ... 21,715 Littleornoalteration. 24,043 37. Plates the same as , _ before, except that A AB=21 inches i breadth ........... 18,667 Plates bent into right 21,019 ________ | Broke as before; rivets all line, as before. sound. In these experiments, as in those in the preceding Table, the area of the rivets is in excess, and hence follows rupture through the plates. TABLE X. Strength of riveted Plates. &c. No. Description of plates Weight changes produced by Breaking Form of specimen and of e nd mode of riveting. laidon weight. weight in lbs. mode of fracture. Remarks. Fig. 10. 38. "Jump Joints." 14,839 Bent into straight line. Tore across the rivet-holes. Plates the same as be0 fore, both riveted to an extra plate of the 19,627 All sound. Rivets sound after fracture. samethicknesslaidon 1 0 one side of them; lap 21,691 Rivets sound; plates ,371' of extra plate over much bent. each end 2 inches; 23B371 each plate riveted by A v 31 yve rivets inch diameter; AB 3 1inches. 39. Same as above ......1 8,667 Bent nearly into a 1 0 1 > straight line. 0 0 22,699 Rivets sound; joint ap24,043] C Tore across as before; one parently good. rivet-head crooked. The same observations will apply to these experiments as to the last; the area of the rivets is in excess of that of the plates. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHTI.IRON PLATES. 695 The system of double riveting exhibits several remarkable properties as regards strength, and the plates appear to retain their position under strain much better than single-riveted joints. These circumstances have induced a comparison of the results of the preceding experiments with those contained in Tables VII., VIII., IX. and X. The experiments in rables VII. and VIII. give indications of increased strength by a slight enlargement of the lap and the introduction of a single rivet to keep down the end of the plate. In those experiments it was found that the additional rivet gave an increase of 26 per cent. over those obtained from the single rivets; a circumstance which suggested a further extension of the experiments, accompanied with a minute investigation of the parts, in order to ascertain their relative strengths, and the strongest form of joint. The mean breaking weights of equal, sections of single-riveted joints, as given in Table VI. and taken from nine experiments, are respectively as follows: 25,1271 16,107 Mean. . 18,590 18,~982] 19,147 giving a mean of 18,590 lbs. for the strength of single-riveted joints. Now in the second and third experiments, Table VII., with the rivets inserted in the shape of an isosceles triangle (which in fact is double riveting), and of equal sections to the specimens in Table VI., the mean breaking weight is 23,035, which gives an excess of 4445, or a ratio of 10 :8 in favour of the experiments recorded in Table VII. In the experiments (Table X.), the area of the section, taken through the line of the rivet-holes, is -44 inch, or precisely equal to the section of the specimens experimented upon in Table VI., in which the mean breaking weight is 18,590 lbs. In these experiments the breaking weight is 23,707 lbs., which is rather more than that in Table IX., where the material had a smaller section, but having its dimensions exactly corresponding with the proportions given above. It therefore follows that in plates jointed with single rivets, the ratio of the strength of the single rivets is to that of the doubleriveted joints as 8 to 10 the latter bein' one-fourth stronger. It has been ascertained that it required a weight of 23,707 lbs. to tear asunder double-riveted plates, 3-1 inches wide and -22 inches thick, with a flush joint, having a plate on the back and held together by five i-inch rivets on each side; the quantity of metal between the holes, in a direct line across the plate, being 2 X '22=A44 inch, which is the same transverse section as those operated upon in the first Table. Now if we take the mean breaking weights of the riveted joints in Tables X. and VI. and compare them with the section of the plate itself as given in Table I., the areas being the samve, we have for the tensile strength of platesSection of iron torn asunder. lbs. In Table I., solid plate. .. .44 25,400 In Table X., dou~ble-riveted joints . ...*44 23,707 In Table VI*, single-riveted joints . . . .*44 18,590 696 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Assuming therefore the strength of the plates to be 1000, we haveFor the strength of plates of equal sections .1000 For the double-riveted joints .933 For the single-riveted joints .731 We may safely assume these ratios as the comparative values of jointed plates of equal sections when acted upon by a force calculated to tear them asunder. The correct value of the plates, computed from, a sectional area taken through the rivet-holes, will therefore be to their riveted joints as 100, 93 and 73, or in round numbers as 10, 9 and 7. In addition to a loss of nearly one-tenth in the double-riveted joints, and threetenths in the single ones, it will be observed that the strength of the plates is still further reduced by the quantity of iron punched out for the rivets. TABLE XI. Single riveted Plates. No. Description of plates Weight Changes proned by Breaking Form of secimen and of and moe of riveting. la id on ein a. exp . in lbs. in l o t. 40. Plates same as be~~~~~~~~ ~~Fig. 11. By the word countersunk'i ndr 40 Plte same a!1 be__ is unAder-_ '': fore, 22 inch thick, stood a conical recess on one side of with overlap joint and 'the plate to receive the head of the double rivets; counrivet, in order that it might not protersunk on one side; ject beyond the surface of the plate AB=L3 inches; five rivets, each diameter.................19,675 Plates bent in a right line; doubtful whether the joint would hold t water . 23,707 Tore across the three rivet-holes. 41. Plates the same In an unsuccessful experiment strength, but different made beore this upon plates precisely fromthe last in havng the same, and riveted in the same only -inch rivets all manner, they were torn across the in a line AB 3-ins. P bt n hrivet-holes in attempting to lay on 14,839 Plates bent intoa right 18,667 lbs. line with the fixing.... 16,351 Plats tore across the rivet-holes. 42. Same as last, except in not having the rivet-holes countersunk; lap 1 inch; AB=33inches ...... 14,839 Joint sound ........... 1, 16351 All the rivets on one side were cut in two in the middle, and the plates left sound. The results in the two last experiments, in the above Table, are identical as to strength. In the first, with the countersunk rivets, the plates were torn asunder, and in the latter the rivets appear the weakest, owing to the increased sectional area of the plates, which in the preceding experiment was reduced by countersinking the rivets. In both experiments it will be observed that the strengths of the rivets are proportional to the strengths of the plates, their powers of resistance being equal, or nearly so. In forty-one experiments the sectional area of the rivets was to that of the plates as 340 to 347, that is, the sections were nearly equal; and in fotty-two experiments as 34 to *44 which accounts for the nature of the fracture in both cases. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 697 TABLE XII Strength of riveted Plates. NO Dsripon ofpa lei o Chang produced by Breaking Form of specimen and marks. o tf and si me f riveting. in on weight. weight in lbs. mode ffrature. exp. inlb 43. Plates the same as 19,879 Sound; no alteraFig. 12. Both side plates were torn across, before, their edges tion. and two of the rivets cut off. The sum brought into contact, of the thickness of the side plates was and each plate riveted '24 inch, the middle plates being -22 by three rivets of inch thick. an inch diametr, to a plate on each side of the joint, each external plate being half the thickness of the A B internal, or a little thicker; AB= 3ins. 24,715 2 ......... . 25,73 z J1 The middle plates were left sound. 44. Plate same as last ... ...... .... 21,355 J S Second experimeent broken as before, the two outside plates torn off; all the l l | } ?0 1 dl, rest sound. 45. SameasthelastexpeFig. 12 a. Middle plate torn straight across the riment, having thicker rivet-holes. plates outside, each 0 0 All the rivets and both plats left being 15 inch thick. 23,371 Joint good ......... 24,715 sound. 46. Differing from the 23,371 Joint sound ..................... Both outside plates torn across at last only in having five the three rivets. rivets to each plate in double rows instead of three rivets d diame-.A VB ter; AB=3* inches ... 25,387 26....*..... 26,0591 _ 47. Same as the last . 23,371 Joint sound ......... Outer plate sound; torn across the 24,715 Slightly altered; two rivet-holes. loint good ........ 27,403 Rivets sound; inner plate only torn. 00 When the comparative merits of plates and their riveted joints were under consi'deration, it appeared desirable to repeat several of the experiments, particularly those which seemed to throw light upon their relative powers of resistance. I considered these experiments to be of importance, as they increased our knowledge, as respects the strength of the material, and also its properties in combination. In ship-building these objects are of sorte value, as any reduction in the powers or parts of a vessel by imperfect construction, or misapplied material, might lead to serious error and even great risk to the safety of the ship. Since the first use of iron for these objects, it has been the practice to countersink the heads of the rivets in order to present a smnooth surface for the passage of the vessel throng h the water. This pralctice is in general use at my vorks at Millwall, and I believe the salme methlods are pursued at the estab~lishmtlent Of Messrs. JOHN LAIRD and Co., and others in dfifferent parts of the country. The introduction of this system of riveting caused a ftirther extension of the experiments, in order to elucidate the various forms of joints given in the preceding TRables, and further to investigate the strength of the joint with a plate riveted on eaich side, which appears to be the strongest and best calculated to resist a tensile strain. riThis description of joint is seldom used in ship-bulilding, but in order to render the expcriments as perfect as MIDCCCL.F4 698 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY possible, it will be necessary to consider it in this paper with others of equal importance and probably of more general use. The system of countersinking the rivets is only used when smooth surfaces are required; under other circumstances their introduction would not be desirable, as they do not add to the strength of the joint, but to a certain extent reduce it. This reduction is not observable in the experi-ments, but the simple fact of sinking the head of the rivet into the plate and cutting out a greater portion of metal, must of necessity lessen its strength, and render it weaker than the plain joint with raised heads. This must appear evident from the fact of the sectional area of the plate being diminished, and the consequent reduction of the heads of the rivets, which in this state are less able to sustain the effects of an oblique or transverse strain. It is, however, satisfactory to observe that countersinking the heads of the rivets does not seriously injure the joint in its powers of resistance to a direct tensile force; but the rivets are liable to start when exposed to collisions or a strong impinging force, such as the sides of ships are frequently doomed to encounter. On referring to experiments (Table XI.), the same results as to strength are obtained with the countersunk rivets as those with rounded heads; they are rather under the mean of the former experiments, but not more than is easily accounted for by the reduced section of the countersunk plates. The joint with plates, riveted on each side, is seldom used, a circumstance which probably arises from its greater complexity of form and the danger which a treble thickness of plate would be subject to if used in boilers or vessels exposed to the action of intense heat. It is also inadmissible in ship-building, as the smooth surface requires to be maintained, and the greatest care observed in the formation of the outer sheathing to lessen the resistance of every part of the hull immersed in the water. In other respects the double-riveted plate is a strong joint, and in every case, where great strength is required, it may be used with perfect safety. It will be unnecessary to go through a further comparison of the experiments, as sufficient data have already been furnished to enable us to calculate the force per square inch, and to resolve the whole into a general summary exhibiting the relative strengths-lst, of the plates; 2ndly, of the singleand double-riveted joints; and lastly, the ratio of the strengths as deduced from the whole series of experiments. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 699 General summary of Results as obtained from the foregoing Experiments. Strength of singleStrength of doubleCohesive strength d riveted joints of equal riveted joints of equal plates. Breaking section to the plates, section to the plates, weight in lbs. per taken through the line taken through the line weige inch. of rivets. Breaking of rivets. Breaking square inch. weight in bs. per weight in Ibs. per square inch. square inch. 57,724 45,743 5 ,352 61,579 36,606 48,821 58,322 43,141 58,286 50,983 43,515 54,594 51,130 40,249 53,879 49, 81 44,715 53,879 43,805 37,161 47,062 Mean ... 52,486 41,590 53,635 The relative strengths will therefore be,For the plate. .1000 Double-riveted Joint . .1021 Single-riveted joint . .791 From the above, it will be seen that the single-riveted joints have lost one-fifth of the actual strength of the plates, whilst the double-riveted have retained their resisting powers unimpaired. These are important and convincing proofs of the superior value of the double joint, and in all cases where strength is required this description of joint should never be omitted. On referring to the experiments contained in the separate tables, there will be found a striking coincidence in the facts tending to establish the principle of double riveting as superior in every respect to the general practice now in use of the single rivets. It appears, when plates are riveted in this manner, that the strength of the joints is to the strength of the plates of equal sections of metal as the numbers,1000 1021 and 791 *. In a former analysis it was 1000 933 and 731, which gives us a mean of 1000 977 and 761 which in practice we may safely assume as the correct value of each. Exclusive of this difference, we must however deduct 30 per cent. for the loss of metal actually punched out for the reception of the rivets, and the absolute strength of the plates will then be, to that of the riveted joints, as the numbers 100, 68 and 46. In some cases, where the rivets are wider apart, the loss sustained is however not so great; * The cause of the increase of strength in the double-riveted plates may be attributed to the riveted specimens being made from the best iron, whereas the mean strength of the plates is taken from all the irons experimented upon, some of inferior quality, which will account for the high value of the double-riveted joint. In ordinary cases and in practice it will therefore be safer to take the mean of the whole, viz.Strength of plates ...................., . 100 Strength of double-riveting ..... ......97 And of single-riveting ......,,,...... 76 4 U2 700 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY but in boilers and similar vessels, where the rivets require to be close to each other, the edges of the plates are weakened tothat extent. In this estimate we must however take into consideration the circumstances under which the results weie obtained, as only two or three rivets came within the reach of experiment: and again, looking at the increase of strength which might be gained by having a greater number of rivets in combination, and the adhesion of the two surfaces of the plates in contact, which in the compressed rivets by machine is considerable, we may fairly assume the following relative strengths as the value of plates with their riveted joints:Taking the strength of the plate at .100 The strength of the double-riveted joint would then be . 70 And the strength of the single-riveted joint ...... 56 These proportions may therefore in practice be safely taken as nearly the standard value of joints, such as used in vessels where they are required to be steamor watertight, and subjected to pressure varying from 10 to 100 lbs. upon the square inch. Since the above was written, I have ascertained, on a recent visit to Bristol, that the large steamn-ship*. now building there is double-riveted, the plates being three-fourths of an inch thick over the bottom and bilge, and five-eighths thick up to the waterline. These plates are joined together with double rivets of 1 inch diameter, and inserted at distances of 3 inches apart. The proportions appear to be good; and conceiving the workmanship to be equally so, I should infer that this fine vessel would fairly establish the principle, that iton, in all the ramifications of ship-building, is an article of paramount importance to the wai' as well as to the mercantile navy. In the pursuit of the foregoing inquiry, I was naturally led to the consideration of the best proportions and I)est forms of riveting plates together. I investigated this subject with great care, and from my own personal knowledge and that of others, I have collected a number of practical fracts, such as long experience alone could furnish. From these data I have been enabled to complete the following Table, which for practical use I have found highly valuable in proportioning the distances and strength of rivets in joints requiring to be steamor water-tight. Table exhibiting the strongest forms and best proportions of riveted joints as deduced fromi the experiments and actual practice. Thickness of Diameter of Length of rivets Distance of rivets Quantity of lap Quantity of lap in double-riveted plates in inches. rivets in inches. from the head in from centre to in single joints in joints in inches. inches. centre in inches. inches. *19= 1 6 -*38 '881 125}6 1256 6 .,25-4 A 50 2 1-13 1. 150 -31 .63715 163 485 63 1-88 For the double-riveted joint, *38=6w *75 J 1 63 >4-5 1*75 J 2-00 t 5,5 ladd two-thirds of the depth of the -50 =-T *81 2*25 2I0 2.251 single lap. -63=-0 *94 15 2-75 2-50 4 2275 >4-5 *75= -12 113J 325J 3 00J 325J * The Great Britain steam-ship. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGfT-IRON PLATES. 701 The figures 2, 1,5, 4'5, 6, 5, &c. in the preceding Table are Imultipliers for the diameter, length and distance of rivets, also for the quantity of lap allowed for the single and double joints. These multipliers may be considered as proportionals of the thicknesses of the plates to the diatmeter, length, distance of rivets, &c. For example, suppose we take three-eighth plates and required the proportionate parts of the strongest form of joint, it will be'375 X 2 = '750 diameter of rivet, 3 inch. '375 X 4 2= 1-688 length of rivet, 13 inch. '375 X 5 =I P875 distance between rivets, 13 inch. '375 X 5 =2063 quantity of lap, 2 inches. '375 X 51=3A438 quantity of lap for double joints, 3inches. 75, 168, 1P87, 2-06 and 3-43 are therefore the proportionate quantities necessary to form the strongest steamor water-tight joints on plates three-eighths of an inch thick. In the preceding pages I have endeavoured to investigate almost every circumnstance having a practical bearing on the question of the strength of rolled plates, and the best methods of uniting them together. In conclusion, I would venture a few remarks on the value and judicious use of this material, in its adaptation to shipbuilding, and other purposes to which it. may be successfully applied. It is not my intention to enter into the question as to whether wood or iron be the preferable material, as a number of circumstances, such as cost, durability, &c., must be considered in order to form a correct decision. I would however observe, that in ship-building alone, it appears from the facts already recorded, that iron is very superior in its powers of resistance to strain; it is highly ductile in its character, and easily moulded into any required form without impairing its strength. It is also stronger in combination than timber, arising from the nature of the construction, and the materials composing the itron ship become a homogeneous mass when united together, forming as it were a solid, without joints, and presenting as a whole the most formidable powers of resistance*. These are some of the properties which appear to distinguish iron from other materials, and which give it an ascendenev of com inbined action, which cannot be obtained in the union of timber however ingeniously cont rived. It moreover possesses the property of lightness along with strength in fact, its buoyancy, strength and durability constitute the elements of its utility in the innumerable cases to which it may be applied. In ship-building it possesses other advantages over timber. Its hull is flee frotm the * Since the above was written we have had many examples of the enormous strength of iron ships, and amongst others we may instance an iron vessel which took the ground with nearly one-half of her length at the stern hanging over a shelf for a whole tide; another, the Vanguard iron steamer, which for several hours (under the action of a heavy surf) was beating upon sharp shelving rocks without going to pieces; and lastly, the Great Britain steam-ship, which was stranded in Dundrum Bay, and resisted the force of the winter storms for mnany mnonths. 702 MR. FAIHBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY risk of fire; and in case of shipwreck, either on rocks or sand-banks, it will resist the heaviest sea, endure the severest concussion, and with proper attention to the construction, it may be the means of saving the lives of all on board. It moreover has the advantage of bulkheads, which, made perfectly water-tight, not only strengthen the vessel, but give greater security to it, and by a judicious arrangement in the divisions will float the ship under the adverse circumstance of a leak occurring in any one of the compartments. These are the qualities and powers of the iron ship; and I trust the present research into the strength and proportions of the material of which it is composed, will not only give increased confidence in its security, but will lead to an extension of its application in every branch of marine and mechanical architecture. PART HI. Resistance of Wrought-iron Plates to Pressure by a Blunt Instrument at right angles to the surface of the Plate. Irrespective of the experiments made to determine the strength of wroughbtiron plates and the relative strength of the joints by which they are united, the investigation would be incomplete if we omitted another inquiry of equal importance, namely, the resistance offered by plates to a crushing force, such as exhibited in the injuries received by vessels when stranded on rocks or taking the ground in harbours where the surfaces are uneven. Almost every person connected with nautical affairs is acquainted with the nature of the injuries received by timber-built vessels when placed in circumstances affecting their stability, or when resting on hard and unequal ground, such as frequently occurs in tidal harbours at low water. Such a position is attended with danger under every circumstance; and in order to determine the relative values of the two materials, wood and iron, it was considered desirable to institute a similar class of experimnents on both, and thus to afford the means of comparison between then. English oak, as the strongest and best material used for the construction of first class vessels was selected for this purpose, and the results obtained from both are given, under circumstances as nearly similar as the nature of the experiment would admit. They are as follows. In each of the experiments the plate las fastened upon a firame of cast iron, 1 foot square inside and 1 foot 6 inches outside, its breadth being 3 inches and thickness half an inch. The sides of the plates, when hot, were twisted round the frame, to which they were firmly bolted. The contraction, by cooling caused it to be very tight, and the force to burst it was applied in the centre. This was done in order that the force mi rht in some degree resemble that from a stone or other body with a blunt end pressing against the side or bottom of a vessel: a bolt of iron, terminating in a hemispheire 3 inches in diameter, had thus its rounded end pressed perpendicularly to the plate in the middle. Thle results are given inl the following Tables. 1? .TWh cP MDCGGL . PLVII Tp. 7e TABLE XVI 3mmre~ree7sr 4 ~ Beezmn eorte Mgz54 S rawe r ard 'zit of eant 64 is Weujht e-P -Rea-m 05 i Bem aM ffie psrfynn . 3W-~~Jdeaz altr tth8> etr. TABLE XVI!-v tW7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7777:-o,-em Y l Aw re Me z~erzmxzmJ~errt bezWc B. ,'m *r4Jr erii cr /1 en, ,4 e ex p se flit cBamt ore ZSxzerwwnt 37zzz cL~fiter ~ vwermenfo ;g~exit rd the ]en' uer l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL 'V7I ewz~ ' amiL/~ > t7F6 /7 _ TABLE XX I' llHew gebura r zt A76 A.~t of'B ftE Ans TABLE XIII 0 ~ ~~ k.,ff2 / it, a.,/ug i/dC/5t ~.7Yf AdqJe God v (2/ t. /rdzC/('rK r./ .,, -tv wv1 6,w& Mick ~~~~~~~~T inkAhiih , INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 703 TABLE XXII. Experiments to determine the Resistance of Plates of Wrought Iron to a force tending to burst them. No, Weight Permnanent Of Description of plates. laid on indentation Remarks. exp. in lbs. of plate. inch. 1. Plate of the best Staffordshire iron 8,617 3 Plate not cracked. X inch thick. 9,893 .35 Plate not cracked. 11,169 *5 Crack on convex side 8 inches long. 12,445 *6 Crack on convex side 9 inches long; not opened on concave side. 13,789 *7 Hole through the plate about 1 inch long, and W inch wide. 2. Plate of the same iron and the same 9,893 '25 Double crack on convex side 1 inch long. thickness. 11.,169 *34 Double crack increased. 12,445 .4 13,789 47 16,477 *6 Fornm of crack on convex side (I inch wide). 17,821 -65 Not cracked through. 19,769 ...... Cracked through. 3. Plate of the same iron -2 inch thick. 18,523 ...... No crack. 21,075 *33 Incipient crack on convex side. 22,787 *45 Crack above-mentioned 4 inches long, forming a cross. 25,923 *60 Crack above, 6 inches long. 29,059 *75 Crack above, 8 inch wide. 32,195 *80 35,331 .97 36,899 1 10 No crack on concave side. 37,519 ...... Plate cracked through. 4. Plate same as the last. 21,219 No crack. 21,985 *35 Slight crack on convex side. 27,708 -47 Form of crack on convex side. 31,796 *7 Form of crack increased. 33,431 .75 35,066 *83 Form of crack 4 inches deep. 36,701 -97 Not cracked through. 37,928 Cracked through. In Plate LVIII. figs. 13 and 14, will be found representations of the fractures of the plates experimented upon in this Table. From the above we obtain the strength of plates to resist rupture from pressure from a blunt body, or a ball 3 inches diameter. lbs. Mean. In experiment 1, a plate one-fourth of an inch thick was burst by 13,789 l In experiment 2, a plate one-fourth of an inch thick was burbst by 19,769551 77 In experiment 3, a plate half an inch thick was burst by . . . 37,519 } 3 In experiment 4, a plate half an inch thick was burst by .; . . 37,928 77 Here the strengths are as the depths; a half-inch plate requiring double the weight to produce fracture that had previously burst the quarter of an inch plate. In the succeeding experiments on oak timber, the powers of resistance follow the ratio of the squares of the depth, so that a wrought-iron plate of only one-quarter of an inch thick is able to resist a force equal to that required in the rupture of a 3-inch plank. The experiments were made upon good English oak, of different thicknesses, and of the same width as the iron plates. The specimens were laid upon solid planks, 12 inches asunder, and by the same apparatus the rounded end of the 3-inch pin was forced through them as follows: 704 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Resistance of planks of timber to the entrance of a ball, 3 inches diameter, the planks being laid upon props 12 inches asunder; the object of the experiments being to burst them by pressing a pin, terminated by a hemispherical end, 3 inches diameter, through the centre of the plank, as was done with the plates of iron. TABLE XIV. NO. Desesption of p . Weight Of Description of plank. sid on, Remarks. exp. lb. 1. English oak, very dry and good, 1 inches 16,115 Indentation from hemisphere inch deep; wod otherwise broad, and 2' inches deep. 17,235 uninjured. Hole through the middle, 3 inches diameter nealy broke out, all the rest remaining sound. 2. English oak, rather gen, 8 inches broad, 18,941 It bore 18,941 lbs. about ten minte s, and then exploded with 3 inches deep. violence, dividing into three parts, the middle one on which the pin rested being about an inch thick at the top, and I an inch at the bottom. With a ton less weight there was a crack under the plank in the centre, and an indentation by the pin 1 inch deep on the upper side. Sap was driven out from the ends on the side nearest to the heart. 3. English oak plank, and dimensions same as in 12,445 Sap driven out as in last experiment ; plank without crack; inlast experiment. 16,925 dentation by the pressure abut 1 inch. The plank split with beaing the pressure about ten minutes. 4. English oak from same plank as in experiment 4,532 The plank broke by splitting. 2 and 3; breadth 8 inches, depth 11 inch. 5. English oak from same plank and same sixe 4,280 Broke by splitting diagonally. as in the last experiment. Taking the results of the four last experiments, which were on pieces from the same plank, we obtainlbs. Mean. Strength from, planks 3 inches thick . . . . 18,941 Strength from planks 3 inches thick . . . . l6,9251 17933 Strength from planks 11 inch thick * . . . 4,532 4 Strength from planks 1Iinch thick . . . . 4,280 J Here the strength to resist crushing follows the ratio of the square of the depth, as is found to be the case in the transverse fracture of rectangular bodies of constant breadth and span. If we compare the foregoing results with the experiments performed by Mr. l-IODGKINSON on timber, it will be found that the strength of drv English oak to resist a crushing force is 4 24 tons to the square inch,' whereas wrought iron, according to RONDFLET, requires a pressurie of about 31 tons per square inch, and with thiss weight it is reduced about one-sixteenth of its length. The resistauce of wrought iron to a crushing force is therefore about seven and a quarter timnes greater than that of oak: and according to the experiments in the preceding Tables, it appeals that thle iesistance of wrought-iron plates to a force calculated to burst them, follows (l different law to that of oak, the resistance of the former being (irectly a.s the depth and of the latter as the square of the depth. ReasonDing from these facts, it ay be interesting to know that in the use of timber, such as tile oak shcathing' of ships, tile strength to cxINTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 705 ternal pressure increases in the ratio of the squares of its thickness; and, where great strength is required, it will be necessary, in the construction of vessels, to consider the nature of the service and the required thickness of the planks. The same remarks will apply to vessels constructed of iron, computed from the formula deduced from the experiments. In a table of experimental results by Mr. HODGKINSON we have the mean force per square inch required for crushing timber of different kinds; and assuming RONDELET'S experiments, which give 70,000 lbs. as the resistance per square inch of wrought iron, to be correct, we then have as the ratio of their respective powers of resistance as follows: TABLE XV. _ Description of ResistanceperResistance of Ratio, the wood Specific gravities., timber used. square inch. wrought iron per representing square inch. unity. lbs. lbs. 71700 Wrought iron ......... ...... 70,000 0'560 Yellow pine ............ 5375 70000 1 : 13-02 0'540 Cedar ....... 5674 70,000 1 : 12-33 0'580 Red deal .5748 70,000 1 12-16 0o640 Birch .................. 6402 70,000 1 10'93 0o660 Sycamore........ .. 7082 70,000 1 : 9.88 0-753 Spanish mahonany .. 8198 70,000 1 : 8-53 0-780 Ash ................3 70000 1: 806 0-700 Dry Ernglish oak ...... 9509 70,000 1: *736 0.980 Box ......... 9771 70,000 1 716 In addition to the relative resisting forces of the different kinds of timber above enumerated, will be found the specific gravities of each, which enables the reader to determine the comparative weights as well as strength of the different kinds of wood. PART IV. In the preceding researches I have endeavoured to determine the value of iron chiefly in reference to its application for the purposes of ship-building. It now only remains to determine the best form and condition of another part of the structure, namely, the frames and ribs of vessels, also composed of iron. Some of the forms experimented upon indicate weakness, but certain modifications which have since been introduced, have given increased support to the bilge and sides of the ship, and greater powers of resistance to the outer sheathing. The beam shown at fig . 19, Plate LVIII., is probably one of the strongest and most suitable for the support of the decks, but it is inadmissible as a frame for receiving the exterior sheathing plates. These frames are generally formed of a plate with angle-irons along the edges on both sides, of which the annexed sketch are sections. a, a, &C. Fig. 15. represents a portion of the outside plates; D b, b the angle-iron frames or ribs, which vary from 18 to A4 inches asunder, aci n i A b cording to the position in the direction 0 0 MDcCCL. 4 X 706 MR.' FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY of the length of the ship; c, c, angle-iron of the same strength is riveted along the edge of each rib for the purpose of stiffening the sides of the ship and giving increased resistance to those parts, also to receive interior plates, some of which, in large vessels, are riveted diagonally to the interior angle-irons c, c, &c., forming stringers and braces from the kelsons round the bilge to the upper decks. Other kinds of frames might be used with double Fig. 16. angle-iron, as shown at d, d, &c. in the annexed iCa sketch, but they are more expensive, and from the increased complexity of construction, the __ extra strength obtained does not compensate for a the difference of cost. Altogether, the frames recorded in fig. 15 have come into general use as the most effective and easy of construction. Those experimented upon were of different kinds, as shown in Plate LVIII. fig. 17, 18, &c., and in sections given in the Tables, and from which the following results were obtained: TABLE XVL. Experiments to ascertain the strengths of uniform wrought-iron beams of different forms to support the sides and other parts of vessels, the beams having their ends placed upon props and being loaded in the middle. Oak beams. Breaking wei ht of Weight of Side of Weight of No. WeghtDefietions the eam the beam square of such beanis of Deseription and form of the bean. laid on with th of 7 fet of 7 feet oheams of 7 feet arks. exp. middle, weights. betwee inches of equal 6 inches the suplone strength long and ports. with the specific iron one. gravity 900. I. Beam formed from two 2 angle-irons, bs. lb& lbs. inches. lbs. riveted together with rivets 6 inches asunder, and a plate a inch thick riveted to the back, with rivets 4 inches asunder. Distance between the supports 7 feet, and whole length 7 eet 6 inches, its weight being 109 lbs. .4.4 Thickness. , Ai.AB -5 inches. s .IIP bCD-2'6 inches. *, )Ijj aa *5 inch. 335 109 3-63214 8o The weight 3355 lbs. g v 'I Ik bb = '56 inch. was laid on at once, and . i cc 6-64 inch. the beam almost immedi94 t ee = '25 inch. ately sunk uwith it ; a The part C was downwards during the weight something less experiment, the weight being laid upon would have done it. the part D. l 2. The beam lst used, cut in two; di4,039 18 stance between supports 2feet 3inches ; 5,383 '30 vertical rib downwards, that it might 6,055 43 be stretched as before; weight of 3 6,721 '64 feet 9 inches =541bs. 7,399 '88 sunk . ...... 2486 109 3'287 31'S With 773.; lbs. it sunk, by stretching and tearing at a rivet-hole. 3. The other half of the beam (exp. 1.) 4,4139 "17 cut in two. Distance between the sup5,3 .23 ports 2 feet 3 inches; weight of 3 feet 6,055 '26 9 inches = 55 lbs.; vertical rib upwards ,727 '34 thus, 1 that fracture might take place 7,399 47. by the compression of that rib. 8,071 '63 . st~~~~~~~9415 1'10 . 10,087 1 95 10,7B 90 0sunk 3 . . 3458 109 3*66X2 39'*44 W0ith 10,7591bs. it sunk; J ~~~~~~~~~~~~he vertical rib becoming twisted. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 707 All the beams experimented upon in the foregoing Table are shown in view and in section, Plate LVIII. figs; 17 and 18. In the first experiment the beam was 7 feet between the supports, but having yielded to the first weight, 3355 lbs., laid on, it was subsequently cut in two, as shown in the drawings above referred to. In experiment 2, it will be observed that a frame of this form is weak, arising from the deficiency of material on the lower side of the rib formed by angle-iron, which, yielding to a tensile strain, becomes elongated in the act of bending, and would thus deflect through a considerable space before actual fracture took place. Reversing the other part of the beam with the broad flange downwards it carried more weight, but ultimately sunk under a load of 10,759 lbs., being in the ratio of 10: 7 in favour of the beam with the rib upwards. These experiments, when reduced to 7 feet between the supports, gave nearly the same proportion, viz. nearly as 34 : 24. They are however all weak, arising almost exclusively from want of material on the top edge of the ribs, and a due proportion in the construction of the beam. TABLE XVII. Experiments on Wrought-iron Beanms (continued). Oak beams. Breaking weit It of Weight of Side of Wei ht of No. tWeight Deflections the am t e bea n aunre of such ams of Deseription and form of the beam. laid on with these of 7 feet of 7 feet o heams of 7 feet Remarks. exp. middle. weights. hetween 6 inches of equ 6 inches the suplong. stren h long and ports. with the specific iron one. gravity 90. lbs. lhs. lbs. inches. lha. 4. Beam differing from that in exp. 1 38355 '40 After bearing the weight only in being of greater strength, this 4,711 *62 7399 lbs. a short time th beam being formed of two 3-inch angle. 5,383 '82 beam became cracked at a irons, riveted as before to a plate a 5,719 98 rivet-hole and sunk. From . i-inch thick, Distance between the 6,055 1-12 the experiments of BuF supports 7 feet; weight of the beam 6,391 1-30 FON upon green oak, the 7 feet 6 inches long, 1671 lbs.; ver6,727 1-87 side of a square beam of tical rib downwardsT 1-92 equal strength would be 7,068 2-29 4-558 inches, and its 7,399 3-25 7399 167-5 4-7281 65 49 weight 708 lbs. 5. Half the beam used in exp. 4, now 4,039 0-85 3 feet 9 inches long, and weighing 82' 7,399 0-25 lbs. Distance between supports 3 feet 10,759 0-43 6 inches; vertical rib downwads. 11,431 0-53 12,108 0-65 r broke at 12,439 A a rivet. 6219 1675 4-462 hole. 6. The other half of the beam in exp. 4, 8,304 0-12 weighing 5lbs.; length 3feet 6 inches. 12,892 0-24 Distance between the supports 2 feet 16,480 0-75 3 inches; rib upwards J rsnk, the 18,115 vrmic1d J5823 1675 4-3653 55-83 twisted. The whole of the experiments herein recorded are of the same description as the last, with the exception of the beamn being composed of thicker angle-iron, and consequently rendered much stiffer and stronger than those first experimented upon. This ci-ceased stiffness reversed the resisting powers of the beam, whden taken at a 7-feet 4 x2 708 MR. FAIRBAIRN!S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY span, in the ratio of 6 5 in favour of the first position with the rib downwards. For plans and sections of these beams see Plate LVIII. fig. 18. TABLE XVIII. Experiments on Wrought-iron Beams (continued). Oak beams. Brealking weight of Weight of Side of Weight of No. Weight Iefleetions the beam the bem square of such beams Of Des nption and form of the beam, laid o n with thee of 7 7 feet oak beams of 7 feet emarks, exp. middle. weights. between 6 inches the suplong. strength lo ig and ports. Nith the specific iron one. gravity90. lbs. lbs. lbs. inches. lbs. 7. Solid wrought-iron beam, 4 feet 1394 J135 2 inches long, weighing 23 lbs., placed 1932 '24 upon props 4 feet asunder; vertical 2470 .59 rib pypwards. 2739 90 Form and dimension of section. 3008 135 1790 41'4 2'9461 25'43 With 3008 lbs. the elasA Thickness at ticity was entirely destroycrg I =a 24 ed, and a like additional b '29 weight would have de/ (J exit d. c -41 stroyed the form of the cd '36 beam. / II AB=2'50 B CD*-i2'85 8. Same beam rendered stra'ght, and 1394 '17 turned with its rib downwards T' 19327 ' 2470 '*3f 2739 122 3008 2-20 3142 sunk 1870 41'4 2 9894 26'18 9. Solid beam, same form as before; 1394 '30 length 5 feet n inch; weight 254 lbs. 1932 '36 Distance between supports 4 feet; rib 1526 1.19 upwards thus. See fig. to experiment 7. 2201 1 59 Thickness at 2335 2'04 After beating the weight, a '23 inafew' 2'13 1334 37-6 I2 1 20'90 2335lbs., it had taken a ' a30 minutesj Ipermanent set, or fexure K X e _ *40 . -71 inch, and would a d d -i '33 have sunk more if it had ' D AB=2'05 not been unloaded. CD =2-95 10. Same beam rendered straight and 1394 '27 turned upside down thus T. Distance 1932 51 between supports 4 feet. 2201 1'01 23351 1'57 in ami1'0 nute 2 S-0 2469 ... 1411 37., 2'721 21i0 After bearing 2469 lbs. it was unloaded, as a little additional weight would have destroyed its form. . ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... The experiments in this Table were made on solid T iron, andl indicate nearly the same proportions, as respects their strength, as the beams composed of a plate and double angle-iton riveted together. The whole of these beams appear to be defective in form, and are therefore. not calculated to sustain a severe tratsverse strain. To attain the section of greatest strength, it is probable a different form would be required, as well as a different proportion of the parts, such as in the annexed figure with a double flange*. * Since the experiments herein recorded were made, others have been instituted on some deck-beams by Mr. KENNEDY of Messrs. BuRY, CuRTis and KENNED Y, Liverpool, the particulars of which are inserted in the Appendix. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 709 TABLE XIX. Experiments on Wrought-iron Beams (continued). Oak beams. Breaking weight of Weight of Side of Weight of No. Weight Defleetions the beam the beam square of such beams of Description and form of the beam. laid on with these of 7 feet of 7 feet oak beams of 7 feet Remarks. exp. middle. weights. between 6 inches of equal 6 inches the suplong. strength long and ports. with the specific iron one. gravity goo. lbs. lbs. lbs. inches. lbs. 11. Beam of wrought iron, formed of 4,195 075 two bars (nearly equal), whose section 7,465 0148 is riveted together; length of the beam 10,735 0-22 4 feet 2 inches; its weight 44 lbs. 5 oz. 10,735 ...... ..... ...... ...... Afterbearingtheweight Distance between the supports 4 feet. laid on 10,735 lbs., the beam had Dimensions of section. again. taken a set = 06. Pieces AB=2-86 inches. j r 14,005 0 24 8336 79176 4-9199 70 91 of woodweredriventightly Mean thickness of D 4broke in between the ribs AB, AB= 33 inch.' CD, at each side of the EF =370 inches. beam in the middle, to preA// //B vent theloadlaidonitthere from deranging its form. The beam broke by the bottom rib being torn asunder, preceded by one of the bars cracking at a rivet-hole. The above is probably the strongest form of beam, if duly proportioned, by adapting the material to a balance of the two opposing forces of extension and compressoon. TABLE XX. Experiments on Wrought-iron Beams (continued). Oak beams. Breaking weight of Weight of Side of Weight of No. Weight Deflections the beam the beam square of such beams of Description and form of the beam. laid on with these of 7 feet of 7 feet oak beams of 7 feet Remarks. exp. middle. weights. between 6 inches of equal 6 inches the suplong. strength long and ports. with the specific iron one. gravity 900. lbs. lbs. lbs. inches. lbs. 12. Beam of wrought iron composed of 4,216 10 an uniform vertical rib (7 inches deep 8,304 18 and 7feet 6 inches long) withtwo 2-inch 16,480 25 angle-irons riveted to both top and 18,667 *36 bottom of the rib; rivets 4 inches 22,027 52 asunder; weight of beam 161' lbs. in five Distance between the supports 7 feet. minutes J , Dimensions of section. 24,379 sunk ...... ...... ...... ...... With the weight 24,379 CD=7 inches. lbs. the top ribs of the AB =4 5 inches. beam became twisted. EF =4-5 inches. Mean thickness of AB= -28 inch. EF=-30 inch. Plate GH-=25. 13. Same beam rendered straight and 16,115 *29 The beam 'was heated uniform; experiment 12 repeated. 18,355 *36 by the smiths, and when 19,475 "42 reducedto its originalform, 20,595, *51 it was allowed to cool gradually. 21,715 sunk 21,715 161k 617695 134'26 With 21,715 lbs. it became bent, towards the wall, in adirection inwhich it was slightly drawn by the lever; ribs not twisted as before. It bore the weight a minute or two before Sgiving way. 710 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY This experiment shows the superior quality of wrought-iron beams in giving timely notice before fracture; it further exhibits weakness on the top sides of the beams, a circumstance requiring great attention in their construction, which in some recent experiments, instituted for attaining the section of greatest strength, have been strikingly developed*. In the preceding experiments, we have endeavoured to compare the strengths, as well as the weights of the beams or frames which form the ribs of ships. As regards the strengths with equal weights, it is in favour of oak; but the circunistance of the fastenings by rivets in the sheathing being so much superior to those of timber, the iron ship-builder is enabled to dispense with one-half the number of frames, and consequently a great reduction of weight is effected and more strength obtained in the vessel as a whole, than could possibly be accomplished in the timber-built ship, however ingenious the construction or the arrangement and distribution of the material. The very act of caulking the joints of a wooden vessel has a tendency to loosen the fastenings, whereas, in the iron ship, there are no actual joints, for the whole being bound together en masse, the same, or nearly the same, strength is obtained as if the whole ship were composed of solid plates and ribs. The best sectional form of beams for the decks of ships is probably that exhibited in Table XX., which, along with the box beam of the annexed form for supporting the shafts and paddle-boxes of steamers, is that generally used in the construction of vessels of this description. Other forms have been adopted, particularly those suggested by Mr. KENNEDY of Liverpool, alluded to in the Appendix. . Having carefully investigated the different properties of wrought iron in its varied forms of construction, and conceiving that the results obtained from the experiments may be useful in a variety of circumstances connected with the useful arts, I have endeavoured to collect them in the abstract, in order that the practical builder and engineer may the more readily ascertain the comparative value of the different forms of beams, the properties of the material, and their adaptation to any particular construction in which he may be engaged. Should further information be required, we must then refer to the experiments, in which will be found the facts more in detail, and which are probably better calculated to satisfy the inquiring mind and to effect that conviction essential to success. I have not attempted any inquiry into the laws of oxidation, the adhesion of barnacles and marine vegetation, and the means necessary to prevent such evils. This is a subject which does not come within the province of the present inquiry, and more properly belongs to that of the chemist. I would however briefly notice, that in the whole of my experience I have had little to complain of from the effects of oxidation, as that destructive process, as regards iron, appears to be greatly mitigated, if not almost suspended, by constant use, and under the influence of vibratory action the operation appears to be rendered nugatory, if it does not entirely cease, and that * See my work on the Construction of' the Britannia and Conuway Tubular Bridges. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 711 under circumstances exceedingly difficult to explain. This is an investigation not unworthy the attention of somle of our best chemists, to whom the causes may be known, but which are at present, as far as I know, unaccounted for. For example, I may mention that an iron ship, if kept constantly in use, or nearly so, will last for a number of years exposed to all the changes of weather and temperature without any sensible appearance of decay. The same may be said of iron rails, over which are passing daily such enormous weights, and at such velocities as almost to neutralize the action of the elements. All these are striking examples of the durability of wrought iron, which may be considered as an important element of its security, and a recommendation for its extended application. There is another circumstance in connection with this subject to which it may be necessary in this place to advert, and that is the effect which a long continuance in salt water has upon the hull of an iron ship. It is well known that a long immersion of cast iron in the sea will convert it into plumbago, and that a similar process with malleable iron, from its contact with the saline particles of the ocean, produces oxidation; and in case the immersions were long continued, the effects of this destructive process might endanger the safety of the ship. As yet we have not had sufficient evidence of its effects to enable us to come to any definite conclusion, but it is not improbable that an occasional visit to harbours of fresh water may mitigate, if it does not entirely neutralize, the injurious effects which the material is likely to sustain. With these observations, which I offer with diffidence, I now beg to direct attention to the abstracts as deduced from the experiments. Abstract of Results as obtainedfrom the experiments. In Part I. of this inquiry we have endeavoured to show that 50,000lbs. per square inch is the mean breaking weight of iron plates, whether torn asunder in the direction of the fibre or across it; and we have also shown that the tensile strength of different kinds of timber drawn in the direction of the fibre varies in a given ratio to that of iron: the timber in this comparison being represented by unity, we have the following ratio of strength:Timber: Iron. Ash as.1 : 2'94 Teak as 1 : 3.33 Fir as .....1 : 4-16 Beech as I : 4.34 Oak as. . . . . 1 : 500 These, for practical purposes, may be taken as a fair measure of the strength of the different woods as compared with that of iron plates. It has been shown that wrought-iron plates, when riveted together, lose a considerable portion of their strength, as mav be seen by the experiments in Part IV., where the plates, by their union with each other, lose by the ordinary process of riveting 44 per cent., and by the best mode of riveting 30 per cent. This should not however 712 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY create serious alarm, as the loss of strength is almost entirely obviated by the new process of riveting used in the bottom of the Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges*; and it should also be observed that in timber the same injuries are sustained by splicing or any other method of forming the joints as are here exhibited in the riveting of iron plates. The two processes, that of riveting (according to the method used in the experiments) and splicing, when intended to resist a tensile strain, must therefore be considered analogous, and the comparison under such circumstances will nearly follow the same law as regards a diminution of strength. In this section of the inquiry the results obtained from the experiments indicate a loss in the joints as compared with the solid plate, as the numbers 100, 70 and 56, ViZ.For the solid plate .100 For the double-riveted joint . . . 70 For the single-riveted joint . . . 56 which numbers may be considered as a fair average value of the strengths of the different parts of vessels constructed in this manner. Part V. exhibits the strength of plates to resist vertical pressure from a blunt instrument, which was forced through them for the purpose of ascertaining their comparative powers of resistance with oak timber, placed under circumstances precisely similar and subjected to the same force. The results are interesting, as the iron plates appear to follow a different law in their resistance to pressure to that of oak, the strength being as the depth or thickness of the plates in the first case, and as the squares of the depth in the second. The resistances are'therefore ill the ratio of 1 : 12, the iron being 12 times stronger than oak. In Part IV. we have some curious facts illustrative of the necessity and value of experimental research. In the earlier experiments of the inquiry it is evident, that angle and T iron beams or frames are not the best, as regards form, to resist a transverse strain. In every case they are weak, and although exceedingly useful, and in fact indispensable for many purposes of construction, they are nevertheless not calculated to resist strain in the form of beams or girders. These defects I have endeavoured to obviate by the introduction of beams with double flanges formed of a body plate and riveted angle-irons at the top and bottoin. All these latter constructions may however be left with safety to the practical engineer+. The strengths of nearly the whole of these beams have been mathematically investigated by Mr. TATE, to whose friendship and analytical research I am indebted for the annexed mathematical inquiry into the different forms of the wrought-iron beams which have been experimented upon. To the mathematician this part of the subject will be the more interesting, as the utmost care has been observed in the measurements * See my process of chain-riveting as exhibited in the lower sides of the Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges, where the injuries above enumerated are entirely obviated. 1For a more elaborate inquiry into the strengths of wrought-iron beams, see my work on the Britannia and Conway Bridges. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 713 and exact proportions of the parts, in order to obtain the necessary formula for calculating the strength of beams and frames of this description. FORMULAS RELATIVE TO THE BEAMS IN THE FOREGOING EXPERIMENTS. Beams with a Single Flanch. Let ABF be a section of a beam having a single flanch ABkh, tfle material being symmetrically distributed with respect to the a vertical line EF. Let hacd and DFC be parallel to AB; cr and kdC parallel toEF. Put EB=EA=e, CB=DA=e, ac=Fr t, Bkz=Ag=t1, Ea= Bd=t, Fe=Fn=t, ,area section ABcenhg A, and the distance of the centre of gravity of this section from the edge ne=X. Tofind the Position of the Neutral Axis. Assuming the material to be perfectly elastic, the neutral axis will be ini the centre of gravity of the section. Hence we have, by calculating the moments with respect to the line DC, A XX= ee2,-(e,-t,)'(e-t)-3 (el-t2)2 (t -t3) -(e-t) (t2 tl) 1e-d t2-3 ti I 3ee2-(el-t2) (3e-2t-t3)-(e-t) (t2--tI)(3e12t-t1).(1 which expresses the distance of the neutral axis from the edge ne, where A=(t t3)(e,-t2) +(t +t2)(e-t)+2tt2.(2.) To find the Moments of Rupture. Let I the moment of inertia of the section about the neutral axis. I1= the moment of inertia of the section about DC. W= the breaking weight of the beam. 1= the distance between the supports. S= the force per square inch of the material opposed to extension or compression, as the case may be, at the thin edge of the beam. Taking DC as the axis,I, = moment inertia ABCD-2 moment inertia rCdc'-2 moment inertia erc-2 moment inertia cdk. Now, moment inertia ABCD= ee', 2 moment inertia rCdc= (e-t)(el-t2)3 2 moment inertia erc= 6(t-A) (e,-t,)3, 2 moment inertia cdk= 6(e.-t) {(e, -.t1)-3(e,--t )'+(e1-.t1)(e,-.t2)(2e1-.t -.t2)}. MDCCCL.4 714 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Substituting these values and reducing, we find IE='j [4eel-(e,-t2)'(e-t,)-(e-t)(e,-tl){ (e,-t,)2+ (e1-t2) (2e--t -t2) t... . (3.) Also (MOSELEY's Engineering, p. 82) we have I = I1,AX'. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4.) Moreover, by the formula of rupture, WI' SI WLX) 4T Taking the data of Table XVI., we have e=2'5, e,=2'6, t='32, t4=35, t3'*25, t2='42; therefore, by equation (2.), A=('32+'25)(2'6-42)+('35+'42)(2'5-'32)+2X '32X X42=3'19. By equation (1.), X= {3 X 2'5 X 2.62 _(2.6 42)2(7.5 '64'25) (2'5-32) X(-42-'35)(7'8-'84-'35)j} . 3X3'19=1'91, whicl is the distance of the neutral axis from the edge ne of the beam. By equation (3.), I=6 [4 X 2'5 X 2'6 (2'6-'42)3(2'5-'25) (2'5 -'32) (2'6-'35) x k X {(2-6--35 )2+(2-6--42)(5 2 -35--42)}] 13-375. By equation (4.), I= 13'375-3'19X 1.912=1.738. By equation (5.), 1.91 1'91 S=Wlx 4 lx738bs.=Wlx 5568 tons. Tn experiment 1, W=3409, 1=7x 12=84, 3409 x 84 x 1'91 8 356 5 --toils. 15568 Let XI= the distance of the neutral axis from the edges AB, and S.= the force per square inch opposed to extension or comnpression, as the case may be, at the edge AB, then X1 2'6 -1'91 =69, ~X '69 x35 and S=-. S= --12-6tons. 1'91In experiment 2, W=7735+18=7753, and 1=27, 7753 x27 x1 91 S -s15568 256 tons, and ~ ~ ~ ~ '9x2~15'68 os INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 715 In experiment 3, W= 10759+18=10777, 1=27, . = 177727x 1,96 =35 tons, and S1 =12,6 tons. Taking the data of Table XVIII., experiments 7 and 8, e=1,425, el=2,5, t= 2, tj= 36, t2 =4, t,=-12. Hence we find from. equation (2.), A=1V762; from equation (1.), X=1-86, and xi= X125186= 64; from equation (3.), I1=6-943; and from equations (4.) and (5.), S=WlX 00021 tons. In experiment 7, W=3008+1 1 =3019, 1=48, S=3019X48XO00021=304 tons, *.64 x30-4 and S1= 6 =104 tons In experiment 8, W=3142XI 1=3153, 1=48, 8=3153 X 48 X 0002 l31?7 tons, and S1= 186 =109 tons. Observations.-The value of S determined from experiment 1, is the resistance of the material to extension, whereas the value of S determined from experiment 3, is the resistance to compression. Hence it appears, that in beams of this form. and thickness of plates the resistance to extension is equal to that of compression. The same observation applies to the values of S determined from experiments 7 and 8; and the same law also holds true for experiments 9 and 10. These calculations further show, that the material in these beams is not properly distributed, for while the thin side of the beam is about to undergo rupture, the broad side has not attained one-half of the tension or compression, as the case may be, which it is capable of sustaining. It will also be observed, that the resistance of the material atthe thin side, as indicated by these calculations, is greater than what it would be under ordinary circumstances, viz. about 25 tons per square inch. This apparent discrepancy may be explained as follows :-as a beam of wrought iron approaches the limit of tension it un(lergoes an accelerated rate of elongation, even while the cohesion of the material remains unimpaired*. Now this unusual extension of the particles in the lower laminge (in a beam having a single flanch placed upwards) allows a succession of particles in the higher lamina to come into full tensile strain, so that the particles at the lower edge of the beam apparently attain a tensile strain greater than they would have under ordinary circumstances. And it may be presumed, that a similar law obtains in reference to the compression of wrought-iron beams. Hence it follows, that all calculations which assume the tensile or compressive forces, in beams of this form, at the edges of the beam equal to what they are under ordinary circumstances, mu-st lead to erroneous results.* See remarks on experiment 2, p. 720.4 y 2 716 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY It may be further worthy of remark, that experiments 2 and 3, 8 and 7, show that when the flanches of the beams are placed upwards the deflections are considerably greater than what they are when the flanches are placed downwards; thus in experiments 2 and 3 we have Weight on the beams. Deflections when the flanch is Deflections when the flanch is upwards. downwards. lbs. inch. inch. 6055 .43 *26 6727 s68 34 7399 88 I47 and in experiments 8 and 7, 2470 *66 *59 2739 1P22 90 3008 2-20 1-35 Beams with a Double Flanch. Let ABFE be a section of a beam having two flanches ABba and EFfe formed bv angle-irons riveted to a vertical plate CD, the material A c being symmetrically distributed with respect to the vertical line CD. Let 0 be the neutral axis, and KVG a line passing through the centre V of the vertical line , CD parallel to AB or EF. Put A= the area of the seetion of the material, A= area ABFE or 2 area ABGK, F A2=2 area mjsi, A =2 area jgbG, a2 2 area mjqv, a,=2 areajwfG, Di=GB=GF, D2=,j, D,=bG, d2=jq, d,=fG, X=OV, 1,= moment of inertia about KG, I= moment of inertia about O., W= the breaking upon the e centre of the beam, 1= the distance of the supports, F :D S, SI= the resistance of the material per square inch at the edges EF and AB respectively. To find the Neutral Avis. Taking KG as the axis of moments, AxX= (A2D2+A3D -a2d2-a~d,), X 3A2DQ+A3lz7a2d2asd3.. . . (6.) where A=A1-A2-A3 a2-a3. * . . (7.) To find the Moments of Rupture, 8fC. Taking the moments of inertia with respect to the line KG, I = moment inertia ABFE-2 moment inertia space bgsilqf =(A1DS-A2D22AD23a2d2-2_a3d3). . . . . . . . . . (8.), INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 717 I=I1-AX2. (9.) WlAV(DI X) (10.) 8= 41 . and ~ ~ ~ S-(1 ) = . . . . . (IlO.j and i(Dl-X)* . .X If a2=A2, a3=A3, then X=0, 11=1, and I = {AAID -2A2D2-2A3D}2 . =WID1 4 1 *4WID 3WID, 1 4{A1D~~~-2A2D~~-2AD~~}.(12.) 4JAID21-2A2D22A3D 23}**@@@ andW 48s(AID -2A2D2_2A3D3) and 31D,(13.) which expresses the breaking weight when S is given. Let D1, D2, ..., A', A1, ... &c. be the corresponding dimensions of a beam in all respects similar, and let r be the ratio of the linear dimensions, then D=rD,, &c., A'' 2Aj, &c., AM'D' r3A2D2, &c., A'D r4AID 2, &c. By equation (6.), A2D2 + A/D/ -4ad22A' r3AAD2 + r3A3D -r3a2d2 -r3a3d8 2r-A A2D2A3D8-a2d22-a3d3 -rX 2A =rXX. By equation (8.), -1 jA1D AD '2A3D32_ a-dd ad = r4 X 3JAIDI -A2D2 A3D23 2d2 a3d3} =r4 X I. By equation (11.), 41 II(D'-X') 4S x r4 -rl(rD1 -rX) 2 4S1 = (D,-X) By q.(14n(1.)) 718 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTI'AL INQUIRY That is, THE BREAKING WEIGHTS IN SIMILAR BEAMS ARE TO BACH OTHER AS THE SQUARES OF THEIR LIKE LINEAR DIMENSIONS. The method of demonstration here used in establishing this important theorem nay be applied to any other form of beam. When the sections of the beams are similar, but the distance between the supports any quantity 11, then we have W I=r2W . . * * * * * * * * * * * (15) Suppose W in equation (11.) to be determined by experiment, then we are at liberty to assume AdC where d is the depth of the beam, and C a constant determined by the assumed relation. Fro-n equation (14.), W'=r2W 2AdC r. r2A .rd. C ri A'd'C (16.) That is, THE BREAKING WEIGHTS IN BEAMS ARE FOUND BY MULTIPLYING TOGETHER THE AREA OF THE SECTION, THE DEPTH, AND A CONSTANT DETERMINED FROM EXPERIMENT ON BEAMS OF THE PARTICULAR FORM, AND DIVIDING THIS PRODUCT BY THE DISTANCE BETWEEN THE SUPPORTS. The value of I' in this formula is not restricted to the condition of similarity. In experiment 12, D=-3s5,D2= 1-375, D,=3-22, d2= 1-375, d,=3"2,W=24380+80=24460, 1=84, A,=4 5 X 7=31*5, A2=1-375 X *28 X 2=-7, A3=3-22 X 1845 X 2=118818, a2-1-375 X *3 X 2=-75, a,=3 2 X P825 X 2=1 ]168, A-=A-A2A3-a -a =325-25-01 =6-48, by equation (6.), X='061 1. By equation (8.), I_-46'782, By equation (9.), I=46782-6-48 X 061 1 2=46.758. By equation (10.), 24460 x 84 (3-5 -*061 1)=17tnnery 4 x 46758 x 2240 17 tons nearly, andi Si= 171 tons nearly. In experiment 13, W-21715+80=21800 nearly, as 21800 x 84(35 + ?0611) and SK4 x 46'7854 x 2240 =5 5 tons, S )2I0 x 84(3 5A 611) 4 x4647854 x22v4 =15a tons. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 719 The values of S and S1, as determined by these calculations, being less for the beam in experiment 13 than they are for the beam in experiment 12, it follows that the latter has a better distribution of the material than the former. And at the same time the difference of the value of these constants is so small as to lead us to infer that the form of the beam in experiment 12 approaches to that of maximum strength with a given quantity of material. The sectional areas of the top and bottom flanches are to each other as 28 30 or 14 15, which is very nearly a ratio of equality. APPENDIX. Experiments by THOMAS LOYD, Esq., Inspector of Machinery, to ascertain the effect of a tensile strain upon bars of wrought iron under varied conditions. Twenty pieces of 18 SC Wr bar iron, each 10 feet long, were cut out of the middle of twenty rods of iron. These 10-feet lengths were cut into two parts of 5 feet each, and marked with the same letter. A, B, C, &c. wefee first br-oken so as to get the average breaking strain. A' B2, C2 were subjected to the constant action of three-fourths of the breaking weighit for five minutes. The load was then taken off, and they were afterwards broken. It will be seen that the breaking strain was about the same as before, thus proving that the previous strain had not weakened them. Experiment 1. First. Second. Mark o DimesionsBreaking Ultimate Breaking Mark on |Dimensiols Bweight elongation Mark on Dimensions weight Ultimate elongation of bars in the bars. of the bars. in tons. of bar in the bars. of the bars. in tons. inches with 25 tons. inches. A. 1.37 33*75 9.12 A 2. ...... 33.75 1.56 B. 1-37 300() 9J12 B 2. ...... 3300 1i61 C. 1-37 33.25 9*75 C 2. ...... 33-25 1?56 D. 1 37 32175 9-22 D 2. ...... 32o25 1-75 E. 1F37 32-50 9*22 E 2. ..... 32'50 1*75 F. 137 33*25 10.50 F 2 ...... 3300 i5,6 G. 1.37 32,75 8-50 G 2. ...... 33-00 1-6i H. 1F37 33-25 10*61 H 2. ...... 33-50 1.50 I. 1P37 3350 8.37 I 2. ...... 32175 1*67 J. 1P37 3350 9*22 J 2. 33-25 1 67 K. i 37 32-25 8.00 K 2. ...... 32-50 1P86 L. P 1-37 32-25 7 50 L 2. ...... 31P50 200 M. 1*37 30-25 9-i2 M 2. ..... . 32175 Broke mark 1-75 in s. e. N. 1-37 34-25 9*22 N 2. ...... 34300 1412 0. 1P37 31-75 761 0 2. ...... 32*50 1P75 P. 1P37 2975 1000 P 2. ...... 3P100 1-75 Q. P37 33-50 9-22 Q. ...... 2 3375 1.50 R. 1-37 33175 9*75 It 2. ...... 33375 1i.56 S. 1P37 33-00 9.12 S 2. ...... 33'25 1P12 T. 1-37 32-25 8'75 T 2. ..... 31-00 2'18 Mean.3287 . . 3281 i64 720 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY In the first columns of the experiments it will be observed that the force required to break the bars was 32-37 tons, with a mean stretch of 9 inches upon twenty bars. In the second column the mean of the elongations, with a strain of 25 tons, was only 16 inch, whereas the ultimate breaking strain was 32'8 tonis, evidently showing an increase instead of a diminution of strength from the previous strain of 25 tons, to which the bars had been -respectively subjected. Experiments made in the testing-machine of Woolwich Dockyard to ascertain the effect upon iron-bolt staves or iron bars to a tensile strain. The following results show the strains required for each of four successive breakages of the same pieces of iron as in the first experiment, IIths of an inch diameter S C r. Experiment 2. First breakage. Second breakage. Third breakage. Fourth breakage. Distinguishing Stretch in Stretch in Stretch in Stretch in Redueed mark. Tons. 54 inches. Tons. 36 inches. Tons. 24 inches. Tons. 15 inches. from 1.37 to in. in in. in. in. A. 33 75 9.125 35.5 2*00 C. 33-75 9.250 35.25 *25 37'00 1*00 3875 ...... 1*25 E. 32'5 9'250 34-75 1'25 F. 33-25 10'500 35'50 1'12 37-25 '62 '40 ...... 1.18 G. 32175 8' 00 35'00 1'25 37'5 ...... 41 ...... 1'25 H. 33-75 10'625 36'25 1087 I. 33-50 8'375 34-50 62 36'5 1.50 J. 33'50 9'250 36'00 *25 36-75 1-120 41 75 ...... 1.2 L. 32'25 Detective 36'50 15' 37.75 ..-. 41'00 *31 1' 5 M. 30-25 Defective 36'50 *62 37-75 '06 38'50 |o6 1| 5 Mean ......... 3292 3557 ...... 3721 . ...... 4016 ...... P124 Mean per square } 23'94 |... 25*s6 ...... 27-0 ...... 29-20 |.,.| 90 inch. f 25'86 27.0 _ '90.... The results of the above experiments are highly interesting, as they not only confirm those previously made, but they indicate a progressive increase of strength, notwithstanding the reduced sectional area of the bars. These interesting facts are of considerable value, as they show that a severe tensile strain is not injurious to the bearing powers of wrought iron even when repeated to the extent of four times. In practice it may not be prudent to test bars and chains to their utmost limit of resistance ; it is however satisfactory to know that in cases of emergency those limits may be approached without incurring serious risk of injury to the ultimate strength of the material. It is further important to observe, that the elongations are not in proportion to the forces of extension; thus in the bar F, experiment 2, the elongation of a bar 54 inches long with 33*25 tons, is 10't inches, giving an elongation per unit of weight and 10alength =33.25 x5 -*'0058; whereas an additional weight of 2'25 tons produces an INTO :THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 721 elongation of 1-25 inch in 36 inches length of bar, giving an elongation per unit of 1925 weight and length=205 X3= 0154; that is, the elongation in this latter case is about three times that in the former. Experiments mnade to ascertain whether a shorter bar of iron is stronger than a longer one of the same kind and size, 1jths of an inch diameter, SC X8. Experiment 3. Length between the nippers 10 feet. DistinStretch Breaking Reduced at To elseguishing in 10 feet. strain. Mean. fracture. where. Remarks. mark. in. tons. tons. in. in. 1. 26-00 33-00 1 1-25 1 2. 26-75 31-75 ...... . 1 3. 26-25 32-25 ...... 1.25 i.400 32600?3252} ... ... ,.1l >Mean of elongation 26 inches. 5. 27 50 32-25 B. B. 6. 26-75 32 00 1 -o06 Experiment 4. Length between the nippers 42 inches. Distinl Stretch in Breaking Reduced at To elseguishing 42 inches. strain. Mean. fracture. where. Remarks. mark. _ ___ in. tons. tons. in. in. B. 9-50 32-50 i*06 1-25 B. 9-37 33 00 B. ....... B. 10325 31-750 B32 125 . B. Mean of elongation 9-8 inches. B. 8-62 32-00 1-06 F. B. 8-87 32-00 F. F. Expetirient 5. Length between the nippers 36 inches. DistinStretch in Breaking Reduced at To elseguishing 36 inches. strain. Mean. fracture. where. Remarks. mark. in. tons. tons. ill. in. A. 8-50 32-25 1 i 06 1-25 _ A. 8-75 32-25 j l B. A. 9-00 31-25 F. B A. 9 12 31-50 32 25 ...... Mean of elongation 8-8 inches. A. 9-37 33-50 B. B l A. 8-87 33-25 B. B. MDCCCL. 4z 722 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Experiment 6. Length between the nippers 24 inches. DistinStretch in Breaking Reduced at To elseguishing 2 feet. strain. Mean. fracture. where. Remarks. mark. in. tons. tons. in. C 1. 6-00 31-75 l 125 C 2. 6-62 31'50 j 1i06 B. F. C 3. | 6 12 312'50 |. }32 00 of elongation 6-2 inches. C 4. 6-12 31-75 C. 6'00. 32'25 j Mel C. 6'37 32 25 ...... B. Experiment 7. Length between the nippers 10 inches. Distin. Stretch in Breaking Reduced at To elseguishhsg 10 inches. strain. Me fracture. where. Remaks. mark. in. tons. tons. in. A. 4.00OJ 32-25 1 06 1125 A. 3'87 32'50 A. 4.62 30-50 329 B. B.:o lnain~' A. 4675 31050 r3229 1 |118 |Mean of elongatio 4-2 inches. A. 4-00 33 S5 J2 A. 4'12 33*75 Abstract of the foregoing. Length between Breaking strain Mean elongation the nippers. in tons. in inches. in. 120 32'21 26 42 32-125 9'8 36 32-35 8'8 24 32'00 6'2 10 32 29 4-2 As these experiments were made upon the same description of iron, it may be fairly inferred that the length of a bar does not in any way affect its strength. Reduction of the preceding Table. Length of bar. Elongation. Elongationper unit of length. in. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 723 Here it appears that the rate of elongation of bars of wrought iron increases with the decrease of their length; thus while a bar of 720 inches has an elongation of *216 inch per unit of its length, a bar of 10 inches has an elongation of *42 inch per unit of its length, or nearly double what it is in the former case. The relation between the length of and its maximum elongation per unit, may be approximately expressed by the following formula, viz. 1=18+2L ' where L represents the length of the bar, and I the elongation per unit of length of the bar. These results are of some value, as they exhibit the ductility of wrought iron at a low temperature, and also the greatly increased strength which it exhibits with a reduced section under severe strain. On some future occasion we may refer to this subject in order to show the bearing powers of wrought iron when compared with its elongated transverse section when reduced by forces sufficient to ensure fracture. The following experiments were made to determine the transverse strength of beams, recommended by Mr. KENNEDY of Liverpool, for supporting the decks of iron. ships. Experiment 8.-October 10, 1845. On a malleable iron beam, of the annexed sectional form, 11 feet 7 inches long, and II feet between the supports. Dimensions at a= 1'000 in. X2in. Dimensions at be '325 in.X7 in. M Dimensions at c '380 in. X 4 in. Weight of beam=227 lbs. Hi Weight of shackle=885 lbs. Weight Deflection Deflection in lbs. in inches. load Remarks. removed. 885 '04 2,581 '1 2 4,317 .20 6,050 .26 7,743 *35 9,493 '46 11,253 '60 *09 12,955 ...... ...... With this weight the beam became distorted, and continuing the weight for some time, the deflection kept increasing until it bent laterally so as to be no longer able to sustain the load. Ultimate deflection=*69. 4z 2 724 MR. FAIRBAIRN'S EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY Experiment 9..-October 10, 1845. On a malleable iron beam of the annexed sectional form (see fig. 66), 10 feet 9 inches long, and 10 feet between the supports. Dimensions at a= 1 000 in. X 2-4in. Dimensions at b= '350 in. X 8 in. Dimensions at c= '440 in. X 4,30 in. Weight of beam =247 lbs. Weight of shackle= 885 lbs. Weight Deflection Deflection Remarks. in lbs. in inches. remoavd. removed. 885 2,631 04 4,358 *12 6,098 '15 7,827 '19 9,585 *21 11,278 *26 12,980 '30 '03 14,693 '35 *03 16,373 '45 '09 18,115 '68 *26 18,962 With this weight the beam was distorted and the experiment discontinued. Ultimate deflection= '71. In both these experiments the beams yielded to lateral deflection, showing certain defects of form arising fromj want of lateral strength and breadth in the top and bottom flanges. INTO THE STRENGTH OF WROUGHT-IRON PLATES. 725 Experiment 10..-October 10, 1845. Malleable iron beam of the same form as the last, 10 feet 7 inches long and 10 feet between the supports. Thickness, a_ 1I000 in. X 2-75 in. a Thickness, b380 in.)X 8 in. Thickness, c= *420 in. X 4'30 in. Weight of beam"=276 lbs. Weight Deflection Deflection in lbs. in inches. load Remarks. removed. 885 *020 2,606 *050 4,364 *090 6,105 100 7,835 -140 9,559 *165 -03 11,257 *195 *03 12,999 *220 *04 14,728 *250 16,407 *250 18,108 *290 19,839 .370 21,553 *475 ..... With 21,553 lbs. the deflection increased in four minutes *025; in the next four minutes o10; and in four minutes more it had sunk to *34. 22,387 .590 23,046 ...... ...... Bent laterally upwards of 2-65 inches, when the experiment was discontinued. Ultimate deflection=.6. In these experiments it will be necessary to remark, that they were made with the narrow flange uppermost; a position rather favourable to the strength than otherwise, on account of the increased area of the top flange, which is equal to 2-75 inches; and the bottom flange is only 1-8 inch, a circumstance (deduced from subsequent experiments) favourable to the resisting powers of a wrought-iron beam. Manchester, April 10, 18O0. 