XXXV. The President's Report of the Account given him by Tho. Burrat, of Kensington, concerning the Earthquake on March 8. last past. ON Tuesday the 24th of this present April 1750. Mr. Thomas Burrat, of Kensington, a Husbandman, and Bailiff to the Right Honourable Henry Fox Esq; of Holland House, gave me the following Account: Read April 26. 1750. That, being early about his Business in the Grounds about a Quarter of a Mile from the said House, on Thursday the 8th Day of March last, as he was going to tell his Sheep (which he does every Morning, and which were then lying down on a dry sloping Piece of Ground), he heard, as he thought, about a Quarter after Five a Clock, a Noise, much like Thunder at a Distance; which coming, to his Apprehension, from the North-West, continued some small time, growing louder as it came nearer him, and gave a Crack (so he expressed himself) over his Head; and then went off in the same manner it came on towards the South-East. He said, that the Sky was, to his thinking, quite clear, and without any Cloud; and that he saw neither Lightning, nor any Appearance of Fire; but that, immediately after the Crack, he found the S s s s Ground [682] Ground to shake under him; and that he even saw it move where he was (tho' as dry and sound a Spot as any he knows) like a Quagmire or Quicksand; insomuch that he could not help being apprehensive, that it would have opened, and taken him in. He says, that the Sheep he was beginning to tell all started up at once, as frighted, and presently began to run, as if pursued by somewhat they were apprehensive of. He said further, that he took notice, that several Crows, which were at Roost upon some Trees not far off, all at the same Instant flew away, making the same Noise they constantly make when they are affrighted at the Discovery of a Bird of Prey, or any other Enemy; and that the Trees themselves very sensibly trembled and shook. The Noise he heard began a sensible time before the Shake of the Earth; and he judges that the whole Matter lasted better than a Minute. He first expressed himself about the Direction of the Noise he heard in the Manner just above related; and, being asked again concerning that Particular, he explained himself by saying, that, to his thinking, it came on from between Hillington and Harrow on the Hill, and went off over Deptford: Which may be observed to be very agreeable to his other Description. Mr. Bird, the eminent Mathematical Instrumentmaker in the Strand, told me also the same Day, that he heard, at his House, a Noise, like the Discharge of a Cannon at some Distance, just before the Earthquake; and that his Bed, in which he then was, was very sensibly rocked from right to left twice: And that he is well assured the Feet of the 3 Bed [683] Bed were actually lifted up from the Floor, during the Motion; as he was very sensible, by the Noise they made when they came to the Floor again, 4 times in all, twice to his right Hand, and as often to his left Hand. 