~ from London 9 30 40 50 10 20 30 40 50 10 20 Cape Neg. 10 ~ Lolatte 1. ~ 37 Bona 50 K I N G D O M F R E G F By Plains of Bu 40 R. Bowl Tagaste 30 or Tunga Tubersoke R. Hallat 20 The River Megerda Lorbos Dugga ~ Musti 10 Gellah Kess O F R. Scilliana 36 Hydra Useph Manson 50 ~ Tibesa R. Hataab Kisser 40 E L S A R A ~ Mt. Megal Tusana 30 Spetula ~ A L G I 20 To the H 10 10 20 30 ~ 50 10 10 ~ 30 40 50 ~ Philo. Trans. No. 411 Cape Serra Tab. I. Cape Blanco Cape Negro The Dogs Biserta G E A Thimida Elalich Cape Zibeeb Port ~ Port ~ ~ Matter ~ Cape Bonne Gallah C. Cammart ~ Sede ~ C Carthage Bardo Beja Tuburbo Goletta Gurbos duct Tunis Clibea Busdera Bhados R. ~ f Bagradas Mezerilbah Solyman Aque Mt. Keran ~ ~ Mesherga ~ Gurba ~ R. Hallat ~ Tellah Aseit Gerado Nabal ~ Hamamett ~ Aqueduct Phara ~ Mt. ~ Zungar ~ Seloome Gulph of HAMAM-METT Casir ~ ~ Casir ~ Hercla ~ Nabhana Mt. Usulett ~ Susa ~ ~ Minasteer Mt. Truzza Sahaleel ~. Megala ~ Lempta R. ~ I. ~ ~ R. Dcfilah Zelepha ~ Tobulba Demas Gilma Arregis Elmadia Salecto ~ Honourable ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 20 10 37 ~ 50 40 30 20 10 TT 36 50 40 30 20 G I E R or To the H 10 the Sr. Hans Sloane the Royal Society K I N G D O M 35 D E S E R T Feriana is ~ by 50 a 40 Algier July 7th. 1729 Gaffsa 30 Gorbata 20 BLAIDE EL ~ 10 Sbekka Elhamta Sede Med ~ Bahira 34 Toser Bahira Plains el Phara-oon or of Pharaoh Nephta Falnassa O R 50 Teleneen Maggi ~ S E B K A H EL-LOWDIA or LAKE of MARKS N I P H Z O W A H Ebillee 40 T H E C O U N T R Y O F D A T E S 30 30 ~ 50 8 10 20 30 40 50 9 10 the Honourable Salecto ~ Bart. President of Tabras Gemm Elalia ~ &c. This Map of the Sbea Rugga Shebba ~ O M of T U N I S is with all Respect dedicated Buttra Gebiniana by his most obedient and humble Servant S A H ~ Thomas Shaw ~ Querquennes 29 ~ ~ Terfowa R. Terst Mahares Unga E E D ~ Medhub Ellamett R. Acrowd ~ Woodrist Gaps R. Triton T H E L E S S E R S Y R T I S Tobulba S I. Jerba 10 20 30 40 50 10 10 20 30 40 50 ~ 10 35 50 ~ 40 30 20 10 34 50 40 30 ~ (177) I. A Letter to Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. R. S. Praes. containing a Geographical Description and Map of the Kingdom of Tunis, with a Postscript relating to the Cure of Intermittent Fevers in those Parts; By the Reverend Mr. Tho. Shaw, Chaplain to the English Factory at Algier. S I R, Algier, July 9. 1729. T H I S waits upon you with a Map of the Kingdom of Tunis, which I have very faithfully laid down, according to the Observation I lately made in those Parts. From Tunis I travelled as far Westward as Hydra, and from thence went to Toser, passing from Tegewse through the Lake of Marks, or the Palus Tritonia, as I take it, to Gaps; from Gaps I travelled all the Way upon the Coast to Biserta; but at the same Time took Care to visit such Places within Land, where I could learn of any Ruins or Curiosities. I made use of a small, but very good Mariners Compass, and found the Variation at Cairwan 10 Degr. West; at Biserta something more than 12 Degr., and at Algier I find it now to be 30 Degr. 30 Min. I carried along with me likewise a Brass Quadrant of a Foot Radius, and took the Latitudes of Tunis, Cairwan, Spetula, Gaffsa, Toser, Ebillee, Gaps, Stax, Susa, Lowharia and Biserta, with all the Exactness such an Instrument would admit of. As to the Longitude, most Mariners whom I have conversed with, agree within 10 or 12 Miles, that the Distance between Algier and the Guletta (or Port of Tunis) is 400 Miles. I have B b made (178) made this Voyage four Times, and the Reckonings we made aboard, amounted only to 390. I have made therefore the Meridional Distance betwixt this Place and Cape Carthage 350 Miles: (allowing 48 to a Degree of Longitude) for as this whole Course is not upon the same Parallel, we may very well allow 40 or 50 Miles for the oblique Sailing; because the Course is in 37 Degr. 20 Min. N. Lat. but Algier lies in 36 Degr. 48 Min. and the Guletta in 36 Degr. 40 Min. The Civil War which unfortunately broke out in this Kingdom (i. e. of Tunis) when I was preparing to return by Land to Algier, disappointed me of seeing some few Places to the Westward, and of continuing my Voyage through Theveste, Lambesa, Cirta, Satifi, &c. to Algier. But I intend, God willing, to take these in my Way to Italy, and shall then lose no Time or Opportunity of making what further Discoveries I can in those Parts, and of laying before you the Geography and Antiquities of the Mauritania Caesariensis and Sitifensis; of the Numidia betwixt the Rivers Ampsaga and Tusca; as well as of the Africa propria of Pliny, and the Bizacium of Strabo and Ptolemy, which I am now going to give you some Account of. The Kingdom of Tunis is bounded to the North and East with the Mediterranean Sea, to the West with the Kingdom of Algier, and to the South with that of Tripoly. It is 230 Miles in Length from the Isle of Gerba, in Latitude 33 Degr. 24 Min., to Cape Serra, in Latitude 37 Degr. 16 Min. and 128 Miles in its greatest Breadth from Monasteer to Tibesa. Sbeka, its utmost Boundary to the West, (179) West, lies in Longitude 7 Degr 26 Min. and Clybea, its utmost Boundary to the East, in 10 Degr. 47 Min. from London. Of the modern Geographers, Luyts seems to have been the best acquainted with its Extent in general, giving it 3 Degr. of Longitude, and (above) 4 Degr. in Latitude. The Sansons place it above 3 Degr. further to the South than it should be, and their Error is greater, in relation to the Longitude. Moll places it a few Minutes only too far to the North, but to the South he has extended it beyond the Parallel of Tripoly, wherein I find he has been fol. lowed hy Mr. De Lisle, in his Map of Africa, 1722. But a long Chain of Mountains which run in the same Parallel of Latitude with Gerba, are the Limits of Tunis and Tripoly. If we take the Antients for our Guides, we shall still find further Errors and Disagreements. For Ptolemy makes the Difference of Latitude betwixt Carthage and Gaps, almost the two Extremities of the Kingdom, to be only 1 Degr. and 50 Min. (provided the Italian Copy I make use of be correct) The like Distance he puts between Gaps and Toser, making thereby the latter 110 Miles more to the South; whereas I found it 18 Miles more to the North. Thus again he places Gaffsa in Latitude 29 Degr. 45 Min. and Gaps in 30 Degr. 30 Min. making Gaps a great Way to the North; whereas the Course from Gaffsa to Gaps, is near 80 Miles South-East: not to speak of his placing Carthage, and so respectively of other Places, too far to the South by near 4 Degr. 30 Min. or 270 Miles. The like Errors may be observed as to his Difference of B b 2 Longi(180) Longitude of particular Places, and as to his Scale of Longitude in General, which he places at least 10 Degr. too far to the East. The Antinine Itinerary will also admit of several Doubts and Contradictions, as Ricciolus has already observed, Georgr. p. 74, and therefore is not to be altogether depended upon; though it must still be allowed to be a much better Conductor than Ptolemy. Thus the Author of the Itinerary makes it to be 216 Miles from Suffetula, I presume by the Way of Adrumettum, to Clypea, thereby making Clypea 111 Miles from Adrumettum; whereas in another Place, in his Maritime Itinerary, he only makes a Difference of about 44 Miles, or 350 Furlongs. And again he makes the direct Road from Carthage through Laribus and Theveste to Cirta, to be 332 Miles; but the Road by Hippo Regius, or Bona, which should be further, only 312. So that great Caution is to be observed in following that Authority. Pliny is not so particular as either Ptolemy or the Itinerary. He lays down Things in general, and therefore can give but little Light and Assistance to a Traveller, in pointing out to him the antient Boundaries, or the particular Cities of this Kingdom. His Alphabetical Collection of Towns, has but little Instruction in it, and where he would seem to follow some Order and Method, as in naming the Towns along the Coast of Bizacium, he places Adrumettum and Ruspina after Leptis; thereby insinuating, as if Leptis lay at a greater Distance from the lesser Syrtis; the contrary to which is proved easily from Hirtius and other Authors. And if with Cluverius, (181) rius, &c. we should make the Africa of Pliny, comprehending even the two Provinces of Zeugitana and Bizacium, to be the Kingdom of Tunis, we shall meet with great Difficulties in the Geography, especially of Bizacium, which is the Southern, and ought to be the greater Part of it. For as Pliny makes it only 250 Miles in Circuit, and to extend from Adrumettum or Hercla North to Sabrata, or to Gaps only, or Tacape South, we shall find that this Number of Miles will not be sufficient to measure the Coast twice over, and therefore can lay no Claim at all to any Part of the Continent. But how far short soever this Calculation may be of the Truth, it seems very probable, that the Province of Hadrumettum, as described by Ptolemy, how faulty soever he may be in Particulars, is the Bizacium which we look after, and that it included the Blaide el Gereed, or Country of Dates, which Pliny and the Author of the Itinerary seem to have known nothing of, or not to have regarded. For Ptolemy's Usulitanum, Turza, Zugara, Cities still preserving their old Names, and near upon the same Latitude with Adrumettum, continue to remain its Boundaries to the North; as Toser and Gaps, the Tisuro and Capi, or Tacape of the Antients, do to the South; while Taeney and Gaffsa, or the antient Thaene and Capsa, determine the Midland Continent. And in this Situation, Strabo seems to place his Bizacu; and at the same Time makes the Country of the Carthaginians to be only the Zeugitana of Pliny, * Supra Syrtes Psyllos atque Nasamones atque Getularum aliquos: deinde Syrtas & Byzacios usque ad Carthaginiensem regionem: ea <inferred>cnim</inferred> est multa. Strab. Geogr. l. 2. contrary (182) contrary to the Opinion of some Geographers, who give it a much greater Extent. However the Zeugitana, or the greater Part of it at least, is still called Fregea or Frikaea by the Arabs; and as this is without doubt a Corruption of its antient Name, so the Tradition of it through so many Ages, may perhaps be a stronger Argument, that this was the Africa properly so called of Pliny, or the Province of Africa, by Way of Eminence, than most of the Geographical Reasons which have hitherto appeared to the Contrary. The Kingdom of Tunis then contains the Africa propria of Pliny, with the Bizacium of Strabo, or the Province of Hadrumettum of Ptolemy, to which we are likewise to add so much of Numidia as lies half a Day's Journey, or six Leagues West of Keff; for Keff or Sicca Venerea is now Part of these Dominions, and which Ptolemy and Pliny place in Numidia, though it is almost in the same Meridian with the River Tusca. I am with all Respect, Sir, Your most obedient and humble Servant, Tho. Shaw. P O S T S C R I P T. S I R~ July 15. B Y a Letter just received, I am advised, that most Parts of England have suffered very much this Year by Intermitting Fevers; and as we have a Species of the Scabiosa here, which is of great (183) great Virtue in removing~ that Distemper, I thought proper to send you a Specimen of its upper Leaves, for the lower are at present dried up. It is not unlike the Figure which Morison gives of his 20thSpecies, Cap. XXI. Sect. 6. Tab. 14, or of his 25th Species, Cap. XXI. Sect. 6. Tab. 15. of Corymbiferous Plants, only the Head is not round, as there described. I have therefore presumed to call it, Scabiosa, flore pallide purpureo, capitulo oblongo, foliis superioribus incisis, inferioribus integris, serratis. The Method of preparing it is to put a Handful of it into a Quart of Water, and boil it away to a Pint. A Coffee-Dish full of this Decoction is given Fasting, a little before Dinner, and at Night, to the Patient, no Regard being had to the Interval or Intermission of the Fit, as in giving the Bark; and it operates ordinarily by Stool or Urine. I have only seen this Plant here, at Oran, Gibraltar, and Mount Libanus, where I first was acquainted with its extraordinary Qualities. If it is not known in England, though I think Mr. Bobart shewed me it at Oxford, please to advise me, and I shall send you a Quantity of it dried, and the Seed of it, from this Place. There are other Herbs here made use of in different Distempers, and oftentimes with Success, and which I shall give you an Account of in the Natural History of this Country; but none is in so much Vogue and Esteem, as the Herb I have now described to you. How far its Virtues may be altered, diminished, or entirely lost in another Climate, Experience alone can teach us; only I can assure you, that in this, the Use of it for a few Days has been known to re2 move (184) move the most inveterate Cases. I am with all Respect, Sir, Your most obedient and humble Servant, Tho. Shaw. II. 