IV. An Account of an Aurora Australis, seen Jan. 23. 1749-50, at Chelsea, by John Martyn, F. R. S. Prof. Bot. Cantab. communicated by Martin Folkes, Esq; Praes. Reg. Soc. J A N. 23. 1740/50 at about half an Hour after five in the Evening, casting my Eye accidentally toward a Window which looked to the S. S. W. I thought I saw a reddish Light about the Planet Venus, which then shone exceedingly bright. Being suspicious of some Fire in the Neighbourhood, I went immediately to a Window on the S s 2 StairRead Jan. 25. 1749-50. [320] Stair-case, where I saw a reddish Light, which shone with such exceeding Brightness, that the Lustre of the fine Constellation of Orion was almost effaced. I then went to a Window facing the N. N. E. where I presently saw a very broad Band of Crimson Light, like that which I observed from the same Window, March 18. 1738-9; an Account of which is printed in the Phil. Trans. No 461. But in the former the red Band was bounded on the N. by Streams of a greenish Blue; whereas the Band now observed was entirely of a deep Crimson Colour, being of a much darker Red than the former. Thence I withdrew into my Garden, where I plainly saw a Band or Arch, of a very deep ~Crimson Colour, in Appearance about 15~ broad, the Southern Edge of which passed just above Canis minor, and the Shoulders of Orion. It was terminated to the Westward, near Venus, then about 20~ high: but it extended to the Eastward as far as I could see, and the farther it went that way, the deeper was the Colour, and the broader the Band. About a Quarter before Eight, there was formed a Crown about 30 Degrees to the Southward of the Zenith; for I could plainly perceive the Pleiades, which had then just passed the Meridian, very near it, when the Light was faint. From this Crown a great many Rays darted to the E. S. and W but not toward the N. where only some whitish Streaks were to be seen, but very faint. Presently after this, the Part of the Arch extending to the East seemed to be suddenly kindled, as if some Train had been fired; grew extremely bright and vivid; and as if all the [321] the red Matter had been then consumed, put an End to the Phaenomenon before Eight. During the rest of the Evening, a pale Light covered the South Part of the Heavens, as if the Moon had shone. V. 