Of a means to illuminate an Object in what proportion one pleaseth; and of the Distances requisite to burn Bodies by the Sun. One of the means used by M. Auzout to enlighten an Object, in what proportion one pleaseth, is by some great Object-Glass, by him called a Planetary one, because that by it he shews the difference of Light, which all the Planets receive from the Sun, by making use of several Apertures, proportionate to their distance from the Sun, provided that for every 9 foot draught, or thereabout, one inch of Aperture be given for the Earth. Doing this, one sees (saith he) that the Light which Mercury receives, is far enough from being able to burn Bodies, and yet that the same Light is great enough in Saturn to see cleer there, seeing that (to him) it appears greater in saturn, than it doth upon our Earth, when it is overcast with Clouds: Which (he adds) would scarce be believed, if by means of this Glass it did not sensibly appear so; Whereofhe promises to discourse more fully in his K Treatise (70) Treatise of the usefulness of great Optick-Glasses, where he also intends to deliver several Experiments, by him made, 1. Touching the quantity of Light, which a Body, that is 10. 15 and 20 times, &c. remoter than Saturn, would yet receive from the Sun. 2. Touching the quantity of Light, by which the Earth is illuminated even in the Eclipses of the Sun, in proportion of their bigness. 3. Touching the quantity of Light, which is necessary to burn Bodies: he having found, that not abating the Light, which is reflected by the Surfaces of the Glass (whereof he confesseth, he doth not yet exactly know the quantity) there would be necessary about 50 times as much Light, as we have here, for the burning of Black Bodies; and neer 9 times more for the burning of White Bodies, than for the burning of Black ones: and so observing the immediateproportions between these two, for burning Bodies of other Colors. Whence (he tells us) he hath drawn some consequences, touching the distance, at which we may hope, to burn Bodies here, by the means of great Glasses and great Looking-glasses. So that (saith he) we must yet be seven times neerer the Sun, than we are, to be in danger of being burned by it. Where he mentions, that having given Instructions to certain persons, gon to travel in Hot Countries, he hath among other particulars recommended to them, to try by means of great Burning-glasses, with how much less Aperture they will burn there, than here, to know from thence, whether there be more Light there than here; and how much; since this perhaps may be the only means of trying it, supposing, the same matters be used: although the difference of the Air already heated both in hot Countries, and in the Planets, that are neerer than we may alter, if not the quantity of Light, at least that of the Heat, found there. 