(3006) An Accompt of some Books. 1. SCHEEPS-BOVW en BESTIER, that is, NAVAL ARCHITECTURE and CONDUCT; by N. Witsen, printed at Amsterdam, 1671. in Fol. THe Ingenious and Industrious Author of this Work having considered with himself, that his Country=men, though so flourishing in Navigation and Naval Architecture, had yet published nothing of that subject, except what De Heer sjassens had written of the Politie of Shipping, did re= solve with himself to break that silence, and to communicate unto the World a History both of the Ancient and Modern way of Building, Equipping, and Governing of Ships; which design having been by him put in execution in this Book, he therein largely treateth not only of the Manner of the Naval Architecture used by the Greeks and Romans, together with their Naval Exercises, Battles, Discipline, Laws and Customs; but also of the Method and Way used at this day both in his own Country, England, France, and the Indies, together with the difference there is between the Manner of Building Ships, practised by Others, from that of the Dutch, and particularly of the Indian way of Equipping their Ships, and the manner of Building Galleys: All inriched with an ample Seamans Dictionary, and a great number of Illustrating Diagrams. The whole Work is divided into Two main Parts; The First contains XIX Chapters; whereof, 1. Giveth an account of the first Builders of Ships, and in general of the Building of the Antients, both before and after the Deluge; where the Author particularly discourseth of Noah's Ark; of divers Ships found deep under ground; of the structure of the Ship Argo; of the Navigation of the Phenicians,Rhodians,Corinthians,AEgyptians, Tyrians, Cretians, &c. 2. Delivers the Way of the Naval Architecture of the Greeks and Romans, both for War and Commerce, together with the manner of Equipping their Ships row'd with Oars, both of single and manifold ranks, and the sitting of the Rowers Where (3007) Where he treats of the Biremis Pistrix; the Biremis Vallata Oneraria Cerealis Siracusia; the Biremis and Tiremis turrita; the Triremis vallata, &c. 3. Discourseth of several sorts of the Ancients Structure of Ships, and chiefly of the great Vessels built by Philopater and Hiero, the pompous make of both which is here represented; as also of the numerousness and launching of their Ships. 4. Enumerateth divers un-common Observables in Ships both of Ancient and Later times, as in Noab's Ark, the Ships of Argo, Theoris, Paralon, Salamine, Magellan, Drake, &c. To which he adds that Noble Fregat built in England A. 1637. called the Soverain, of 1637 Tuns, having a keel that was to be drawn by 28 oxen and 4 horses'; as also a Description of the Spanish Armada of 1588,called the Invincible; not forgeting the Bucentoro of the Venetians; nor the Mageleza of the Suedes, a Man of war, appearing at Sea about 100 years since, and having sides of that thickness, that all bullets stuck within her boards. In this Chapter is inserted a Relation of a Ship found in the time of Pius II. in the Numidian Sea, 12 fathoms under water, 30 foot long and of a proportionable breadth, built of Cyprus and Larix wood, and reduced to that hardness, that it would hardly burn; as it was also very hard to cut: No signs in it of any rottenness any where; its deck cover'd with paper, linnen and leaden plates, fastned with guilt nails, as also were the boards; the whole ship so close,that not a drop of water was found soaked through into any close room. The Author concludeth it to have lain there about 1400 years. 5. Relateth, what great Fleets were anciently set out, and what far voyages undertaken: where he taketh particular notice of the Expedition of the Argonautes, of Xerxes, of Alexander M,of Rome,and Cartage,of the Saxons,Britons,&c. 6. Describeth what the Antients observed in Building their Ships, and how they closed, rigged and beautified them; where occur several relations of divers ways of cementing, caulking, pitching, and defending ships from rottenness and worms; of which I shall only mention, what occasionally he alledgeth of a certain cement now used by the Indians, made of finely beaten reeds, chalk, and oyl, with which their (3008) their Ships are over-laid to keep them from rotting. 7. Rehearseth the State of Naval Architecture after the Ruine of the Roman Empire; especially amongst the Scyhians, and Saracens, invading Italy, Spain, France, &c; together with the endeavors of the Romans under Justinian and others, to defend themselves against those Barbarians: Not omitting, what was done by the Danes, Huns, English, Saxons, and particularly by that Brave and Vigilant King Edgar, who maintained a Fleet of 3600 sail, which he divided into three Squadrons, called the Eastern, Western and Northern, sailing in them himself every year round about England and Scotland. To this he annexeth,at what time Shipping was at the lowest ebb, and how it began to be restored by some Kings of Portugal,the Frieslanders, and his Countrymen in general, about 200 years since. 8. Giveth an ample and very particular account of the present way of Building Ships, both for War and Trade,in Holland. Where are represented not only the Parts of a Ship in their several Figures, together with their Names, and Uses; but also a whole Ship, perfectly rigg'd, and on it the parts marked, with reference to the annexed Discourse, wherein they are described. 9. Contains a particular Description of the Proportions of all the Parts of a Dutch ship, and the Measures of some peculiar sorts of Vessels of that Country: Where he instanceth in several Ships of different lengths, as of 134, 160, 150, 140, 125, 130, feet long; as also in a Frigot, 130 feet long; and assigneth the measures and proportions of the respective parts thereof: Adding withall an account of divers Frigots and other Ships, there built by some of their most famous Shipwrights, to the number of Twenty six. 10. Declareth the Make and Weight of all sorts of Ankers, and the bigness and weight of Cables in general, and in particular of certain Ships built there; as also the measures and proportions of Mafts, and Sails, of divers Vessels, and how Sails may be best ordered to take in most wind, mathematically shown: Where Occasion is taken to insert considerable remarks about the several sorts of Hemp, and the best way of working (3009) working Cables, and the care to be had in the manner of tarring them, and in the degree of heating the tar for that purpose, &c. 11. Delivers the Method of conjoyning the parts of a Ship one after another, used by Dutch Ship wrights; together with a representation of a Ship upon the Stocks, and their manner of Launching ships: Adding their way of redressing a ship that lieth on her side, as well as of laying her on her side for re= pairing or cleansing; and intimating also, that amongst them a ship 180 or 185 feet long, can conveniently be built up, by 50 men, in 5 months; and that the charges of building a ship, 165 feet long, 43 feet broad, and 31 feet high, built of the best timber, amounts to 74152 gilders; besides its ironwork, which together with its rigging comes to 19483 gilders more, without the warlick equipage: Judging withall, that such a ship, well built and kept with care, may last 20, 30, 40, to 50 years; mentioning also, that he had seen a certain En= glish vessel, of 70 years old, and not yet altogether useless. 12. Speaks of the measures and proportions of several other Sea-vessels, that are of a structure and use different from that of the former; such as are Flutes, Green-land-vessels for Whale-fishing, Advice=yachts, Boyars, Galliots, Fire-ships, Pinks, Busses,&c. 13. Treats of other sorts of Vessels, as Coasters, Yachts, Challoups, Lighters, Boats, Skiffs, Double-bottom'd Vessels, ships rising without being unladen, and such as move under water, or against the stream, and especially of a Vessel used at Amsierdam, whereby in one day may be fetch'd up 50 or 60 boats of mud, performed by the means of a big wheel and large spoons. In the same Chapter, instructions are given concerning the Choice of Ship-Timber; where are to be found many necessary and very useful Observations and Directions relating to the purpose in hand,and a particular commendation of the English and Irish Oak for ships. To all which is added an Enumeration of all sorts of Tools and Engins requisite for this kind of building. 14. Considers (3010) 14. Considers the Structure of Galleys and Galleasses in particular, and what is peculiar in them and different from other ships; taking also notice in brief of Galeasses, Brigantines, Feluccas, &c. 15. Discourseth of the Proportions observed by the English and French in the building of their respective ships: Where he taketh special notice of Four Frigats of four distinct rates; exhibiting and describing them as they are to be found in the Duke of Northumberland, Robert Dudley, his Arcano del Mare, printed at Florence; and concluding this Chapter with a description of the Frigat called the Royal Charles, (some years since fallen into Dutch hands,) and an Encomium of the English Orders at Sea. 16. Maketh a Narrative of the Indian way of framing ships: Where first of all occur the Canoe's and their Structure out of one only Tree, hollow'd by burning. Next, the Chinese Yonks of Nankin (a sort of flat bottom'd Boats,) and other Vessels of the same Country; among which those are described, that are as big as little Islands, and hold many houses and families, floating upon the waters, and going up and down through all the parts of China that have the conveniency of navigable rivers: To which is added a description of a Royal Chinese boat, of a Serpentin shape, sent to receive the Dutch Ambassadors in those parts. Then the ships of Malabar, Ternate, Sumatra, Japan, Terra del Fuego, (in which last are made very artificial boats of the Barks of the thickest Trees, as in Mala= bar some are made of large Canes, called Bambu;) Moreover of Barneo and Calecut. After this, the Author returns to China, and relateth, that ships are found there, which upon rollers sail over Land; and giveth a large account of the vast number of ships, both warlike and markantile, maintained in that Empire; together with the odd Architecture of the same, and the skil of that people in Navigation; as also an intimation taken out of Martinius, touching the Ancientness of the Chinese Shipping, and their Colouies found setled in Mada= gascar, and their Sailing in old times even as far as to the Red Sea. He concludeth this Chapter with describing the ships of Madagascar, Bengala, Macassar, Siam, Pegu, Maldives, Ormus, Conge, Russia, Lapland, Virginia, &c. 17. Demonstrates (3011) 17. Demonstrates, how much weight of water there lieth against a Ship moving at Sea; having first laid down certain propositions made out by Stevinus in his Hydrostaticks; which Writers foot-steps our Author acknowledgeth to have follow'd herein. Besides he examins also the Center of Gravity of a Ship; which being known, it may be certainly concluded, How a Ship is to lye upon the water, and how heavy it is when 'tis floating, whether loaden or unloaden. Lastly he imparts the way of the Excellent Hudde, of calculating exactly, what burthen a ship can carry either in Salt or Sweet water? Where he also examins the weight of the water, in which a Ship is floating; for which purpose he caused to be made a Cube of Copper-plates, of half an Amsterdam-foot a side, fitted after a certain manner,too particular to be here related, whereby he found, that upon the 15th of March, a foot of Rain water weighed 49lb. 141/2 ounces; and Y=water, 46lb. 21/8 ounces; and Texel-water,46lb. 9 ounces. To all which he adds the way of measuring the Quantity of a Ship's burthen, that hath been agreed upon between the King of Denmark and the States of the United Provinces; as also several ways of doing the same, used by other Nations,and particularly that of the English and French. 18. Explains and gives reasons for the several sizes and shapes of the parts of a ship; as why the Masts ought just to be of such a bulk and height? Why some of them must incline backward, some stand upright? Why a small Rudder can turn a great Ship; and a little Anker stay it? What maketh Ships not feel the Rudder? Why Vessels too broad are weak and prove inconvenient in high Winds? Why long and moderate= ly narrow Ships endure the Sea better, than short and broad ones? How the Keel ought to be placed? Why Gallions and the parts of them are fram'd as they are? Why a Ship is to be broader before,then a bast? That Fregats, built long,narrow and low, sail best. What hinders well=failing? Why Turkish Vessels are excellent Sailers? And many questions more,considered by this Author. 19. Reckons up the particulars of the loose apparatus necessary in a moderately far Voyage for an hundred men, in a ship 134 foot long,both for her conduct and defence,and the Food of the Marriners. Y y y And (3012) And so much of the First Part of this Book. The Second part comprehends the EQUIPPING and Conduct of Ships,and Navies, as well by the Antients as Moderns; couched in IV. Chapters. 1. Discourseth of the Equipping and Ordering of Ships and Sea-men,practised by the Greeks and Romans; as also of the Old rights and Laws of Marriners, their Victuals, Encouragements, Punishments, and Arms,together with their manner of Fighting, and Triumphing upon a victory obtained where are related several Sea-battels and their Events; as also divers famous Pirats, recorded in the Roman History. 2. Describeth the present Conduct and Government of the States General of the United Provinces in their Warlike Fleets; together with their Orders for Convoy-ships. Where are inserted the particular Commands and Instructions given by the said States in the late War between England and that Republick; as also their Placaet concerning Prizes. To all which is subjoined the Ship-masters and Stiermans way of disciplining the Sea-men, and the manner and form of commanding them to perform their part according to the several occasions at Sea. Which Chapter is concluded with several remarks concerning the Load-stone and the Sea-Compass, and especially with what care the Needle for the Compass is to be touch't by the Magnet. 3. Observeth the Ordering of Merchant-ships, and the Conduct of Admiralties; as also how they man and arm their Trade-ships in general, and in particular those that navigate Nord ward, and their Herring-Busses; as also those that saile to the Mediterranean. Further, how things are managed amongst them on Ship-board, in reference to the Seamen, Officers,Souldiers, &c. in their Navigation to the East and WestIndies, Greenland, &c. In this Chapter 'tis also represented, what benefits redound to a Country by Shipping, as to the increase both of its Power and Wealth. 4. Contains a Sea-Dictionary, explaining the Names of the parts of a ship, and the words and phrases used among Seamen for all sorts of naval concerns. II. RE(3013) II RECHERCHES & OBSERVATIONS sur les VIPERES, faites par Monsieur Bourdelot. A Paris, 1671. in 12 ~. THis small Discourse is an Answer to a Letter,which the Excellently Learned Author had received from Signor Redi, First Physitian to the Great Duke of Florence *. In it Mons. Bourdelot declares, that though Signor Redi's Letter do not finally decide the matter in question, yet it is very useful to the farther knowledge of the nature of Vipers by the particularities by him recited. The controversie being, whether the Fellow liquor about the long and crooked teeth of vipers are, even when they are not irritated, venomous; (which is affirmed by Signor Redi,) or, Whether it be a simple innoxious saliva or spittle, as is maintained by Monsieur Charas: This Author observeth, that that liquor controverted is not yellow in French vipers, as 'tis in those of Italy: Which remark he makes use of to the advantage of the often mentioned Redi, who would reconcile these two opinions by suggesting, that the Vipers of Italy and France are differently disposed; countenancing this Observation with what he hath taken notice of, that the venom of the Lues Ve= nerea is much more maligne in hotter than colder Countries; and also with what is constantly related by Voyagers, viz. that Animals are more venomous in Africa than elsewhere. But that notwithstanding this, the Objection made by M. Charas seems not cogent, when he speaks of a Vipers teeth, whose bite prov'd not mortal, although that teeth had been rubbed off and per= fectly dried with bread crums; whereby he would support that Experiment, in which he caused to be bitten and killed 7 or 8 animals one after another, of which the last bitten died first; it seeming impossible to him, that there should be remaining any of that salival Juice about his teeth after so many bitings; and that therefore, to give a cause of that death, recourse must be had to the fierceness of the spirits, transmitted to that crooked teeth, to be revenged of those, against whom these beasts are provoked; which angry spiri s being thrust into the flesh and veins do infect the spirits and blood of those that are bitten. To which our Author answers, that 'tis hard to Y y y 2 maintain. * Of this Letter, being printed, an Accompt was given in Numb. 66. p. 2036. of these Tracts. (3014) maintain, that the vindicative Spirits can pass through a body so solid,as Teeth are,especially since the little teeth have been found by Experience to cause as dangerous effects, as the great ones, after that these had been broken out: And that therefore it may be justly doubted, whether by the said breadcrums all the salival liquor about the teeth of an animal alive could be taken away; as it may be truly assirmed, that the Vipers-teeth are incessantly plunged into their sheaths, and do there continually fill themselves with the said Juice. But he esteems withall,that in hot Countries this liquor may work alone, when conveyed into our flesh by the teeth of a dead Viper, or even with an Ear-picker, into a wound; as it comes to pass in Italy and in hot Countries; but in France and in colder parts, especially such vipers being used as are kept in tuns and brought from a far off, the said juice not being strong enough alone, needs to be made keen by the bilious breath of the angred Viper. And here the Author exspatiateth into a discourse, to shew, that without recurring to a vindicative spirit, passing through a sharp teeth as through a needle, the cholerick breath of an incensed viper may exceedingly invigorate that liquor,and prove a ferment to the same, like some Afflatus malignus & Halitus teter. Where,among other particulars, he speaketh of a Gardiner, who upon the grafting of his Trees, never found more than half the grafts to thrive; of which at last this cause was discovered, that he still took together two grafts to inocu= late, of which he first grafted that which he held in his hand,and then the other which he held in his mouth,which having rotten teeth, did taint the sweetness of the vegetative Juice in the second graft,which was always found wither'd away. To which he adds,how certain breaths of wind corrupt meat, especially when it thunders and lightens; how the exspirations of some men and animals, when corrupted do the like; and that one may be particularly sensible of the breath of a man in choller, and that the bite of a redhaired person is venomous;moreover, that if a man having washed his mouth with vinegar breaths into a bottle,the wine put into it will sowre,and that a butchers boy having eaten oignons and garlick, or having rotten teeth, the beef or mutton by him blow'd upon the night before, will be (3015) be livid next morning, and worth nothing, &c. He mentions likewise an Experiment, by him intended to be made, of putting some of the foming of a mad dog into the wound of a sound dog, to see whether that will make him mad also, and whether it be not the breath of the biting dog, which by its agitated spirits causeth that commotion of madness. Whereupon he observes further, that the breath coming from the spongy Lungs of vipers enraged, is of greater force then all those he hath spoken of, and that 'tis full of bilious spirits when they are angred. Where he examins, whether Vipers have a passage ascending from the Bladder of Gall to the throat, as he affirms he hath found in Snakes, and particularly in those of the Grotta dei Serpi near Bracciano, famous for curing stubborn maladies by big snakes winding themselves about the bodies of the sick exposed there; of which he affirms to have seen the Experiment himself. He concludeth the whole with observing, 1. That as Vipers are easily provoked, so they are very gentle when their bile is not agitated; and that it may be said, they know those that tend them, who take them out of their tuns with whole handfulls innoxiously. 2. That Vipers do exceedingly abound in Spirits, whence they are so proper to restore the aged, and to prolong their days; and that the heart or liver of a viper is one of the greatest Alexitery's in the world, and admirably efficacious in malign fevers. We must not omit to take notice here, that this Author p 17. 18 mentions, that the Gentlemen of the Academy of England (for so he is pleased to call them) do ascribe the venom of Wasps and Bees to the Laceration that is made by the stings of those creatures. Whom he means by this Academy, we know not, unless it be the R Society, who yet never publish't any thing as theirs, whether of this or any other kind. If he mean the Micrography, composed by M. Hook, a Member of that Body, the contents of that book, however licensed by that Society as ingenious, or of any other, thus honoured, ought by no means to be taken for the sense of that Body. But neither does that Book affirm any such thing, but plainly observes, that the said laceration of the stinging animal is follow'd by a virulent liquor which is there made the (3016) the cause of the troublesom effects, that ensue. So that the sense of this part of the Micrography, (if that be pointed at) hath been ill interpreted and represented to our Author; who not to leave that unmentioned) promiseth to publish something, wherein he means to shew, that there are many Insects, which most assuredly are not bred by an Egg: Which piece the Curious are very desirous to see. III. Admirandorum FOSSILIUM, quae in tractu Hildesheimensi reperiuntur, Descriptio, I conibus illustrata, a D. Friderico Lachmund, Hildesheimi, 1669. in 4 o. THis Description containing several things, that may increase the Materials for an History of Nature, (the composure of which is now almost every where endeavoured after;) we thought fit, among other Writers of this kind, to take notice also of this Author, who delivers what he hath met with in the Country above-mentioned in four Sections. In the First he discourseth of the Earths there found, as Marles, Clays, Fullers Earth, Tripoli, Black Chalk, a Vermilion Earth, (melting like butter upon the tongue) and Oker. In the second; of Concrete Juices, as Salt, Niter, Alum, Vitriol, Sulphur, Bitumen; and this latter, (to which he refers the Succinum or Amber so copious in Borussia,) he saith is there digged out in a certain hill, called Dester. In the third; of Stones, especially Spars, Touch stones, Marble, the Lapis Specularis, Blood-stone, Schistus, Lapis Samioides, Chrystal, Brontia and Ceraunia (vulgarly called Thunder-stones,) several sorts of Belemnites's, some of which being rubbed smell like burnt Horn; Eagle-stones; Cornu Ammonis; various shells petrified; Trochites's, which being put in vinegar raise bubles like the Astroites; Stones representing Flower de Luces; divers Angular stones; Stones resembling Trees; a fossil Ebony; whole Columns of dropping lapidescent water cengealed, of the thickness of a man; Osteo colla growing in a sandy ground, sometimes like coral, and at its first coming out ofth Earth friable, but by degrees growing hard; fossil Unicorn and Ivory, commonly hard without, but within soft and friable, sticking close to the tongue, and of a pleasing sent: To (3017) To all which is added an enumeration of variously shaped Stones, found in the bodies of Men and Women; among which there is mentioned one, which being taken out of the cheek of a woman, was found to be a Cherry-stone, round about incrustrate with stony matter, the Cherry being supposed to have been forced into the Cheek by a fall, and there in process of time thus crusted over, as hath been said; as also very many stones come out of the corner of a young Womans Eye: In the fourth, of some uncommon Springs, among which are related some ill senting, and deadly Springs, whereof one is mentioned smelling like rotten Eggs; and another, in which, when cleansed and renewed, four workmen were killed by its noisom exhalations, &c. IV. De CATARRHIS, A. Rich Lower M.D. in 80. WE mention this Book only to give notice, that 'tis now printed by it self in England, to be found at Mr. Martyn's Stationer at the Bell in Pauls Church yard; referring the Reader for the account of the Contents thereof to Numb 73. where it was spoken of, when we saw it printed in Holland, together with the Authors Book De-Motn Cordis & Sanguinis. V. Goth. Voigtii DELICIAEPHYSICAE: Rostochii A.1671. in 80. THis Author entertains his Readers with divers curious subjects, such as are the Bleeding of persons killed, at the presence of the Murtherer; the Tears of Crocodiles; the Licking of new whelp'd Bears by their Dams; the Love between Wolves and Sheep, Fossil Fishes; the Casting of Horns by Dear, &c. As to the first of these, he shews it to be a very dubious and dangerous inference, to conclude a person guilty of murther from the eruption of the blood of the slain; since that both a sufficient natural reason may be given for such bleeding, whosoever be present; and examples are extant of such an effect, when yet the most innocent were by even a Bridegroom sitting by his dead Bride, when the blood burst out of her body. The Second gument is resolved by distinguishing meer Moisture or aqueous drops from Tears properly so called; which latter this Author adscribeth to Rational creatures alone, as only capable of true grief. The third Inquiry, whether the whelps of Bears are born unsnapen and imperfect; is here answer'd in the Negative, those young creatures being in truth found no more unfashioned and desective in their kind, than others in theirs; and the licking of the she-bear being common to her with other animals, that do the like to their young ones. The Fourth is so determin'd by this Author, that he pronounceth the wolve's tearing and devouring of sheep to proceed not from Sympathy or Love, but from the Contrary; it being found, that Wolves often worry many more sheep, than they can devour; there appearing also a manisest aversion betwixt them from the sheep's flying away from (3018) from wolves,instead of which there would be a consociation,if there were a sympathy betwixt them. Where a particular Example being recited of a Wolf keeping and defending sheep; the thing is attributed to their being bred and fed together,and not to any natural Love. Concerning the fifth,'tis here affirmed, that there are Fishes under ground and in mines where waters are found, which may either be naturally met with amongst earth, or conveyed thither by various accidents,inundation of rivers, absorption of rivers, earth-quakes, &c. Where some relations are inserted of odd things found under ground; as of a whole ship fit to sail in the Sea,sound A. 1594.near Maestrich under a sandy hillock; and of another very old ship,found by mine-men A. 1462. not far from Borns in Helvetia under ground, together with its hempen sails and anchors, &c; as also store of Pine-trees,found in the Poole orderly placed under the Earth, which else grow in raised ground. Touching the Sixth, viz.the Casting of Horns by Staggs, 'tis here distinguished,that Castrated Staggs do not cast their Horns, but Entire ones do; yet not so, as that these latter are by good experience known to cast them every year,though it be generally said and believed that they do so; whereas in the mean time 'tis commonly held,that every year in the first six years some addition is made to the branched Horns; unless that be to be understood of a greater number of branches, growing every year, sor so long a time, instead of the lesser number cast off. Of this Casting,the Cause is also here inquired, some adscribing it to such a cause, as maketh Leaves fall from Trees, by reason of the want of a glutinous moisture; others imputing it to their too great Hardness, hindring the diffuson of the copious affluent blood, out of which,being gathered about Autumn, worms in time are bred, which gnawing and thereby exciting the itch make the animal rub off its horns against some Tree; others refer it to both, as our Author. Lastly, of Falling Stars, vulgarly so called, they being in truth nothing but a Meteor: touching which this Author discusseth several Questions; as, How it comes to pass,that at times the True Star, under which the trajection happens, doth not presently appear? Whether those Trajections of Stars do also happen in the day time? Why those Stars when they fly through the Air, seem to represent a long course? why the motion of Falling Stars is flower at the latter end? &c. 