An Account of Books. Profluvia Ventris: or the Nature and Causes of Loosenesses plainly discovered, their Symptoms and sorts evidently settled, the Maxims for Curing `em fully demonstrated, and all illustrated with the most remarkable Methods and Medicins of all Ages; and with some Practical Observations concluding every sort. By William Cockburn, M. D. late Physician of his Majesties Fleet, F. R. S. and of the Colledge of Physicians, London, 1701. in 8 ~ IN this Book, the Author enquires into the Nature and Cure of those Distermpers; and that he may the better avoid the perplexing number of sorts that are commonly found in Books of Physick, he has suppos'd himself absolutely ignorant of what has been said formerly, and endeavours to discover the most general mark of Loosenesses; and proceed, by that, to find as many more as may be useful to distinguish them in proper sorts, and that by marks taken from observation and the Stools themselves. Those sorts he gives proper names to, and those especially they have obtain'd among ancient Authors. In this method, he discovers only the Diarrhaea, Lienteria, Passio Caeliaca and the Dysenteria. Having settled these after this manner, he proceeds to discover by his own ob(830) observation, and the histories of Medicin, the peculiar appearances that Precede, Attend and that Succeed every one of these marks that constitute the sort; because these Foregoing, Attending and Succeeding appearances make the whole disease. This being done,he does assert, that none of these sorts can happen any other way, but by a more violent Peristaltical motion of the Guts, a greater fluxility of Excrements; or a greater quantity of the same, or from all those causes operating together. Which he demonstrates; and upon this general proposition, he proceeds to show, that all the appearances that preceded a Diarrhaea (with which he begins) do necessarily produce these mentioned affections in the Guts, and in that manner as to produce all those other appearances that attend it, and thereafter, that these attending appearances continuing for some time, must needs bring along with them all that is observed to follow upon it, and generally in that order. Those things thus demonstrated, he gives a description of a Diarrhaea, and after the same manner that he discuss'd the Diarrhaea, does he discourse of the Lienteria and other sorts. As he goes on demonstrating all those important truths from proved propositions in Anatomy, Chymistry, Mechanicks and the doctrin of Secretions; he never fails to note the wrong establishing of any new sort as he has occasion to explain the appearance, whereon they found it, and where that particular mistake is. The Fluxus Heptaticus may be an example of what he says; for this disease is still retained among Physicians,though it takes its original from a manifest error in Anatomy, and supposes that the Liver is the receptacle of the Chyle, and the Storehouse of the Blood. Both which are false in fact. Having thus demonstrated the Nature of those Diseases, his next inquiry is into the methods that have been ever taken to cure them, which he reduces into so many maxims (831) ims that he may discou rse the more clearly of them. And because, at first sight, those maxims are not only, not of a kind, but do affect in very opposite ways; and yet daily observation does positively affirm that in fact people have been cured by those methods, and the very same means have not only proved unsuccessful, but have also been found to be <inferred>noxious</inferred>. Wherefore out Author after he has settled those Maxims from Antiquity and constant Observation does determine, by their natural action, how far they are able to answer the fame of their curing those diseases they have been recommended for. And so their use and hurt are easily to be discovered by suchw ounderstand the Theory of the Diseases and Maxims. After all these, this Author gives us some of the best of the Simple and Compound Med'cines, that are recommended by Physicians in all Ages. Among the rest he gives clear hints about the Ipecoacanna; which make its operation more manifest than hitherto has been done; while it has been thought an absolute specifick by the best of Physicians, and no other ways to be accounted for. In all which is added, at the end of every sort, two or three notable Histories duly attested; and those cures especially perform'd by a Medicin this Author thinks fit to conceal for some time: tho he prefers it to any one yet practised. P p p p p 2. Sancto(832) 2. Sanctorij Sanctorij de Statica Medicina Aphorismorum Sectiones Septum cum Commentario Martini Lyster, Londini. Impens. S. Smith & Benj. Walford, R.S.Typograph. 1701. in 8~. THe Ingenious Author of these Aphorisms spent 30 years at Padua, upon the study of Insensible Transpiration, which (like a great Master) he reduc'd to short Static Rules, by the help of a Chair placed in a Ballance. All these he has apply'd to the most momentous parts of Health and Sickness, by a Principle much more sure than the fashionable way of Hypothesis. His Commentator deserves no less praise, having drawn on the side of each leaf his Notes, equal to the Text in all excellencies, if not above it, being assisted by more considerable discoveries in Anatomy and Philosophy. Galen was of opinion, that most Indispositions proceeded from a lesser or larger perspiration than is requisite; which Doctrine is demonstrated by the undoubted Experiments of Sanctorius,and the observations of Dr Lister, which may prove of singular use of those Students in Physick, who pursue Things rather than Notions, and know how to apply Weight, Measure and Numbers, to all the parts of Life. At the end of the Dr hath been pleas'd to give the Reader a Catalogue of all the Tracts and Papers published by himself, which `tis to be wish'd all other Authors would imitate, for the benefit of the Readers. 