Part of a Letter from Mons.Geoffroy,F.R.S. Dated Paris,March 7. 1699. N.S. to Dr. Sloane, giving an Account of the New Regulations of the Royal Academy of Sciences, at Paris. I Shall here give you an Account of the great Splendour that the Academie des Sciences has Received by the Regulations, Incouragement, and Orders, Mons. L'abbe Bignon has obtained to it from the King. That Academy is now composed of Ten honorary Academicians, which are chosen Learned and Eminent Gentlemen; of Eight Strangers associates, which are distinguished by their Learning; Twenty Pensioners Fellows, Twenty Eleves, and Twelve French Associates; out of the honorary Academicians, two are Elected every Year, one for President, the other for Vice-President; only Twenty Pensioners have every Year 1500 French Livers; and after the Death of one Pensioner, the Academy will propose to the King Three Persons Associates, or Eleves, or sometimes others; and his Majesty will call one of the Three for Pensioner. Here is the Catalogue of the Academicians, the Names of honorary and Strangers Associates, who are disposed by order of Reception; but the others are distributed into Classes, into which the Academy is divided. Academiciens (145) Academicians 70. Honoraires 10. Associes Etrangers 8. President,M.L'abbe Bignon M. Lebnitz 2 Presid. M. Le Marquis de L'hopital M.Tschirnhaus M. Le Chevalier Regnaut M. Guillelminy M. De Malesieux M.Bernouilly a Basle Le R. P. Sehastien, Carme M.Bernouilli a Groningue Le R.P. Malbranche de L'oratoire M. Hartsoeker Le R. P. Gouye Jesuite M. Romer M. L'abbe de Louvois M. Newton. M. Fagon Iier Medicin du Roy M. De Vauban. Classes 6. Pensionnaires 20. Eleves 20. Associes Francois M.L'abbe Galois M.Chevalier 12. Geometres M.De la hire M.Lieutaud M.Maraldi M.Roole M.M.Regis M. Cassini M.M. Cassini le fils Astronomes M.Le feure M.Amontons M. De la hire le M.Varignon M.Carre fils. M.Desbillettes M.Parent M.De Chazelles M.Geaugeon M.De Seine M.De Lagny. Mecaniciens M.Daleme MM.Du hamel M.De Litre M. Tauvry M.Du Verney M.Du Verney son M. Bourdelin le Anatomistes M.Merrie frere fils. M.Poupart M.Bourdelin M.Thuillier M.L'anglade M.Homberg M.Geoffroy M.L'Emery. Chymistes M.Boulduc M.Boulduc le fils M. Dodart M. Burlette M.Morin de TouBotanistes -M.Marchand M.Reneaume lon. M.Tournesort M.Berger M.Morin de St. Victor. Secretaire M. De Fontenelle M.Simon Tresorier M.Couplet M. Couplet le fils X IX.The 