C 110a VI. A few facts relative to the colouring matters of some veges tables. By James Smithson, Esq. F. R. S. Read December 8, 1817. I BEGAN, a great many years ago, some researches on the colouring matters of vegetables. From the enquiry being to be prosecuted only at a particular season of the year, the great delicacy of the experiments, and the great care required in them, and consequently the trouble with which they were attended, very little was done. I have now no idea of pursuing the subject. In destroying lately the memorandums of the experiments which had been made, a few scattered facts were met with which seemed deserving of being preserved. They are here offered, in hopes that they will induce some other person to give extension to an investigation interesting to chemistry and to the art of dying. Turnsol. M. FOuROROY has advanced somewhere, that turnsol is essentially of a red colour; and that it is made blue by an addition of carbonate of soda to it; and he says that he has extracted this salt from the turusol of the shops. If turnsol contained carbonate of soda,' its infusions should precipitate earths and metals from acids. I did not find an infusion of turnsol in water to have the least effect on solutions of muriate of lime, nitrate of lead, muriate of platina, or oxalate of potash. Mr. SMrTHSON on the colouring, &c.t III Its tinctures, or infusions, consequently, contain neither any alkali, nor any lime; nor probably any acid, either loose or combined. This is uinfavourable to the opinion of urine being employed in the preparation of turnsol. I put a little sulphuric acid into a tincture of turnsol, then added chalk, and heated; and the blue colour was restored. It appears, therefore, that the natural colour of turnsol is not red, but blue, since it is such when neither disengaged acid or alkali is present. No addition of chalk brought the cold liquor back to a blue colour the carbonic acid absorbed by it, during the effervescence of the carbonate of lime, being sufficient to keep it red. Some turnsol was put into distilled vinegar. An effervescence arose; and after some time the acid was become neuw tralized. On examining the mixture with a glass, there were seen, at the bottom of the vessel, a multitude of grains like sand. It was found on trial that these grains were carbonate of lime; probably of slightly calcined Carrara marble. When turnsol is treated with water till this no longer acquires any colour whatever, the remaining insoluble matter is nearly as blue as at first. Acids made this blue insoluble matter red, but did not extract any red, tincture. Carbonate of soda did not affect it. If the vegetable part of this blue residuum. is burned away, or it is washed off with water, a portion of smalt is obtained. On exhaling, on a water batha tincture of turngol. the colouring mlatter is left in; a dry state. 1 12 Mr. SMITHSON on the colouring This matter heated in a platina spoon over a candle, tume.s fied considerably, as much as starch does, became black and smoked, but did not readily inflame, nor did it burn away till the blowpipe was applied. It then burned pretty readily, leaving a large quantity of a white saline matter. This saline matter saturated by nitric acid afforded crystals of nitrate of potash, and some minute crystals like hydrous sulphate of lime. Is this potash merely that portion of this matter which exists in all vegetable substances ? or is the colouring matter of turnsol a compound, analogous to ulmin, of a vegetable principle and potash ? Its low combustibility gives some sanction to this idea. Of the colournng matter of the violet. The violet is well known to be coloured by a blue matter which acids change to red; and alkalies and their carbonates first to green and then to yellow. This same matter is the tinging principle of many other vegetables : of some, in its blue state; of others, made red 'by -an acid. If the petals of the red rose are triturated with a little water and carbonate of lime, a blue liquor is obtained. Alka-. Iis, and soluble carbonates of alkalis, render this blue liquor green; and acids restore its red colour. The colouring matter of the violet exists in the petals of red clover, the red tips of those of the common daisy of the fields, of the blue hyacinth, the holly hock, lavender, in the inner leaves of the artichoke, and in numerous other flowers. It likewise, made red by an acid, colours the skin of several matters of some vegetables. X. i plumbs, and, I think, of the scarlet geranium, and of the pomegranate tree. The red cabbage, and the rind of the long radish are also coloured by this principle. It is remarkable that these, on being merely bruised, become bluee; and give a blue inifusion with water. It is probable that the reddening acid in these cases is the carbonic; and which on the rupture of the vessels which enclose it, escapes into the atmosphere, Of sugar-loaf paper. This paper has been employed by BERGMAN as a chemical instrument. Lam ignorant of what it is coloured with. Sulphuric muriatic, nitric, phosphoric, and oxalic acids make it red. Tartaric and citric acids, made rather yellow spots than red ones. Distilled vinegar, and acid of amber, had no effect on it. Carbonate of soda and caustic potash did not alter the blue colour of this paper. Water boiled on this paper acquired a vinous red colour; carboinate of lime put into this red liquor, did not affiect its colour: nor did carbonate of soda or caustic potash change it to blue or green, Cold dilute sulphuric acid extracted a strong yellow tincture from t'lis b iled paper: carbonate of lime put to this yellow tincture made it blue; but oin filteringthe liquor which passed was of a dirty greenish colour; and sulphuric acid did raot make it red: a blue matter was left on the filter, which was not made red by acetous acid but was so by sulphuric, MDCCCXvII. Q 114 SMr. SMITHSON on the colourhig After this treatment the paper remained brown; seenin ingly such as it was before being dyed blue. It should seem that there are at least two colouring matters in this paper; one red, which is extricable from it by water ; the other blue, which requires the agency of an acid to extract it. Its insolubility in water, and low degree of sensibility to acids, distinguish the blue matter from turnsol; to which its not being affected by alkalis otherwise much approximate it. Its easy solubility in dilute sulphuric acid, and being reddened by it and several other acids, show it not to be indigo. Of the black mulberry. The expressed juice of this fruit is of a fine red colour. Caustic potash made it green, which gradually became yellow. Carbonate of soda did not make it green, but only blue. Carbonate of ammonia changed it to a vinous red, rather than to blue; and this redness increased on standing. Caustic ammonia made it bluer than its carbonate; but, on standing, the mixture became of the same vinous red. The mulberry juice mixed svith carbonate of lime became purple. On filtering, 'a red liquor passed ; and the carbonate of lime left on the filter was blue. An addition of whitening to the red filtered liquor did not alter its colour nor did this second portion of whitening become blue. Heating did not affect the red colour of this liquor; so that it was not owing to carbonic acid, disengaged from the carbonate of lime. Caustic potash instantly made this red liquor a fine green, and gradually yellow. matters of some vegetables, I 15 Sulphuric acid rendered all the above mixtures florid red. it is remarkable that the mixtures w ith ammonia, and carbonate of ammonia, which were become quite vinous red by standing, were made a perfect blue by the sulphuric acid before they were reddened by it. It would hence seem that the red colour, caused by these alkalis was owing to an excess of them and that in a less quantity they would have produced a blue. The filter, into which the mixture of mulberry juice and chalk had been thrown, was become tinged blue. Water did nest remove this colour. Sulphuric acid made this paper florid red. Caustic potash did not alter Its blue colour ; but put on the places iade red by sulphuric acid, it restored the blue colour, but did not produce green. Future experiments m ust decide whether this blue matter is the sa'me as that of tUrnsol or as the blue matter which the experiments above have Indicated in sugar-loaf paper. The juices of many other fruits, as black cherries red currants, tle skin of the berries of the buckthorn, elder berries, privet berries &c., seem to be made only blue by mild fixed alkalis, but green by caustic. Puzzling anomalies, however, occasionally present themselves which seem to show a near relation between the several blue colouring matters of vegetables, and their easy transition into one another. The corn poy. The petals of the common red poppy of the fields rubbed on paper stain it of a reddish purple colour. Slution of carbonate of soda put to this stain occasioned but little change in it. 16 11fiMr. SMITHSON on the colouritig Caustic potash made it green. Caustic ammonia seemed not to have more effect on It thani carbonate of soda. Some poppy petals being bruised in a mixture of water and marine acid, formed a florid red solution: a superabundance of chalk added to this red liquor, did not make it blue; but turned it to a dark red colour exactly like port wine. Some poppy petals bruised in a weak solution of carbonate of soda, and the mixture filtered, the liquor which came through was not at all blue, but of a dark red colour like port wine. Caustic potash made this red liquor green, which finally became yellow. Some dried poppy petals of the shops, gave a, strong obscure vinous tincture to cold water. This red tincture heated with whitening, did not alter to blue, but preserved its red colour. These very imperfect experiments Imay perhaps suggest the idea, that the colouring matter of this flower is the same as the red colouring matter of the mulberry. Of sap green. The inspissated juice of the ripe, or, semi-ripe, berries of the buckthorn, constitute the pigment called sap green; by the French, vert de vessie. This species of green matter is entirely different from the common green matter of vegetables. It is soluble in water. Carbonate of soda and caustic potash changed the solution of sap green to yellow. Paper tinged by sap green is a sensible test of alkalis. matters of some vegetables. 117 Sulphuric, nitric, and marine acid, made it red. Carbonate of lime added to a reddened solution, restored the green colour, which therefore appears to be the proper colour of the substance. The green colour, which the last infusions of galls present, appears to be different, both from the usual green of vegetables, and from sap green. Some aninal greens. A green puc-eron, or aphis, being crushed oon white paper, emitted a green juice, which was immediately made yellow by carbonate of potash (wrongly called sub-carbonate.) There are small gnats of a green colour: crushed onpaper, they make a green stain, which is permanent. Neither muriatic acid nor carbonate of soda altered this green colour. It is consequently of a different nature from the foregoing. 