PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.. I. Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Nineteenth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L. F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Foreign Associate of the Acad. Sciences, Paris, Cor. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Gottingen, Modena, Stockholm, 8sc. 8fC. Received November 6,-Read November 20, 1845. ? 26. On the magnetization of light and the illumination of magnetic lines of force*. ? i. Action of magnets on light. ? ii. Action of electric currents on light. ? iii. General considerations. ? i. Action of magnets on light. 2146. I HAVE long held an opinion, almost amounting to conviction, in common I believe with many other lovers of natural knowledge, that the various forms under which the forces of matter are made manifest have one common origin; or, in other * The title of this paper has, I understand, led many to a misapprehension of its contents, and I therefore take the liberty of appending this explanatory note. Neither accepting nor rejecting the hypothesis of an ether, or the corpuscular, or any other view that may be entertained of the nature of light; and, as far as I can see, nothing being really known of a ray of light more than of a line of magnetic or electric force, or even of a line of gravitating force, except as it and they are manifest in and by substances; I believe that, in the experiments I describe in the paper, light has been magnetically affected, i. e. that that which is magnetic in the forces of matter has been affected, and in turn has affected that which is truly magnetic in the force of light: by the term magnetic I include here either of the peculiar exertions of the power of a magnet, whether it be that which is manifest in the magnetic or the diamagnetic class of bodies. The phrase " illumination of the lines of magnetic force" has been understood to imply that I had rendered them luminous. This was not within my thought. I intended to express that the line of magnetic force was illuminated as the earth is illuminated by the sun, or the spider's web illuminated by the astronomer's lamp. Employing a ray of light, we can tell, by the eye, the direction of the magnetic lines through a body; and by the alteration of the ray and its optical effect on the eyre, can see the course of the lines just as we can see the course of a thread of glass, or any other transparent substance, rendered visible by the light: and this was what I meant by illumination, as the paper fully explains.-December 15, 1845. M. F. MDCCCXLVI. B 2 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XiX.) words, are so directly related and mutually dependent, that they are convertible, as it were, one into another, and possess equivalents of power in their action*. In modern times the proofs of their convertibility have been accumulated to a very considerable extent, and a commencement made of the determination of their equivalent forces. 2147. This strong persuasion extended to the powers of light, and led, on a former occasion, to many exertions, having for their object the discovery of the direct relation of light and electricity, and their mutual action in bodies subject jointly to their powert; but the results were negative and were afterwards confirmed, in that respect, by WARTMANN t* 2148. These ineffectual exertions, and many others which were never published, could not remove my strong persuasion derived from philosophical considerations; and, therefore, I recently resumed the inquiry by experiment in a most strict and searching manner, and have at last succeeded in magnetizing and electrifying a ray of light, and in illuminating a magnetic line offorce. These results, without entering into the detail of many unproductive experiments, I will describe as briefly and clearly as I can. 2149. But before I proceed to them, I will define the meaning I connect with certain terms which I shall have occasion to use .-thus, by line of magneticforce, or magnetic line of force, or magnetic curve, I mean that exercise of magnetic force which is exerted in the lines usually called magnetic curves, and which equally exist as passing from or to magnetic poles, or forming concentric circles round all electric current. By line of electric force, I mean the force exerted in the lines joining two bodies, acting on each other according to the principles of static electric induction (1161, &c.), which may also be either in curved or straight lines. By a diamagnetic, I mean a body through which lines of magnetic force are passing, and which does not by their action assume the usual magnetic state of iron or loadstone. 2150. A ray of light issuing from an Argand lamp, was polarized in a horizontal plane by reflection from a surface of glass, and the polarized ray passed through a NICHOI'S eye-piece revolving on a horizontal axis, so as to be easily examined by the latter. Between the polarizing mirror and the eye-piece, two powerful electro-magnetic poles were arranged, being either the poles of a horse-shoe magnet, or the contrary poles of two cylinder magnets; they were separated from each other about two inches in the direction of the line of the ray, and so placed, that, if on the same side of the polarized ray, it night pass neat them; or, if on contrary sides, it might go between them,its direction being always parallel, or nearly so, to the magnetic lines of force (2149.). After that, any transparent substance placed between the two poles, would have passing through it, both the polarized ray and the magneticlines. of force at the same time and in the same direction.* Experimental Researches, 57, 366, 376, 877, 961, 2071. Philosophical Transactions, 1834. Experimental Researches, 951-955. + Archives de l'Electricite, ii. pp. 596-600. ROTATION OF :A RAY OF LIGHT BY MAGNETISM. 3 2151. Sixteen years ago I published certain experiments made upon optical glass.*, and described the formation and general characters of one variety of heavy glass, which, from its materials, was called silicated borate of lead. It was this glass which first gave me the discovery of the relation between light and magnetism, and it has power to illustrate it in a degree beyond that of any other body; for the sake of perspicuity I will first describe the phenomena as presented by this substance. 2152. A piece of this glass, about two inches square and 05 of an inch tthick, having flat and polished edges, was placed as a diamagnetic (2149.) between the poles (not as yet magnetized by the electric current), so that the polarized ray should pas's through its length; the glass acted as air, water, or any other indifferent substance would do; and if the eye-piece were previously turned into such a position that the -polarized ray was extinguished, or rather the image produced by it rendered invisible, then the introduction of this glass made no alteration in that respect. In this state of circumstances the force of the electromagnet was developed, by sending an electric current through its coils, and immediately the image of the lamp-flame became visible, -and continued so as long as the arrangement continued magnetic. On stopping the electric current, and so causing the magnetic force to cease, the light instantly disappeared; these phenomena could be renewed at pleasure, at any instant of time, and upon any occasion, showing a perfect dependence of cause and effect. 2153. The voltaic current which I used upon this occasion, wasthat of five pair of GRovE's construction, and theelectromagnets wvere of such power that the poles would singly sustain a weight of from twenty-eight to fifty-six, or more, pounds. A person looking for the phenomenon for the first time would not be able to see it with a weak -magnet. -2154. The character of the force thus impressed upon the diamagnetic is that of rotation; for when the image of the lamp-flamne has thus been rendered visible, revolution of the eye-piece to the right or left, more or less, will cause its extinction; and the further motion of the eye-piece to the one side or other of this position will produce the reappearance of the light, and that with complementary tints, according as this further motion is to the rightor left-hand. 2155. When the pole nearest to the observer was a marked pole, i. e. the same as the north end of a magnetic needle, and the further pole was unmarked, the rotation of the ray was right-handed; for the eye-piece had to be turned to the right-hand, or clock fashion, to overtake the ray and restore the image to its first condition. When the poles were reversed, which was instantly done by changing the direction of the electric current, the rotation was changed also and became left-handed, the altera-* Philosophical Transactions, 1830, p. 1. I cannot resist the occasion which is thus offered to me of mentioning the name of Mr. ANDERSON, who came to me as an assistant in the glass experiments, and has reimained ever since in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution. He has assisted me in all the researches into which I have entered since that time, and to his care, steadiness, exactitude, and faithfulness in the performance of all that has been committed to his charge, I am much indebted.-M. F.n 2 4 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) tion being to an equal degree in extent as before. The direction was always the same for the same line of magneticforce (2149.). 2156. When the diamagnetic was placed in the numerous other positions, which can easily be conceived, about the magnetic poles results were obtained more or less marked in extent, and very definite in character, but of which the phenomena just described may be considered as the chief example : they will be referred to, as far as is necessary, hereafter. 2157. The same phenomena were produced in the silicated borate of lead (2151.) by the action of a good ordinary steel horse-shoe magnet, no electric current being now used. The results were feeble, but still sufficient to show the perfect identity of action between electromagnets and common magnets in this their power over light. 2158. Two magnetic poles were employed end-ways, i. e. the cores of the electromagnets were hollow iron cylinders, and the ray of polarized light passed along their axes and through the diamagnetic placed between them: the effect was the same. 2159. One magnetic pole only was used, that being one end of a powerful cylinder -electro-magnet. When the heavy glass was beyond the magnet, being close to it but between the magnet and the polarizing reflector, the rotation was in one direc-tion, dependent on the nature of the pole; when the diamagnetic was on the near side, being close to it but between it and the eye, the rotation for the same pole was in the contrary direction to what it was before; and when the magnetic pole was changed, both these directions were changed with it. When the heavy glass was placed in a corresponding position to the pole, but above or below it, so that the magnetic curves were no longer passing through the glass parallel to the ray of polarized light, but rather perpendicular to it, then no effect was produced. These particularities may be, understood by reference to fig. 1, where a and b represent the first positions of the diamagnetic, and c and d the latter positions, the course of the ray being marked by the dotted line. If also the glass were placed directly at the end of the magnet, then no effect was produced on a ray passing in the direction / P here described, though it is evident, from what has been already F , said (2155.), that a ray passing parallel to the magnetic lines -j through the glass so placed, would have been affected by it. 2160. Magnetic lines, tben, in passing through silicated borate of lead, and a great number of other substances (2173.), cause these bodies to act upon a polarized ray of light when the lines are parallel to the ray, or in proportion as they are parallel to it: if they are perpendicular to the ray, they have no action upon it. rThey give the diamagnetic the power of rotating the ray; and the law of this action on light is, that if a magnetic line of force be going from a north pole, or coming from a south pole, along the patth of a polarized ray coining to the observer, it will rotate that ray to the right-hand; or, that if such a line of force be coming from a north pole, or gOiDg froi a south pole, it will rotate such a ray to the left-hand. ROTATION OF A RAY OF LIGHT BY -MVAGNETISM. 5 2161. If a cork or a cylinder of glass, representing the diamagnetic, be marked at its ends with the letters N and S, to represent the poles of a magnet the line joining these letters may be considered as a magnetic line of force; and further, if a line be traced round the cylinder with arrow heads on it to represent direction, as in the figure, such a simple model, a / held up before the eye, will express the whole of the law, and give KW2' every position and consequence of direction resulting from it. If a watch be considered as the diamagnetic, the; north pole of a magnet being imagined against the face, and a south pole against the back, then the motion of the hands will indicate the direction of rotation which a ray of light undergoes by magnetization. 2162. I will now proceed to the different circumstances which affect, limit, and define the extent and nature of this new power of action on light. 2163. In the first place, the rotation appear's to be in proportion to the extent of the diamagnetic through which the ray and the magnetic lines pass. Ipreserved the strength of the magnet and the interval between its poles constant, and then interposed different pieces of the same heavy glass (2151.) between the poles. The greater the extent of the diamagnetic in the line of the ray, whether in one, two, or three pieces, the greater was the rotation of the ray; and, as far as I could judge by these first experiments, the amount of rotation was exactly proportionate to the extent of diamagnetic through which the ray passed. No addition or diminution of the heavy glass on the side of the course of the rav made any difference in the effect of that part through which the ray passed. 2164. The power of rotating the ray of light increased with the intensity of the magnetic lines of force. This general effect is very easily ascertained by the use of electro-magnets; and within such range of power as I have employed, it appears to be directly proportionate to the intensity of the magnetic force. 2165. Other bodies, besides the heavy glass, possess the same power of becoming, under the influence of -magnetic force, active on light (2173.). When these bodies possess a rotative power of their own, as is the case with oil of turpentine, sugar, tartaric acid, tartrates, &c., the effect of the magnetic force is to add to, or subtract from, their specific force, according as the natural rotation and that induced by the -magnetism is right or left-handed (2231.). 2166. I could not perceive that this power was affected by any degree of motion which I was able to communicate to the diamagnetic, whilst jointly subject to the action of the magnetism and the light. 2167. The interposition of copper, lead, tin, silver, and other ordinary non-magnetic bodies in the course of the magnetic curves, either between, the pole and the diamagnetic, or in other positions, produced no effect either in kind or degree upon the phenomena. -2168. Iron frequently affected the restults in a very considerable degree; ;but it always appeared to be, either by altering the direction of the magnetic lines, or dis6 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) posing within itself of their force. Thus, when the two contrary poles were; on oIne side of the polarized ray (2150.), and the heavy glass in its bestposition between them and in the ray (2152.), the bringing of 'a large piece 'of iron near to the glass on the other side of the ray, caused the power of the diamagnetic to fall. This was because certain lines of magnetic force, which at first passed through the glass parallel to the ray, now crossed the glass and the ray; the iron giving two contrary poles opposite the poles of the magnet, and thus determining a new course for a certain portion of the magnetic power, and that across the polarized ray. 2169. Or, if the iron, instead of being applied on the opposite side of the glass, were applied on the same side with the magnet, either near it or in contact with it, then, again, the power of the diamagnetic fell, simply because the power of the-magnuet was diverted from it into a new direction. These, effects depend much lof course on the intensity and power of the magnet, and on the size and softness of the iron. 2170. The electro-helices (2190.) without the iron cores were very feeble in power, and indeed hardly sensible in their effect. With the iron cores they were powerful, though no more electricity was then passing through the coils than before (1071.). This shows, in a very simple manner, that' the phenomena exhibited by light under these circumstances, is directly connected with the magnetic forma of force supplied by the arrangement. Another effect which occurred illustrated the same point. When the contact 'at the voltaic battery is tirade, and the current sent round the electro-magnet, the image produced by the rotation of the polarized ray does not rise up to its full lustre imm1lediately, but increases foia couple of seconds, gradually acquiring its greatest intensity; on breaking the contact, it sinks instantly and disappears apparently at once. The gradual rise in brightness is due to the time whic'h thee iron core of the magnet requires to evolve all that magnetic power which the electric current can develope in it; and as the magnetism rises in intensity, so does its effect on the light increase in power; hence the progressive condition of the rotation. 2171. I cannot as yet find that the heavy glass (2151.), when in this state, i. e. with magnetic lines of force passing through it, exhibits any increased degree, or has any specific magneto-inductive action of the recognized kind. I have placed it in large quantities, and in different positions, between magnets and magnetic' needles, having at the time very delicate means of appreciating any difference between it and air, but could find none. 2172. Using water, alcohol, mercury, and other fluids contained in very large (lelicate thermometer-shaped vessels, I could not discover that any difference in volume occurred when the magnetic curves passed through them. 2173. It is time that I should pass to a consideration of this power of magnetism over light as exercisedP , not only in the silicated borate of lead (2151.), but in many ROTATION OF A RAY OF LIGHT BY MAGNETISM. 7 other substances and here we perceive, in the first place, that if all transparent bodies possess the power of exhibiting the action, they have it in very different degrees, and that up to there are some that have not shown it at all. 2174. Next, we may observe, that bodies that are exceedingly different to each other in chemical, physical, and mechanical properties, develope this effect; for solids and liquids, acids, alkalies, oils, water, alcohol, ether, all possess the power. 2175. And lastly, we may observe, that in all of them, though the degree of action may differ, still it is always the same in kind, being a rotative power over the ray of light; and further, the direction of the rotation is, in every case, independent of the nature or state of the substance, and dependent upon the direction of the magnetic line of force, according to the law before laid down (2160.). 2176. Amongst the substances in which this power of action is found, I have already distinguished the silico-borate of lead (2151.) as eminently fitted for the pumpose of exhibiting the phenomena. I regret that it should be the best, since it is not likely to be in the possession of many, and few will be induced to take the trouble of preparing it. If made, it should be well annealed, for otherwise the pieces will have considerable power of depolarizing light, and then the particular phenomena under consideration are much less strikingly observed. The borate of lead, however is a substance much more fusible, softening at the heat of boiling oil, and therefore far more easily prepared in the form of glass plates and annealed; and it possesses as much magneto-rotative power over light as the silico-borate itself. Flint-glass exhibits the property, but in a less degree than the substances above. Crown-glass shows it, but in a still smaller degree. 2177. Whilst employing crystalline bodies as diamagnetics, I generally gave them that position in which they did not affect the polarized ray, and then induced the magnetic curves through them. As a class, they seemed to resist the assumption of the rotating state. Bock-salt and fluor-spar gave evidence of the power in a slight degree; and I think that a crystal of alum did the same, but its ray length in the transparent part was so small that I could not ascertain the fact decisively. Two specimens of transparent fluor, lent me by Mr. TENNANT, gave the effect. -2178. Rock-crystal, four inches across, gave no indications of action on the ray, neither did smaller crystals, nor cubes about three-fourths of an inch in the side, which weie so cut as to have two of 'their faces perpendicular to the axis of the crystal (1692, 1693.), though they were examined in every direction. 2179. Iceland spar exhibited no signs of effect, either in the form of rhomboids, or of cubes like those just described (1695.). 2180. Sulphate of baryta, sulphate of lime, and carbonate of soda, were also without action on the light. 2181. A piece of fine clear ice gave me no effect. I cannot however say there is none, for the effect of water in the same mass would be very small, and the irregularity of the flattened surface from the fusion of the ice and flow of water, made. the observation very difficult. 8 DR. FARADAY'8 EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRiCITY. (SERIES XIX.) 2182. With-some degree of curiosity and hope, I put gold-leaf into the magnetic lines, but could perceive no effect. Considering the extremely small dimensionsof the length of the path of the polarized ray in it, any positive result was hardly to be expected. 2183. In experiments with liquids, a very good method of observing the effect, is to inclose them in bottles from I to 3 or 4 inches in diameter, placing these in succession between the magnetic poles (2150.), and bringing the analysing eye-piece so near to the bottle, that, by adj usti ent of the latter, its cylindrical form may cause a diffuse but useful image of the larnp-flarne to be seen through it: the light of this image is easily distinguished from that which passes by-irregular refraction through the, striae and deformations of the glass, and the phenomena being looked for in this light are easily seen. 2184. Water, alcohol, and ether, all show the effect; water 'most, alcohol less, and ether the least. All the fixed oils which I have tried, including almond, castor, olive, poppy, linseed, sperm, elaine from hog's lard, and distilled resin oil, produce it. The essential oils of turpentine, bitter altnonds, spike lavender, lavender, jessamine, cloves, and laurel, produce it. Also naphthaof various kinds, melted spermaceti, fused sul-e phur, chloride of sulphur, chlorides of arsenic, and every other liquid substance which I had at hand and could submit in sufficient bulk to experiment. 2185. Of aqueous solutions I tried 150 or more, including the soluble acids, alkalies and salts, with sugar, gumn, &c., the list of which would be too long to give hereo since the great conclusion was, that the exceeding diversity of substance caused no exception to the general result, for all the bodies showed the property. It isindeed more than probable, that in all these cases the water and not the other substance present was the ruling matter. The same general result was obtained with alcoholic solutions. 2186. Proceeding from liquids to air and gaseous bodies, I have here to state that, as yet, I have not been able to detect the exercise of this power in any-one of the substances in this class. I have tried the experiment with bottles 4 inches in diameter, and the following gases: oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, nitrous oxide, olefiant gas,. sulphurous acid, muriatic acid, carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, amronia, sulphuretted hydrogen, and bromine vapour, at ordinary temperatures; but they all gave negative results. With air, the trial has been carried, by another form of apparatus, to a much higher degree, but still ineffectually (2212.). 2187. Before -distnissing, the consideration of the substances which exhibited this power, and in reference to those in which-it was superinduced upon bodies possessing, naturally, rotative force (2165. 2231.), 1 may record, that the following are the substances submitted to experiment: castor oil, resin oil, oil of spike lavender, of laurel, Canada balsam alcoholic solution of camphor, alcoholic solution of camphor and cOirosive sublimate, aqueous solutions of sugar, tartaric acid, tartrate of soda, tartrate of, potassa and anti [nony, tartaric and boracic acid, and sulphlat~e of nickel, which rotated to the right-hand; copaiba balsam, which rotated the ray to the left-hand; and two ROTATION OF A RAY, OF LIGHT BY ELECTRIM FORCE. 9 specimens of camphine or oil of turpentine, in one of which the rotation was to the right-hand, and in the other to the left. In all these cases, as already said (2165.), the superinduced magnetic rotation was according to the general law (2160.), and without reference to the previous power of the body. 2188. Camphor being melted in a tube about an inch in diameter, exhibited high natural rotative force, but I could not discover that the magnetic curves induced additional force in it. It may be, however, that the shortness of the ray length and the quantity of coloured light left, even when the eye-piece was adjusted to the most favoura ble position for darkening the image produced by the naturally rotated ray, rendered the small magneto-power of the camphor insensible. ? ii. Action of electric currents on light. 2189. From a consideration of the nature and position of the-lines of magnetic -and electric force, and the relation of a magnet to a current of electricity, it appeared almost certain that an electric current would give the same result of action on light as a magnet; and, in the helix, would supply a form of apparatus in which great lengths of diamagnetics, and especially of such bodies as appeared to be but little affected between the poles of the Iagnet, might be submitted to examination and their effect exalted: this expectation was, by experiment, realized. 2190. Helices of copper wire were employed, three of which I will refer to. The first, or long helix, was 0 4 of an inch internal diameter; the wire was 0 03 of an inch in diameter, and having gone round the-axis from one endof the helix to the other, then returned in the same manner, forming a coil sixty-five inches long, double in its whole extent, and containing 1240 feet of wire. 2191. The second, or medium helix, is nineteen inches long, 1-87 inch internal diaineter, and three inches external diameter. The wire is 0-2 of an inch in diameter, and eighty feet in length, being disposed in the coil as two concentric {spirals. The electric current, in passing through it, is not divided, but traverses the whole length of the wire. 2192. Thlie third, or Woolwich helix, was [nade under my instruction for the use of Lieut.-Colonel SABINE'S establishment at Woolwich. It is 26-5 inches long, 2U5 inches internal diameter, and 4-75 inches external diameter. The wire is 0-17 of an inch in diameter, and 501 feet in length. It is disposed in the coil in four concentric spirals connected end to end, so that the whole of the electric current employed passes through all the wire. 2193. The long helix (2190.) acted very feebly on a magnetic needle placed at a little distance from it; the medium helix (2191.) acted mnores powerfully, and the Woolwich helix (2192.) very strongly; the saine battery of ten pairs of GROVE'S plate being employed in all cases. 2194. Solid bodies were easily subjected to the action of these electro-helices, being -for that purpose merely cut into the form of bears or prisms with fiat and polished MVcccxLVI. C 10 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) 'ends,'-and then introduced as cores into the helices. For the purpose of submitting liquid bodies to the same action, tubes of glass were provided, furnished athe--tends with caps; the cylindrical part of the cap was brass, and had, a tubula aperture for the introduction of the liquids, but the end was a flat glass plate. When the tube was intended to contain aqueous fluids, the plates were'attached to the caps, and the caps to the tube by Canada balsam; when the tube had to contain alcohol, ether or essential oils a thick mixture of powdered gum with a little water was employed as the.; cement. 2195. The general effect produced by this form of apparatus may be stated as follows :-The tube within the long helix (2190.) was filled with distilled water and placed in the line of the polarized ray, so that by examination through the eye-piece (2150.), the image of the lamp-flame produced by the ray could be seen through it. Then the eye-piece was turned until the image of the flame disappeared, and, afterwards, the current of ten pairs of plates sent through the helix; instantly the image of the flame reappeared, and continued as long as the electric current was passing through the helix; on stopping the current the image disappeared. The light did -not rise up 'gradually, as in the case of electro-magnets (2170.), but instantly. T'hese results could be produced at pleasure. In this experiment we may, I think, justly say that a ray of light is electrified and the electric forces illuminated. 2196.' The phenomena may be made more striking, by the adjustment of a lens of long focus between the tube and the polarizing mirror, or one of short focuis between the tube and'the eye; and where the helix, or the battery, or the substance experimented with, is 'feeble in power, such means offer assistance in working out the effects: but, after a little experience, they are easily dispensed with, and are only useful as accessories in doubtful cases. 92197. In cases where the effect is feeble, it is more easily perceived if the NICHOL eye-piece be adjusted, not to the perfect extinction of the ray, but a little short of or beyond that position; so that the image of the flame may be but just visible. Then, on the exertion of the power of the electric current, the light is either increased -.in intensity, or else diminished, or extinguished, or even re-illuminated on the other side of the dark condition; and this change is more easily perceived than if the eye began to observe from a state of utter darkness. Such a mode of observing also assists 'in -demonstrating the rotatory character of the action on light; for, if the light be made visible beforehand by the motion of the eye-piece in one direction, and the power, of the cutrrent be to increase that light, an instant only suffices, after stopping the current, to move the eye-piece in the other direction until the light is apparent as at first, -and then the power of the current will be to diminish it; the tints of the lights being affected also at the same time. 2198. When the current was sent round the helix in one direction, the rotatioin induced upon the ray of light was one way; and when the current was changed to the contrary direction, the rotation was the other way.. In oder to express thedAirecROTATION OF A RAY OF LIGHT BY ELECTRIC 'FORCE. 11 :,: I.will assume, as is usually done, that the current passes from the zinc through :the acid to the platinum in the same cell (663. 667. 1627.): if such a current pass under the ray towards the right, upwards on its right side, and over the ray towards the left, it will give left-handed rotation to it; or, if the current pass over the ray to, the right, down on the right side, and, under it towards the left, it will induce it to rotate to the right-hand. 2199. The LAW, therefore by which an electric current acts on a ray of light is -easily expressed. When an electric current passes round a ray of polarized lightin a plane perpendicular to the ray, it causes the ray to revolve on its axis, as long as it is under the influence of the current, in the same direction as that in which the current is passing. 2200. The simplicity of this law, and its identity with that given before, as ex pressing the action of magnetism on light (2160.), is very beautiful. A model is not wanted to assist the memory; but if that already described (2161.) be looked at, the line round it will express at the same time the direction both of the current and therotation. It will indeed do much more; for if the cylinder be considered as a piece of iron, and not a piece of glass or other diamnagnetic, placed between the two poles N and S. then the line round it will represent the direction of the currents, which, according to AMPHREs' theory, are moving round its particles; or if it be considered as a core of iron (in place of a core of water), having an electric current running round it in the direction of the line, it will also represent such a magnet as would be formed if it were placed between the poles whose marks are affixed to its ends. 2201. I will now notice certain points respecting the degree of this action under different circumstances. By using a tube of water (2194.) as long as the helix, but placing it so that more or less of the tube projected at either end of the helix, I was able, in some degree, to ascertain the effect of length of the diamagnetic, the force of the helix and current remaining the same. The greater the column of water subjected to the action of the helix, the greater was the rotation of the polarizedray; and the amount of rotation seemed to be directly proportionate to the length of fluid round' which the electric current passed. 2202. A short tube of water, or a piece of heavy glass, being placed in the axis of the Woolwich helix (2192.), seemed to produce equal effect on the ray of light, whether it were in the middle of the helix or at either end; provided it was always within the helix and in the line of the axis. From this it would appear that every part of the helix has the same effect; and, that by using long helices, substances may be submitted to this kind of examination which could not be placed in sufficient length between the poles of magnets (2150.). 2203. A tube of water as long as the Woolwich helix (2;192.), but only 0,4 of an inch in diameter, was placed in the helix parallel to the axis, but sometimes in the ;axis and sometimes near the side. No apparent difference was produced in these different situations; and I amt inclined to believe (withlout being quite sure) that the c 2 12 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) action on the ray is the same, wherever the tube is placed, within-the helix, in relation to the axis. The same result was obtained when a larger tube of water was looked through, whether the ray passed through the axis of the helix and tube, or near the Side. 2204. If bodies be introduced into the helix possessing, naturally, rotating force, then the rotating power given by the electric current is superinduced upon them, exactly as in the cases already described of-magnetic-action (2165. 2187.). 2205. A helix, twenty inches long and 0 3 of an inch in diameter, was made of uncovered copper wire, 0 05 of an inch in diameter, in close spirals. This was placed in a large tube of water, solthat the fluid, both in the inside and at the outside of the helix, could be examined by the polarized ray. When the current was sent through the helix, the water within it received rotating power; but no trace of such an action on the light was seen on the outside of the helix, even in the line most close to the uncovered wire. 2206. The water was inclosed in brass and copper tubes, but this alteration caused not the slightest change in the effect. 2207. The water in the brass tube was put into an iron tube, much longer than either the Woolwich helix or the brass tube, and quite one eighth of an inch thick in the side; yet when placed in the Woolwich helix (2192.), the water rotated the ray of light apparently as well as before. 2208. An iron bar, one inch square and longer than the helix, was put into the helix, and the small water tube (2203.) upon it. The water exerted as much action on the light as before. 2209. Three iron tubes, each twenty-seven inches long and one-eighth of an inch in thickness in the side, were selected of such diameters as to pass easily one into the other, and the whole into the Woolwich helix (2192.). The smaller one was supplied with glass ends and filled with water; Iand being placed -in the axis of the Woolwich helix, had a certainamount of rotating power over the polarizedray. The second tube was then -placed over this, so that there was now a thickness of iron equal to two-eighths of an inch between the water and the helix; the water had more power of rotation than before. On placing the third tube of iron over the two former, the power of the water fell, but was still very considerable. These results are complicated, being dependent on the new condition which the character of iron gives to its action on the forces. Up to a certain 'amount, by increasing the development of magnetic forces, the helix and core, as a whole, produce increased action on the water-; but on the addition of more iron and the disposal of the forces through it, their action is removed in part from the water and the rotation is lessened., 2210. Pieces of heavy glass (2151.), placed in iron tubes in the helices, produced similar effects. 2211. The bodies which were submitted to the action of an electric current in a helix, in the manner already described, were as follows :Heavy glass (2151. 2176.) ROTATION OF LIGHT BY MAGNETIC AND ELECTRIC FORCES. 13 water, solution of sulphate of soda, solution of tartaric acid, alcohol, ether, and oil of turpentine; all of which were affected, and acted on light exactly in the manner described in relation to magnetic action (2173.). 2212. I submitted air to the influence of these helices carefully and anxiously, but could not discover any trace of action on the polarized ray of light. I put the long helix (2190.) into the other two (2191. 2192.), and combined them all into one consistent series, so as to accumulate power, but could not observe any effect of them on light passing through air. 22,13. In the use of helices, it is necessary to be aware of one effect, which might otherwise cause confusion and trouble. At first, thee wire of the long helix (2190.) was wound directly upon the thin glass tube which served to contain the fluid. When the electric current passed through the helix it raised the temperature of the metal, and that gradually raised the temperature ofthe glass and'the film of water in contact with it, and so the cylinder of water, warmer at its surface than its axis, acted as a lens, gathering and sending' rays of light to the eye, and continuing to act for a time after the current was stopped. By separating the tube of water from the helix, and by other precautions, this source of confusion is easily avoided. 2214. Another point of which the experimenter'should be aware, is the difficulty, and almost impossibility, of obtaining a piece of 'glass which, especially after it is cut, does not depolarize light. When it does depolarize, difference of position makes an immense difference in the appearance. By always refe rring to the parts that do not depolarize, as the black cross, for instance, and by bringing the eye as near as nay be to the glass, this difficulty is more or less overcome. 2215. For the sake of supplying a general indication of the amount of this induced rotating force in. two or three bodies, and without any pretence of offering correct numbers, I will give, generally, the result of a few attempts to measure the force, and compare it with the natural power of a specimen of oil of turpentine. A very powelful electro-magnet was employed, with a constant distance between its poles of 24 inches. In this space was placed different substances; the amount of rotation of the eye-piece observed several times and the average taken, as expressing the rotation for the ray length of substance used. But as the substances were of different dimensions, the ray lengths were, by calculation, corrected to one standard length, upon the assumption that the power was proportionate to this' length (2163.). The oil of tur pentine was of course observed in its natural state, i. e. without magnetic action. Making water 1, the numbers were as follows:Oil of turpentine . . . 11 8 Heavy glass (2151.) . . 6-0 Flint-glass. 28 Rock salt ....... 2'2'' 14 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SE-RIES XIX.) Water ..0. Alcohol .less than water. Ether .less than alcohol. 2216. In relation to the action of magnetic and electric forces on light, I consider, that to know the conditions under which there is no apparent action is to add to our knowledge of their mutual relations ; and will, therefore, very briefly state how I have lately combined these forces, obtaining no apparent result (955.). 2217. Heavy glass, flint-glass, rock crystal, Iceland spar, oil of turpentine, and air, had a polarized ray passed through them; and, at the same time, lines of electrostatic tension (2149.) were, by means of coatings, the Leyden jar, and the electric ,machine, directed across the bodies, parallel to the polarized ray, and perpendicular to it, both in and across the plane of polarization; but without any visible effect. The tension of a rapidly recurring, induced secondary current, was also directed upon the same bodies and upon water (as an electrolyte), but with the same negative result. 2218. A polarized ray, powerful magnetic lines of force, and the electric lines of force (2149.) just described, were combined in various directions in their action on heavy glass (2151. 2176.), but with no other result than that due to the mutual action of the magnetic lines of light, already described in this paper. 2219. A polarized ray and electric currents were combined in every possible way in electrolytes (951-954). The substances used were distilled water, solution of sugar, dilute sulphuric acid, solution of sulphate of soda, using platinum electrodes; and solution of sulphate of copper, using copper electrodes: the current was sent along the ray, and perpendicular to it in two directions at right angles with each other; the ray was made to rotate, by altering the position of the polarizing mirror, that the plane of polarization might be varied; the current was used as a continuous current, as a rapidly intermitting current, and as a rapidly alternating double current of induction; but in no case was any trace of action perceived. 2220. Lastly, a ray of polarized light, electric currents, and magnetic lines of force, were directed in every possible way through dilute sulphuric acid and solution of sulphate of soda, but still with negative results, except in those positions where the phenomena already described were produced. In one arrangement, the current passed in the direction of radii from a central to a circumferential electrode, the contrary magnetic poles being placed above and below; and the arrangements were so good, that when the electric current was passing, the fluid rapidly rotated; but a polarized ray sent horizontally across this arrangement was not at all affected. Also, when the ray was sent vertically through it, and the eye-piece moved to correspond to the rotation impressed upon the ray in this position by the magnetic curves alone, the superinduction of the passage of the electric current made not the least difference in the effect upon the ray. RELATION OF LIGHT TO THE MAGNETIC FORCE. 15 ? iii. General considerations. 2221. Thus is established, I think for the first tinme*, a true, direct relation and dependence between light and the magnetic and electric forces; and thus a great addition made to -the facts and considerations which tend to prove that all natural forces are tied together, and have one common origin (2146.). It is, no doubt, difficult in the present state of our knowledge to express our expectation in exact terms; and. though I have said that another of the powers of nature is, in these experiments, directly related to the rest, I ought, perhaps, rather to say that another form of the great power is distinctly and directly related to the other forms; or, that the great power manifested by particular phenomena in particular forms, is here further identified and recognized, by the direct relation of its form of light to its forms of electricity and magnetism. 2222. The relation existing between polarized light and magnetism and electricity, is even more interesting than if it had been shown to exist with common light only. It cannot but extend to common light; and, as it belongs to light made, in a certain respect, more precise in its character and properties by polarization, it collates and connects it with these powers, in that duality of character which they possess, and yields an opening, which before was wanting to us, for the appliance of these powers to the investigation of the nature of this and other radiant agencies. 2223. Referring to the conventional distinction before made (2149.), it may be again stated, that it is the magnetic lines of force only which are effectual on the rays of light, and they only (in appearance) when parallel to the ray of light, or as they tend to parallelism with it. As, in reference to matter not magnetic after the manner of'iron, the phenomena of electric induction and electrolyzation show a vast superiority in the energy with which electric forces can act as comparedto magnetic forces, so here, in another direction and in the peculiar and correspondent effects which belong to magnetic forces, they are shown, in turn, to possess great superiority, -and to have their full equivalent of action on the same kind of matter. 2224. The magnetic forces do not act on the ray of light directly and without the intervention of matter, but through the mediation of the substance in which they and the ray have a simultaneous existence; the substances and the forces giving to and receiving from each other the power of acting on the light. This is shown by the* I say, for the first time, because I do not think that the experiments of MORRICHINI on the production of magnetism by the rays at the violet end of the spectrum prove any such relation. When in Rome with Sir H. DAVY in the month of May 1814, I spent several hours at the house of MORRICHINI, working with his apparatus and under his directions, but could not succeed in magnetising a needle. I have no confidence in the effect as a direct result of the action of the sun's rays; but think, that when it has occurred it has been secondary, incidental, and perhaps even accidental; a result that might well happen with a needle that was preserved during the whole experiment in a north and south position. January 2, 1846.-I should not have written "'for the first time" as above, if I had remembered Mr. CHRIS;riE's experiments and papers on the Influence of the Solar Rays on Magnets, communicated in the Philosophical Transactions for 1826, p. 219, and 1828, p. 379.-M. F. 16 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) non-action of a vacuum, of air or gases;, and it is also further shown by the special degree in which different matters possess the, property. That magnetic force acts upon the ray of light always with the same character of manner and in the same direction, independent of the different varieties of substance, or their states of solid or liquid, or their specific rotative force (2232.), shows that the magnetic force and thelight have a direct relation: but that substances are necessary, and that these act in different degrees, shows that the magnetism and the light act on each other through the intervention of the matter. 2225. Recognizing or perceiving matter only by its powers, and knowing nothing of any imaginary nucleus, abstract from the idea of these powers, the phenomena described in this paper much strengthen my inclination to trust in the views I have on a former occasion advanced in reference to its nature*. 2226. It cannot be doubted that the magnetic forces act upon and affect the internal constitution of the diamagnetic, just as freely in the dark as when a ray of light is passing through it; though the phenomena produced by light seem, as yet, to present the only means of observing this constitution and the change. Further, any such change as this must belong to opake bodies, such as wood, stone, and metal; for as diamagnetics, there is no distinction between them and those which are transparent. The degree of transparency can at the utmost, in this respect, only make a listinction between the individuals of a class. 2227. If the magnetic forces had made these bodies magnets, we could, by light, have examined a transparent magnet;and that would have been a great help to our investigation of the forces of matter. But it does not make them magnets (2171.), and therefore the molecular condition of these bodies, when in the state described, must be specifically distinct from that of magnetized iron, or other such matter, and must be a new magnetic condition; and as the condition is a state of tension (manifested by its instantaneous return to the normal state when the magnetic induction is removed), so theforce which the matter in this state possesses and its mode of action, must be to us a new magneticforce or mode of action of matter. 2228. For it is impossible, I think, to observe and see the action of magnetic forces, rising in intensity, upon a piece of heavy glass or a tube of water, without also perceiving that the latter acquire properties which are not only new to the substance, but are also in subjection to very definite and precise laws (2160. 2199.), and are equivalent in proportion to the magnetic forces producing them. 2229. Perhaps this state is a state of electric tension tending to a current; as in magnets, according to AMPERE'S theory, the state is a state of current. When a core of iron is put into a helix, every thing leads us to believe that currents of electricity are produced within it, which rotate or move in a plane perpendicular to the axis of thehelix. If a diamagnetic be placed in the same position, it acquires power to make light rotate in the same plane. The state it has received is a state of tension, but it* A speculation, &c. Philosophical Magazine, 1844, vol. xxiv. p. 136. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE MAGNETIC AND THE NATURAL ROTATION. 17 has not passed on into currents, though the acting force and every other circumstance and condition are the same as those. which do produce currents in iron, nickel, cobalt, and such other matters as are fitted to receive them. Hence the idea that there exists in diamagnetics, under such circumstances, a tendency to currents, is consistent with all the phenomena as yet described, and is further strengthened by the fact, that, leaving the loadstone or the electric current, which by inductive action is rendering a piece of iron, nickel, or cobalt. magnetic, perfectly unchanged, a mere change of temperature will take from these bodies their extra power, and make them pass into the common class of diamagnetics. 2230. The present is, I believe, the first time that the molecular condition of a body, required to produce the circular polarization of light, has been artificially given ; and it is therefore very interesting to consider this known state and condition of the body, comparing it with the relatively unknown state of those which possess the power. naturally: especially as some of the latter rotate to the right-hand and others to the left; and, as in the cases of quartz and oil of turpentine, the same body chemically speaking, being in the latter instance a liquid with particles; free to move, presents different specimens, some rotating one way and some the other. 2231. At first one would be inclined to conclude that the natural state and the state conferred by magnetic and electric forces must be the same, since the effect is the same; but on further consideration it seems very difficult to come to such a conclusion. Oil of turpentine will rotate a ray of light, the power depending upon its particles and not upon the arrangement of the mass. Whichever way a ray of polarized light passes through this fluid, it is rotated in the same manner; and rays passing in every possible direction through it simultaneously are all rotated with equal force and according to one common law of direction; i. e. either all right-handed or, else all to the left. Not so with the rotation superinduced on the same oil of turpen. tine by the magnetic or electric forces: it exists only in one direction, i. e. in a plane. perpendicular to the magnetic line; and being limited to this. plane, it can, be changed in direction by a reversal of the direction of the inducing force. The direction of the rotation produced by the natural state is connected invariably with the direction of the ray of light; but the power to produce it, appears to be possessed in every direction-and at all times by the particles of the fluid: the direction of the rotation produced by the induiced condition is connected invariably with the direction of the magnetic line or the electric current, and the condition is possessed by the particles. of nmatter, but. strictly limited by the line or the current, changing and disappearing with it., 2232. Let m, in fig. 3, represent a glass cell filled with oil of turpentine; possessing naturally the power of producing right-hand rotation, and-,a b a polarized ray of light. If the ray proceed from a to b, and the eye be placed at bZ the rotation will MDcccxLvI. D 18 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES xIX.) be right-handed, or according to the direction expressed by the Fig. 3. arrow heads on the circle c; if the ray proceedfrom b to a, and , the eye be placed at a, the rotation will still be right-handed to c. the observer, i. e. according to the direction indicated on the / circle d. Let now an electric current pass round the oil of VI turpentine in the direction indicated on the circle c, or magnetic / poles be placed so as to produce the same effect (2155.); the particles xvill acquire a further rotative force (which no motion amongst themselves will disturb), and a ray corning firom a to / b will be seen by an eye placed at b to rotate to the right-hand is' more than before, or in the direction on the circle c; but pass a ray from b to a, and observe with the eye at a, and the phenomenon is no longer the same as before; for instead of the new rotation being according to the direction indicated on the circle d, it will be in the contrary direction, or to the observer's left-hand (2199.). In fact the induced rotation will be added to the natural rotation as respects a ray passing from a to b, but it will be subtracted from the natural rotation as regards the ray passing from b to a. H-ence the particles of this fluid which rotate by virtue of their natural force, and those which rotate by virtue of the induced force, cannot be in the same condition. 2233. As respects the power of the oil of turpentine to rotate a ray in whatever direction it is passing through the liquid, it may well be, that though all the particles possess the power of rotating the light, only those whose planes of rotation are more or less perpendicular to the ray affect it; and that it is the resultant or sum of forces in any one direction which is active in producing rotation. But even then a striking difference remains, because the resultant in the same plane is not absolute in (lirection, but relative to the course of the ray, being in the one case as the circle c, and in the other as the circle d, fig. 3; whereas the resultant of the magnetic or electric induction is absolute, and not changing with the course of the ray being always either as expressed by c or else as indicated by d. 2234. All these differences, however, will doubtless disappear or come into harmony as these investigations are extended; and their very existence opens so many paths, by which we may pursue our inquiries, more and more deeply, into the powers and constitution of matter. 2235. Bodies having rotating power of themselves, do not seem by that to have a greater or a less tendency to assume a further degree of the same force under the influence of magnetic or electric power. 2236. Were it not for these and other differences, we might see an analogy between these bodies, which possess at all times the rotating power, as a specimen of quartz which rotates only in one plane, and 'those to which the power is given by the induction of other forces, as a prism of heavy glass In a helix, on the one hand.; and, on the other, a natural magnet and a helix through which the current is passing. MAGNETIC ROTATION OF LIGHT :-GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 19 The natural condition of the magnet and quartz, and the constrained condition of the helix and heavy glass, form the link of the analogy in one direction; whilst the supposition of currents existing in the magnet and helix, and only a tendency or tension to currents existing in the quartz and heavy glass, supplies the link in the transverse direction. 2237. As to those bodies which seem as yet to give no indication of the power over light, and therefore none of the assumption of the new magnetic conditions; these may be divided into two classes, the one including air, gases and vapours, and the other rock crystal, Iceland spar, and certain other crystalline bodies. As regards the latter class, I shall give, in the next series of these researches, proofs drawn from phenomena of an entirely different kind, that they do acquire the new magnetic condition; and these being so disposed of for the moment, I am inclined to believe that even air and gases have the power to assume the peculiar state, and even to affect light, but in a degree so small that as yet it has not been made sensible. Still the gaseous state is such a remarkable condition of matter, that we ought not too hastily to assume that the substances which, in the solid and liquid state, possess properties even general in character, always carry these into their gaseous condition. .2238. Rock-salt, fluor-spar, and, I think, alum, affect the ray of light; the other crystals experimented with did not; these are equiaxed and singly refracting, the others are unequiaxed and doubly refracting. Perhaps these instances, with that of the rotation of quartz, may even now indicate a relation between magnetism, elect i-' city, and the crystallizing forces of matter. 2239. All bodies are affected by helices as by magnets, and according to laws which show that the causes of the action are identical as well as the effects. This ,,result supplies another fine proof in favour of the identity of helices and magnets, according to the views of AMPERE. 2240. The theory of static induction which I formerly ventured to set forth'(1161, &c.), and which depends upon the action of the contiguous particles of the dielectric intervening between the inductric and the inducteous bodies, led me to expect that the same kind of dependence upon the intervening particles would be found to exist in magnetic action; and I published certain experiments and considerations on this point seven years ago (1709-1736.). I could not then discover any peculiar condition of the intervening substance or diamagnetic; 'but now that I have been able to make out such a state, which is not only a state of tension (2227.), but dependent entirely upon the magnetic lines which pass through the substance, I am more than ever encouraged to believe that the view then advanced is correct. 2241. Although the magnetic and electric forces appear to exert no power on the ordinary or on the depolarized ray of light, we can hardly doubt but that they have some special influence, which probably will soon b be made apparent by experiment. Neither can it be supposed otherwise than that the same kind of action should take place on the other forms of radiant agents as heat and chemical force. D 2 20 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XIX.) 2242. This mode of magnetic and electric action, and the phenomena presented by it, will, I hope, greatly assist hereafter in the investigation of the nature of transparent bodies, of light, of magnets, and their action one on another, or on magnetic substances. I am at this time engaged in investigating the new magnetic condition, and shall shortly send a further account of it to the Royal Society. What the possible effect of the force may be in the earth as a whole, or in magnets, or in relation to the sun, and what may be the best means of causing light to evolve electricity and magnetism, are thoughts continually pressing upon the mind; but it will be better to occupy both time and thought, aided by experiment, in the investigation and development of real truth, than to use them in the invention of suppositions which may or may not be founded on, or consistent with fact. Royal Institution, Oct. 29, 1845. 