r 52 XVIII. An Account of some Experiments on dff'erent Combinations of Fluoric Acid. By John Davy, Esq. Communicated By 'Sr Humphry Davy, Knt. LL. D. Sec. R. S. Read June ii, 1812. Introduction. Two years ago, I engaged, at the request of my brother, Sir H. DAVY, in an inquiry respecting the nature of common fluoric acid gas. My principal object was to ascertain whether silex is essential to its constitution, and whether the proportion is constantly the same. This subject, and experiments on the fluoric and fluoboracic acids, occupied me for about six months. Since that time, the work of M. M. GAY LuSSAc and THENARD has appeared, entitled " Recherches Physico-Chemiques," in the second volume of which is an elaborate dissertation on fluoric acid. These philosophers, I find, have anticipated many of my results, and consequently very much abridged my labour of detail in the following pages. To repeat what is already known would be useless, I shall therefore confine myself to describe what I have observed, which appears to me yet novel, or different from the observations of the French chemists. The order which I shall pursue, will be that which I observed in my experiments. I shall divide what I have to advance into four parts. The first part will relate to the silicated fluoric acid gas, and to the subsilicated fluoric acid; the second to the Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experiments, &c. S combinations of these acids, and of pure fluoric acid with ammonia; the third to fluoboracic acid; and the fourth to its ammoniacal salts. SECT. 1. On silicateduoric acid Gas, and subsilicatedftuoric Acid. The facts which have already been published by M. M. GAY LuSSAc and THENARD and others, appear to me to be sufficient to prove that pure fluoric acid has not yet been obtained in the gaseous state, and that silex, or boracic acid, is requisite that it may assume this form. Were more evidences necessary, I could advance many in point. One circumstance only I shall mention, proving that common fluoric acid gas is perfectly saturated with silex. I have preserved this gas, made by heating, in a glass retort, a mixture of fluor spar and sulphuric acid, for several weeks over mercury in a glass receiver uncoated with wax, without observing the slightest erosion to be produced.* This gas, with great propriety, has lately been called silicated fluoric. Before I proceed to its analysis, I shall notice what method I have found the best for obtaining it. I have, for a considerable time, long before M. M. GAY LuSSAc and THENARD'S work was published, added to the mixture of fluor spar and sulphuric acid, a quantity of finely pounded glass, and have thus procured the gas with the greatest facility. The advantages of this addition are considerable. The retort is saved, which otherwise, in less than one operation, would be * The sides of the receiver indeed became obscure; but this was not from erosion, but from deposition, as appeared from the transparency and polish of the glass being readily restored by slight friction. What the deposition was, I am ignorant of. After several weeks it was so trifling, as to give only a slight degree of opacity to the re* ceiver. 0,54 Mr, JI. DsAYsAccount of some Experimzens ts detroyedi; and a much larger quantity of gas is) procured from the same materials, and with less trouble and less heat; the action indeed at first is so powerful, that gas be-gins to come over before the application of heat is made, and a very gentle one only is required to continue its production. Previous to its analysis, it was necessary to ascertain the specific gravity of the gas. This I have endeavoured to do. The gas, the subject of experiment, was quite pure, being totally condensed, by water. A Florence flask was exhausted; in this state, weighed by a very delicate balance, it was 145.2 grains. Filled with common air -= 14522 + 10.2 Again exhausted = 1452.2 Filled with silicated fluoric gas = 1452.2 + 36.45 Hence as 10.2 : 31 :: 36.45:: 110.78. Thus it appears, that ioo cubic inches of silicated fluoric acid gas, at ordinary temperature and pressure, are equal to 110.78 grains. Whensilicated fluoric acid gas is condensed by water, it is well known that part only of the silex is deposited. To obtain the whole, in order to ascertain the proportion in the gas, I have employed ammonia in excess. 40 cubic inches of, the gas (barom. o30, therm. 6o) were transferred in portions of 10 cubic inches, at a time to a solution of ammonia. The silex precipitated was carefully collected on a filter, and washed till the water that passed through it, ceased to be affected by nitrat of lime. It was next dried, and strongly heated in a platina crucible. It weighed 27.2 grains, and was pure silex. Supposing fluoric acid to be the remaining 17.1 grains, which added to 27.2 grains are equivalent to the weight of 40 cubic on different C~orrbnhintns of Fluoric Acid. inches of the gas, it appears tat ioo parts y weight of this gas consist of ;,61.4 silex 38.6 fluoric acid 100.0 That this estimate may be correct, it is evident, that ammonia should have the property of precipitating the whole of the silex of silicated fluoric gas; whic I shal not now endeavour to prove, but leave "it to be consid-ered ih another part of the paper. There its no improbability attached to the idea, that silicated fluoric acid gas may, from the manner in which it is prepared, contain a proportion of alkali. To discover whether this was the case, a solution of nitrat of limfe was added to the amfoniacal solution neutralized by nitric acid, from which the silex in the preceding experiment had been -removed. The precipitate of fluat of lime was separated by filtraition The filtered liquid wasevaporated to dryness; and the ammoniacal salt heated in a platina crucible till it Was entirely dissipated:. The residue had the appearance and taste of quick lime. It was dissolved in acetic acid, and the solution yielded sulphat of lime on the addition of sulphat of ammonia. The liquid was evaporated to dryness, and when the residuum had been heated to dull redness, nothing remained but a little white powder, weighing about a grain, and having all the properties of gypsum. Thus it appears that silicated fluoric acid gas contains no alkali. My next object was to ascertain the c-omposition of common liquid filuoric acid-that acid obtained by the deco'mxposition of S,56 Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experinents silicated fluoric acid gas by water, and which, on account of the separation that occurs of part of the silex, may, with greater propriety, be called subsilicated fluoric acid. For this purpose, 43.21 cubic inches, barom. 30.4, therm. 50, or 44 cubic inches at common temperature and pressure, were successively added, two cubic inches at a time, to one cubic inch of distilled water in a small jar over mercury. The whole of this,,the gas being pure, was readily condensed. The temn. perature was somewhat raised. The silex precipitated, formed a gelatinous mass of a blueish colour, which had absorbed all the water like a sponge, so that none appeared fluid. This gelatinous mass was carefully transferred to a filter, and washed with distilled water till it was rendered insipid and incapable of reddening litmus paper. It retained its bl ueish hue only whilst moist. When dried and ignited, it was in thin lamelle, and of a snow-white colour, and surprisingly bulky. It weigh. ed 7.33 grains, and was found to be pure silex. Thus it appears that the subsilicated fluoric acid formed by the decomposition of 44 cubic inches of silicated fluoric acid gas contains 7. grainsof silex less than the gas itself. Consequently independent of water, which no doubt is essential to this acid, ico parts of it seem to consist of .54.56 silex 45.44 acid 100.00 I have endeavoured to ascertain what quantity of silicated Ifluoric acid gas a given quantity of water will condense. In one instance of a cubic inch of distilled water absorbed Ai cubic inches, barom. Soy. therm. 6o. The gas was added to on dzffieren Combinations of Fluoric Acid. the wvater in a jar over mercury, as fast as it was absorbed. The experimentl was stopped, when the gas, after having remained in contact with the water a whole night, ceased to be diminislhed. According to this result, the proper correction behn.g made for the additional pressure, water decomposes about 263 tinges its bulk of silicated fluoric acid gas. Dr. PRIESTLEY observed that muriatic acid gas reproduced silicated fluoric gas from the crust of -silex formed, when the latter is condensed by water.* This experiment I have repeated, and as it appears to show more correctly the quantity of gas water can condense, I shall describe the result. 2s4 cubic inches of muriatic gas were added to a drop of water, that had previouasly absorbed one cubic inch of silicated fluoric gas, in a jar over mercury. There was an immediate absorption equal to -. of a cubic inch. The mixture of silex and subsilicated fluoric acid effirvesced, and from an apparent solid became fluid, the whole of the silex gradually disappearing. After the first mentioned absorption, there was no farther. The gas produced was silicated, as appeared from the crust it deposited when removed to water, and the liquid formed was pure muriatic acid, for decomposed by concentrated sulphuric, it -affbrded merely muriatic acid gas, without any silicated fluoric. The evident conclusion from the preceding result is, that water condenses equal quantities of the muriatic and silicated fluoric acid gasses, and consequently that the first estimate is too low, and instead of 263 times its bulk it is probably more correct to say that water to-be saturated requires at least H65 times its volu-me. Neither will this estimate appear inconsistent with the former result, when theV Vide PRiESTLEY on Air, VQ1 I. p. 2oz.MDCCCXII. 3 A 358 Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experiments deposition of silex is considered as an obstacle to the free exposure of the surface of the water to the gas. Subsilicated fluoric acid is decomposed by ammonia and the fixed alkalies, and by all the earths that I have made trial of. It is also decomposed by the sulphuric acid and the boracic, as well as by the muriatic acid gas. Of the particular changes which occur when it is acted upon by the alkalies, I defer giving any account at present, as it is my intention to do it in the next section. To learn the effect of heat on it, a small quantity of strong acid, pure and transparent was introduced into a retort connected with mercury. A spirit lamp being applied about three cubic inches of silicated fluoric acid gas were produced. The neck of the retort was lined with silex in a gelatinous state, and much liquid subsilicated fluoric acid, that had distilled over, was condensed in the colder part of the neck, and was absorbed by bibulous paper previously introduced, to prevent the distilled fluid from entering the jar for the reception of the gas. When the whole of the acid in the bulb of the retort had been evaporated, little or no silex remained. The general result of this experiment is very different from that which Dr. PRIESTLEY, who first made it, obtained. Instead of silicated fluoric acid gas, he procured " vitriolic acid air," sulphureous acid gas. I have tried also the effect of heat on the silicious crust, formed by the decomposition of silicated fluoric acid gas, by water; but could obtain no sulphureous acid gas, as Dr. PRIESTLEY did only a small quantity of silicated fluoric. The correctness of Dr. PRIESTLEY'S observations cannot be doubted. I can only account for his results, by supposing that on diferent Combinations of Fluonic Acids. 3 some sulphuric acid in consequence of the high temperature employed in making the gas was volatilized, and mixed with the subsilicated fluoric acid, and that mercury also was present from the acid being prepared over this metal. These experiments too oppose another statement relative to a method prescribed for making fluoric acid gas free from silex, by merely heating strong subsilicated fluoric acid in a retort, and collecting the gas over mercury. It is asserted, in chemical works of some reputation, that this process is successful. I have never found it so, having always obtained results similar to those above stated. This, I suppose, is one of the many errors that have secretly crept into repute, and has been believed because never subjected to the test of experiment. The action of concentrated sulphuric acid on subsilicated fluoric acid, issimilar to that of muriatic acid gas, occasioning a disengagement of silicated fluoric acid gas. Facts which appear to prove, that water is absolutely essential tothe existence of this acid. Boracic acid decomposes it, in a very different way, not from any predominant affinity for the water, but in consequence of a stronger attraction for the fluoric acid itself. Silicated fluoric acid of course is not produced; but liquid fluoboracic acid and the silex is precipitated in a gelatinous state, as when ammonia is employed. These are the principal facts I have to notice respecting this acid. Before I conclude, I shall briefly mention a few other circumstances. Applied to the tongue, in its concentrated state, it produces a very painful sensation, like that which strong inuriatic acid; does, and it has a very similar effect on the cuticle. It does not appear to erode glass, for I have kept it in A 2 360 Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experiments bottles of this substance more than a month without any action being perceptible. Exposed to the air, it slowly and almost completely evaporates, there being only a very trifling silicious residue;e and when gently heated in an open vessel, it is rapidly dissipated in white fumes. SECT. In. On the Combinations of silicatedftuoric acid Gas, and the subsilicated Fluoric, and theftuoric Acids with Ammonia. M. GAY LUSSAC has shewn that silicated fluoric acid gs, like carbonic acid gas, condenses twice its volume of the volatile alkali** The experiment I have several times repeated, and constantly with the same result, no difference appearing when the acid gas was added in great excess to the alkaline, or the alkaline to the acid. This being the case, and knowing the specific gravities of the two gasses,+ ioo parts by weight of silicated fluat of ammonia seem to consist of 24.5 ammonia 7.5-5 acid 100.0 Silicated fluat of ammonia volatilizes unaltered, if heated by a spirit-lamp in the vessel in which it is formed, and provided moisture be entirely excluded. Like silicated fluoric acid gas itself, this salt is decomposed by water, and a similar precipitation of silex occurs, and in the same proportion. Thus the salt formed by the union of 30* Vide MCm. d'Arcueil, Tom. Il. t According to Sir H. DAVY, l0o cubic inches of ammonia, barom. go, therm. 6o, weigh I 8 grains. It is this estimate which I have taken. on diferent Combinations of Fluorc Acid. 36 cubic inches of silicated fluoric gas and 6o of volatile alkali (barom. so, therm. Co) in a small glass jar over mercury, being carefully collected and introduced into water, afforded five grains of pure silex, weighed after being well washed and heated to redness. The saline solution, since part of the silex of the silicated fluoric acid gas is separated during its production, appears to be a subsilicated fluat, or a combination of subsilicated fluoric acid and ammonia. Another mode of making it, mnore directly proves that this is its composition. When ammonia is added to the subsilicated fluoric acid in excess, this salt is formed without any precipitation. From these facts, it may be concluded, that independent of water, which appears to be essential to its existence, loo parts of it consist of 28.34, ammonia 7.t66 acid 100.00 Subsilicated fluat of ammonia has a pungent saline taste. It just perceptibly reddens litmus paper. Slowly evaporated, it forms small transparent and brilliant crystals. The largest I could obtain, appeared to be tetrahedral prisms. The solid salt is very soluble in water; but is not deliquescent. When heated it appears to sublime unaltered. It is curious that the solution of this salt, when evaporated by a heat near its boiling point, powerfully erodes the glass or porcelain vessel, and a residuum of silex appears, on the addition of water, to redissolve the salt. This erosion and residue of silex I have seen produced three times following, with the same quantity of salt. I mention the fact, which, I believe, was before observed by SCHEELE, Without S62 Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experiments attempting an explanation of it. Itmay perhaps be said, that as the water evaporates, the affinity of the subsilicated fluat for silex increases. Subsilicated fluat of ammonia is decomposed by the sulphuric acid, and by muriatic acid gas, and also by the fixed alkalies and by ammonia. Sulphuric acid expels fTom it, silicated fluoric gas and hy.drated fluoric acid fumes. Muriatic acid gas acts slowly on it, and effects its decomposition apparently through the mediuam of its water. A little of the crystalline salt was introduced into muriatic acid gas in a jar over mercury. In a short time some silicated gas was produced, as the silicious deposition, on the addition of water, indicated. Strong muriatic acid was substituted for the acid gas. Now no apparent change took place, for on evaporating the acid, the residue, decomposed by sulphuric acid, afforded only silicated fluoric acid gas. The alkalies form by the decomposition of this salt, the same compounds that they do by their action on subsilicated fluoric acid. Potash expels the ammonia, and produces the silicated fluat and fluat of potash, as M. M. GAY LusSAc and THENARD have described. The changes occasioned by soda appeared to me similar; but the gentlemen just mentioned, assert that this alkali precipitates the whole of the silex, and; does not form a triple salt with it and part of the acid. Ammonia seems to me to separate completely the silex, and by uniting with the pure acid to constitute a true fluat. MM. GAY LussAc and TRENARD are of a different opinion. They on dfferent Combinations of Fluoric Acid. 363 say that the whole of the -silex cannot by this method bex re. moved, but only the principal part. Their reason for this belief, is, that on repeatedly evaporating the salt after the addition of ammonia and redissolving it, they have each time observed a residue of silex. If they employed metallic evaporating vessels, the results of my experiments do not agree with theirs; for making use of platina for this purpose, and adding an ex. cess of ammonia, I never detected traces of silex on evaporating the filtered fluat. But our results agree, if they employed glass or porcelain vessels, which fluat of ammonia has the property of corroding. I now proceed to the consideration of fluat of ammonia; but before I describe some of the properties of this fluat which I have observed, I shall briefly mention the means pursued for ascertaining the proportions of its constituent parts. The composition of subsilicated fluat of ammonia being known, that of the fluat (granting what is already advanced respecting its formation to be correct) may be inferred from the proportion of silex, that a given quantity of ammonia will precipitate. 18 cubic inches of ammoniacal gas were condensed by of a cubic Inch of distilled water in a small glass tube over clean mercury. This ammoniacal solution was added to a clear filtered solution of subsilicated fluat of ammonia. A precipitate of silex was immediately produced. After several hours standing, this precipitate was collected on a filter, well washed and dried and heated to redness. It was pure silex, and weighed 1.6 grains. This experiment, like all the preceding,-was repeated, and the result contirmed, In both instances there was an excess of subsilicated fluat. The precipitations were made in a platina vessel, and the solutions were neither heated before or after S64 Mr. J. DAVY'S Account of some Experiments the separation of the silex. Calculating fron this result, ioo parts of fluat of ammonia seem to consist of 76.4 ammonia 13.6 fluoric acid 100.0 Water appears to be a constituent part of this salt. It may be rendered neutral by means of a gentle heat, which expels the excess of ammonia employed in its formation. In its neutral state, it has a strong saline taste, and it readily deliquesces when exposed to the atmosphere. Like the neutral carbonats, it is decomposed by heat; but there is this difference between them, part of the pure alkali is expelled instead of the acid, and an acid fluat of ammonia is formed. A gentle heat only is required for the purpose, that of boiling water is nearly sufficient. When the heat is much stronger, the salt fuses and passes off in dense fumes of a most peculiar sufocating odour. The effects of these fumes, when inhaled, are very powerful and disagreeable, and even dangerous, I might vend ture to say, were I to speak from my own experience. In one instance, when I inhaled only a small quantity, they produced in a few minutes a violent cough and catarrh, and apparent accumulation of blood in the neck and head, and symptoms altogether not unlike those the attendants of apoplexy, which continued for about a quarter of an hour, and then slowly diminished, and gradually disappeared wiJth%;ut leaving any permanent bad effect. The fluat of ammonia, when heated in a metallic vessel, appears to sublime unaltered. But the result is different when the experiment is made in a glass oncps Am. monia is expelled, the glass is corroded, and subsilicated fluat on dfferent Combinatios of Fluoric Acidd. of am monia is formed and sublimed. Its action on gass is so powerful, that I have successfully employed it instead of fluoric acid itself, for etching on this substance. It has one advan-tage, that it is more manageable. The solution may be ape plied by means of a: hair pencil or a common pen to the glass, -and the erosion will be produced by exposure to a moderate temperature. The fixed alkalies, and all the earths that I have tried, decompose t:his -salt; they expel the ammonia, and form true fluats with the acid itself. I have -examined all the fluats thus formed, and have endeavoured to ascertain the proportionsof their constituent parts ; but I am not sufficiently satisfied of the accuracy of the results, to venture to give an account of 'them. SECT.* Il. On Fluoboracic Acid Gas. MM. GAY LussAc and THENARD, who first discovered this gas, obtained it by heating strongly in an iron tube, a zmix-ture of fluor spar and fused bor-acic acid. I have found that it may be mare easily procured, in greater abundance, and at less expence, by gently heating, in a common glass retort, a mixture of finely pounded boracic acid * and fluor spar with concentrated sulphuric acid. i part by weight of fused boracic acid,-2 parts of fluor spar, and about i2 of sulphuric acid am pear to be the proportions best adapted for the purpose. This method will require no explanation when it is considered that boracic acid, as has already been observed, precipitates silex from -liquid subsilicated fluorii acid. If the heat is gentle, not * Common calcined borax answers the same end, but no so well. Its only recom. mendation to preference is cheapness. M;DCCCXfl S B sGG Mr. J. DAVY's Account of some ExpeinMents nearly sufficient to occasion the ebullition of the sulphuric acid, and the proportions just recommended are used, the retort will not be injured, and pure fluoboracic acid gas will be produced In abundance. When the gas ceases to come over, if the heat is raised, more will be evolved, and there will be distilled over at th.e same time, a viscid fluid, which is a compound of. sulphuric acid and fluoboracic acid gas. Now the operation should be stopped, if the Nobject is to obtain merely pure fluoboracic gas, a long continuation; of the heat producing some sili.. cated fluoric. Before quitting the subject, it should be observed that the quantity of sulphuric acid employed is of considerabl consequence to the success of the experiment. If too much is" used, there is a great loss of gas from the property which sulphuric acid has of absorbing fluoboracic acid gas; and if toolittle is employed, it soon becomes diluted, and loses the power of generating; the gas, though it may still decompose the fluor spar. Both extremes, therefore, are to be avoided, and the proportion of acid mentioned above, as far as my experience goes, appears to be the best. I have endeavoured to ascertain the specific gravity of fluff boracic. gas. The flask exhausted weighed 1400.5 grains.Filled with common air 14005 + 6.2 Again exhausted -n 1400.5 Filled with pure acid gas 1400X + 14.7. Thus it appears that -oo cubic inches of fluoboracic gas are equal to 73.5 grains. M M. GAY LUSSAC and TnENARD have described the come pound of this gas and water, a fuming fluid, in many respects similar to concentrated sulphuric acid. Like this acid, I have on diferent Combinations of Fluoric Aizd. 267 observed that it possesses a slight degree of tenacity, so that it has an oily appearance when poured from one vessel to another; and similar in another respect, it possesses the property of charring animal and vegetable substances, and which the French chemists observed belonging to the gas itself. I have found that water condenses more of this, than it does of any other known gas, no less than 7oo times its volume. The experiment was then made, barom. 0o.5, therm. 5o, Y of a -cubic inch of water were introduced into a tube over mercury, and the gas, in portions of 5 cubic inches at a time, was added until ic0 cubic inches had been absorbed when the water was apparently saturated. This acid was of the specific gravity 1.77. The property which sulphuric acid has of absorbing fluoboracic acid gas has already been noticed. -I found that 2 cubic inch of sulphuric acid, of the specific gravity i.85, condensed s cubic inches of the gas, or So times its volume. The come pound acid was strongly fuming, and appeared more tenacious than pure sulphuric acid, yet not nearly so much so as that compound of the two which distills over during the latter part of the operation of making fluoboracic gas. This latter compound has some peculiarities. It is so tena* cious, that it flows, very slowly. It appears to be far more volatile than pure sulphuric acid. When poured into water, a dense white precipitate is formed, the exact nature of which I have not yet satisfactorily ascertained; but which is not produced by the direct compound of sulphuric acid, and the fluoboracic, 13 s -68 Mr. J. DAvY'1 'Account: of soine Experisnsitts SECT. IV. On the Combinations offitoboracic acid Gas, anc4"' ammnoniacal Gas. M. GAY LuSSAc has combined fluoboracic acid gas with ammonia. -Hestates, that equal volumes of the two gassescondense each other.* This I. have found to be the case, and' I have also found that fluoboracic acid gas condenses twice, and even three time's its volume of the volatile alkali. The compound observed by M. GAY LUSSAC is solid, white, and. opaque, like the ammoniacal salts. The combinations I have obtained -are liquid, transparent, and colourless, like water, though they are entirely free from this fluid. They were made by the, direct union of the two gasses. 5 cubic inches of amnmoniacal gas were added to the same volume of the fluoboracic gas contained ina small jar over dry mercury. There was a complete condensation of both, and the solid salt was the result. 5 cubic inches more of ammonia were introduced. The whole was quickly absorbed, and the solid salt was converted into the transparent fluid. 5 cubic inches more were added, which too were slowly absorbed,, but without any change of form. The solid salt volatilizes in close vessels unaltered, on the application of a gentle heat. Both fluid compounds, when heated, are rendered. solid, from the expulsion of part of the ammonia. Exposure to the air is attended with the same change, and. the same effect is produced by the muriatic and carbonic acid gasses.. Knowing the volumes of the acid, and alkaline gasses whichz* Vide Meam. d'Arcueil, Toin. 11. on d/ferent Combinations of Fluoric Acid. combine, it is easy to calculate the proportions of each by weight in the respective salts. Ioo Parts consist of Ammonia. Acid. The solid compound 19.64 80.32 The first fluid 2.9 67.1 jThe second fluid2l 4 576 These combinations are curious in many points of view. They are the first salts that have been observed liquid, at the common temperature of the atmosphere, without containing. water. And they are additional facts in support of the docW trine of definite proportions, and of the relation of volumes.. 