[425] De Urinis, Pulsibus; de Missione Sanguinis; de Febribus; de Morbis Capitis; & Pectoris: Opus Laurentij Bellini: Bononiae 1683. THe Author dedicates this book to his Master Seignior Redi: and, in his Preface to the Reader, mentions another peice he has before him, [concerning the nature of sensitive beings, and by what necessary means they operate;] the titles of several of the chapters in it, are here premised; as a tast of that, of which we hope in a little time, to have a more full enjoyment. In his Treatise of Urine, he writes of it first in general, and in its natural state; his way of examining it, is by evaporation, which gives us a very salt, thick, and black Sediment, that tinges of a Golden colour; and which, (by the addition of as much water as was evaporated off) may be reduced to a liquor not (easily) to be distinguisht from the natural Urine. From whence he concludes, that the principles of Urine are Salt, Earth, and Water, and that the Fluidity, Saltness, and Colour of it, depend on the proportion of the latter to the two former. 2 He writes of the preternatural Urine: 3 Of jndgment to be made from the inspection of Urine: 4 He comments on some places of Hippocrates concerning this subject. In his second tract he treats of the necessity, the nature, and the several sorts, of pulses; he shews how great regard Hippocrates had to the pulse, tho some moderns would persuade us to the contrary; and gives Gallen's account of it. In his Treatise of Bleeding, he proves 1st. that in the time of Bleeding, the blood runs faster then ordinary, in the Artery that answers to the Vein opened. 2 That the motion of the Blood after bleeding, is swifter then before it, slower then in it. K k k 2 3 That [426] 3 That, in bleeding, the blood acquires a new disposition, (which may on a sudden give occasion to a distemper) sometimes evacuations are stopt, sometimes caused, and an irregular Pulse oftentimes becomes regular; a natural Pulse less, and swifter. 4 He explains how Leipothymies happen in bleeding on the account of fear, or the emission of two much blood, and several other ways. 5 He says that one great effect of bleeding, is, the bringing down into the greater channels, what before stuck in the Capillaries, and that this is more or less, in proportion to the quantity taken off, and the largeness of the stream. 6 If a part affected requires bleeding, he says, tis generally best to open a veinof the side opposite to that part. 7 He proves that the circular motion of the blood is swifter in Arteriotomy, then in Venesection; that the former cools sooner then the latter, and prevails more towards the bringing off what ever is lodgd in the Capillary vessels. 8 He says the best bleeding is at some little Artery, the blood being brought to the part in a greater quantity then ordinary, by Friction, Bathing, Cupping, &c. 9 He tells us what things may supply the place of bleeding, as Abstinence, Alteratives, &c. Such of them as act in a violent manner he calls Stimuli, of which he treats, first in general, then in particular, as of the sudden plucking out of Hair, the wresting of Fingers, Titillations, Smells, of the Epicrusis of Galen, the Fricationes, Sinapismi, the Dropax Compositum, Cauteries, Issues, Setons, and Blisters: He treats of Medicaments in general; shews how far Purging, Cerecloths, Plaisters, Liniments, Cataplasms; how far Mercurial Inunctions, Sudorifics, Diuretics, Vomits, Expectorating Medicines, how far Apophlegmatisms, Sternutatories, and Repellers, have the same effects with Bleeding, an l at last concludes that no one of them cures with that safety and expedition which accompanies Bleeding. 10 He [427] 10 He says the safest time to Bleed in Feavors, is at the declination. 11 He proposes some problems for the finding out the just quantity of Blood, which may be taken from any person without injury. In his discourse of Feavers, he gives the several divisions of them, then describes them as they appear to the senses, giving an account of the Antecedentia, the Conjuncta, and the Succedentia of each of them; after which he enquires into the nature and causes, of Feavors; proving that they arise from some fault of the Blood, either as to its Motion, Quantity, or Quality, but most commonly from a ~ Ma ter, lodgd in the Capillary Vessels, and so causing a Coldness, shakings, &c. afterwards sinking into the greater Vessels, and there causing heats, &c. sometimes returnin to, and lodging again in, the Capillaries as in Agues. In his tract de Morbis Capitis, he speaks of the Apo plexy, of which he gives the Antecedentia, the Conjuncta, and the Succedentia; he explains the Symptoms, enquires into the causes, and at last gives the definition of the distemper: In like manner he discourses of the Carus, Coma Somnolentum, Lethargus, Coma Vigil, Phrenitis, Paraphrenitis, Mania, Melancholia, Paralysis, Convulsio, (where he explains the nature of Horrors and Rigors) and of the Epilepsy: He discourses of Pain in general, the several sorts of it, and in particular of the Pain of the Head; of the Vertigo, Catoche, Incubus, and of Catarrhs. In his treatise de Morbis Pectoris, he writes of the Intermissio Pulsus, Asphyxia, Leipothymia, Syncope, Virium Inbecillitas, Palpitatio Cordis, Peripneumonia, Pleuritis, Inflamatio Diaphragmatis, Empyema, Tussis, Vomica Pulmonis, (where he mentions a Vomica Sympathica, proceeding from a thick glutinous blood, setled in the Lungs; with which distemper (the Author says) he himself [428] self has formerly been troubled) He discourses also of the Hemoptoe, Difficilis Respiratio, and the Angina; in all which he observes the method of the former tract, and is very copious in explaining Symptoms; but contents himself (chiefly) with Theory, as well in this, as in the two preceding discourses. An account of a Book Entitled [Memoirs for the Natural History of Human Blood, especially the Spirit of that Liquor: by the Honorable Robert Boyle Esq; Fellow of the Royal Society London. 1683.] THe honourable Author well known to the World, by his noble Birth, and Learned Writings, having formerly obliged us with several experimental Histories, beside many other elaborate discourses; Is now pleased to ingage us farther to him, by giving us rules, how to frame, and by bringing in a great stock of materials for, a Natural History of Human Blood, and the spirit of it, in doing which, he observes this method; the Book being divided into four parts, in the first of these he lays down some Rules, concerning the way of compiling the natural History of any particular Subject; where he proposes, that whatever occurs, concerning the Subject to be treated off may be rankt under several Orders, or Classes, agreeing in the general names of Titles: the first or Primary, order, the Author would have to consist of such Titles,as shall comprehend the whole matter of the Subject, as it appears at first view: but when the matter of any Primary Title encreases on your hands, it will be proper that That also should be divided, according to its own nature, into several subordinate Branches, or Secondary Titles And [429] And further he says it will be useful that a Mantissa should be subjoyn'd to the first Edition of the Titles, consisting of Paralipomena, (or such things as might claim place under some one of the Titles, but were omitted,) and Addenda; (or such things, as could not conveniently have been brought in under any one of the Titles, and yet belong to the Subject:) Pursuant to which method the Author gives us the Titles of the first Order, for he Natural History of Human Blood of healthy Men; and has also chalkt out a way for the natural History of Urine. The 2 part contains miscellanious Experiments, and Observations, about Human Blood, referable to some one of the Titles of the first Order: thus he treats of the heat of Human Blood freshly emitted; of the Inflamability; of the Specific Gravity; of the Volatile Salt, of Human Blood, and its figure; of the two Cyls; of the fixt Salt, (which is like Sea-salt,) of the Terra Damnata; of the proportion of differing substances Chymically obtaind from Human Blood. The 3 part contains promiscuous Experiments and Observations, about the Serum of healthy mens Blood. The 4th part contains the History of the Spirit of human blood begun; and is a summary of the History of volatile Salts in general; under these (secondary) titles. 1 Whether human blood may be so ordered by Fermentation, or Putrefaction, as that in Distillation, a Spirit, either Urinous, or Vinose, may ascend before the Phlegm? 2 Whether Spirit of human blood be really any thing, but the volatile Salt, and Phlegm well comixt? 3 Of the species of saline bodies, to which the Spirit of human blood is to be referd. 4 Whether Spirit of human blood be differing from Spirit of Urine, and other Spirits that are call'd Volatile Alcalies? 12 Of [430] 5 Of the quantity of Spirit containd in human blood, whether accompanied with its serum, or dried? 6 Of the consistence, and specific, Gravity; 7 Of the Odor, Tast, Color, and transparency; 8 Of the Dissolutive Power, of Spirit of human blood; 9 Of the tinctures that may be drawn with Spirit of human blood: 10 Of the Coagulating Power; 11 Of the Precipitating Power, of Spirit of human blood. 12 Of the Affinity between Spirit of human blood, and some Chymical Oyls, and Vinose Spirits: 13 Of the Relation between Spirit of human blood, and the Air. 14 Of the Hostility of the Spirit of human blood to Acids, whether they be in the form of Liquors, or Fumes. 15 Of the Medicinal virtues of the Spirit of human blood applied Outwardly, and 16 Inwardly. After which there follows the Appendix, where among other things, under the Title [of the several ways of distilling human blood] which may be lookt on as one of the Primary Titles, the Author gives an account of his success in the distilling three portions of dried blood, each with a different Additament, as which Quicklime, Calcind Tartar, and Oyl of Vitriol. An 