(611) The W I S D O M of G O D manifested in the Works of the Creation; in Two Parts. By John Ray, Fellow of the Royal Society. The Second Edition very much enlarged. London, Printed for Samuel Smith: in 80. 1692. THE Design of our Author in this Treatise, is manifest by the Title it self, which he endeavours to make good from several Heads, as first, from the Multitude of the Creatures, caelestial and terrestrial, and from the possibility, that the fixt Stars may be so many Suns, attended with the like Train as we find our Center, the Ruler of our Motions, is accompanied with. Hence he proceeds to guess at the number of Terrestriat Bodies, animate and inanimate: Of Beasts known and described about 150; of Birds about 500; and of Fishes the like number; Insects are more numerous; of Butterflies and Beetles 300; and if Caterpillars are reckon'd as a distinct Species, that number is doubled, and the Fly-kind at least equals both the other: Creeping Insects very numerous. In short, if as he conje ctures the British Insects amount to 2000 the total sum of those of the whole Earth may be 20000, if they hold the same proportion as the British and ~ Plants do. Of Plants, he thinks, there are not fewer in the World than 18000: And lastly, of Fossiles, Stones, and the like, he gives no guess at their number, but concludes it very great. Next he proceeds to censure the ~, Epicurean, and ~ Hypotheses, as uncapable of explaining the Phaenomena of Nature; and for the formation of the Bodies of Animals, he has recourse to the Sensitive Soul, ~ it be immaterial; but if material, to a Plastick Nature. And here he treats in short of the Souls of Brutes. At the 48th Page he seems to encline to the Atomical Hypothesis, as to the ranging inanimate Bodies, and explaining some of their Operations. Our Author then enters into a more particular Account of some of the Creatures as the Sun, Moon, &c. and holds the gravitating Principle to be the Band that keeps the Universe in order, though he attempts not to explain what it is, or how caused. He proceeds to the Uses of the four Elements, as Fire, Air, Water, and Earth, hinting at the life of the Faetus in ~, pag 65. and from the motion of the Water gives the reason why most Water-Plants grow flat, their edges more easily cutting the Stream, than if they were round. He then touches upon the ~, as Rain, Wind, &c. and next of inanimate Bodies; where,as to formed ~ he determines not the business of Petrification, enlarging upon the use of the Loadstone. He proceeds to ~. ~ As (612) As to Plants, he refers their Constancy in continuing their Species to a Plastick Nature, as well as their Stature, Figure, and the like, and ends with the uses of the several parts thereof. Treating of Animals, he thinks it probable, that the Females as well of Beasts as Birds, have in them, from their first formation, the Seeds of all the young they shall ever produce; and sets it down as a manifest Argument of Divine Providence, that Birds are not vivaparous, so as that they have no hindrance in their flying and way of living: Observing further the strange Memory and Order Birds have in feeding their Young, not omitting or forgetting one, but feeding them all gradually; with several other curious Remarks of the building of their Nests, Brooding, &c. and by the way treating of the ~ afforded by the Glands of the Stomach, he hints at the notable Vertue of the insipid Saliva, in its killing Quicksilver, fermenting Dough, taking away Warts, &c. He admires the Curiosity and Contrivance of the Honeycomb, and particularly the Tree-Bee, which Insect he describes, with the manner of its generation. He proceeds to Quadrupedes, and concludes this Head with the fitness of the Parts of several Animals, for their particular Natures and ways of living, viz. in the Mole, Antbear, Chamaelion, Woodpecker, and Swallow; observing that the reason why Swallows fly low before Rain may be from the Insects, which they prey upon, which being sensible of the Vapors of the superiour Regions of the Air, descend nearer to the Earth at such times. Next, that the Parts of Birds are all fitted for flying, as those of Fish are for swimming; observing, that though no Land-Fowl have short Necks and long Legs, yet the contrary is seen in many whole-footed Water-fowl, Nature providing them with a long Neck, that they may fish therewith at the bottom of the Water. Next our Author answers an Objection too long to be here inserted; and having touch'd upon some other Heads, as the Discoveries made by Dr. Hooke, and Mr. Lewenhoek, by the Microscope, in minute Animals and their parts, he proceeds to some Practical Inferences, and having selected two particular Pieces to insist more largely upon, viz. The whole Body of the Earth; as to which, he remarks its Spherical Figure fitted for Motion and Strength, and shews its diurnal and annual motions no way dissonant to the Scriptures. Coming to the outward face thereof, he instances in the admirable use of some Plants, and concludes this first Part with the necessiry of Mountains, for the production of Springs and Minerals, the Conveniencies for Habitation, delightful Prospects, production of variety of Plants, entertainment and maintenance of several Beasts, Birds, and Insects, with the hindering the evagation of Vapours to the North and South, from the hot Countries, where they are most needful. In the Second Part of this Work our Author prosecutes the same subject from the consideration of Man, and that from eight general Observations, 1st, Of his Erect Posture, which he shews to be natural from the length of the Legs, and strength of their Muscles, position of the Face, &c. 2dly, In that nothing is wanting, or redundant. 3dly, The Parts are most conveniently placed for use and ornament. 4ly, The Provision made for the Security of the Principals, as the Heart, Brain, and Lungs. 5ly, The most useful parts being provided against Accidents, by their being in pairs; and the many ~ they have to get rid of what offends them. 6ly, The Con(613) Constancy observed in the principal ~ which cannot proceed from Chance, whereas there is a great variety in the less necessary, as in the Ramifications of the Veins, Arteries, and Nerves, wherein Nature seems to sport her self. 7ly, Pleasure annext to those actions that support the individuum, as Eating, Drinking, and those that continue the Species. 8ly, The Multi tude of Intentions to be regarded in the forming of our Bodies for the various motions and operations thereof. Coming to particulars, he observes the great Variety in the Faces of Men, and the Capacity of the Head from its Spherical Figure, to contain a large Brain: In the next place he enlarges on the Eye, and its several parts endeavouring at a reason why Objects seem not inverted, though they are so painted on the Retina, which seems to need a farther Explication. He observes from Nuck's Experiment on a Dogs-Eye, that the Aqueous Humor is repairable, as being most subject to Casualties. As to the Ear, he observes, that if the external Ear (which by degrees contracts and draws the sound inwards) be cut off, the Hearing has been much impaired, if not quite spoiled; and takes notice of the alteration of its Figure from the distance of the Sound he refers for a more particular Explication of this part, and its use to ~ Du Verney's Treatise of the Ear. Next as to the Teeth, having recapitulated Mr. Boyl's Seven Observations of them, he adds, That the Molares are placed nearest to the Center of Motion, where there is the greater strength required. And lastly, The motion of the Jaws is transverse, as most proper for chewing. Treating of the Tongue, he notes with Des Cartes, that Brutes have no cogitation since none of them can be brought to signific their Conceptions by artificial Signs, either Words or Gestures, the Signs which they use being motions of some of the Passions. Having touched at the use of the Saliva, for digestion of the Food, he observes the Annular Formation of the Windpipe, whose Rings are not entire, lest it should press too hard upon the Gullet Treating of the Heart, he allows it not to be conservatory of the vital Flame, the Lungs serving rather for the accension and maintaining of that Flame, but shews its admirable contrivance from its Muscles, Valves, and the like, to be a proper Machine to continue the circulation of the Blood, assisted much by the quadruple Coat of the Arteries, especially its third or musculous one, first discovered by Dr. Willis, effecting a Constriction, or kind of Peristaltick Motion. Having treated of the Structure and Uses of the Hand, and of the Vertebrae of the Back-bone, he observes the Provision that is made for the more easie motion of all the Joynts, and prevention of heating and fretting, by an oily and a mucilaginous Juice. There are several other Remarks on the Thorax, Belly, Bladder, Liver, Kianeys, and the like, which I omit; and coming to the Bones and Muscles, he affirms, that there seems to be therein more Geometry than in all the artificial Engines in the World. Which he leaves to the Mathematicians to handle, as has been attempted by ~ and others. Our Author waves the consideration of the Formation of the ~, and supposes Impregnation to proceed from some contagious Vavour, or ~ ~ of the Male Seed. Which he believes have a great stroke in generation, in that the Mule and other Creatures most resemble the Male Parent. Taking occasion here to speak of spontaneous Generation, he affirms, that there ~ no such thing in Nature ~ but that all, nay, the most ~ Insect, ~ ~ ~ gene (614) generated by the Animal Parents of the same Species. The same he confirms as to Plants, by an Experiment of Malpigius, who covered Earth taken from a deep place with Silk many times doubled, which though it admitted the Air and Water, yet produced not any Plant; and concludes, that a spontaneous Generation of Animals and Plants will be found, upon due examination, to be nothing less than a Creation of them. He enforces this Opinion by the Suffrages of the most Experienc'd in this matter, as Swammerdam, Malpighi, Lister, ~c. For this he brings several Arguments, and answers the most material Objections, and as for the raining of Frogs and other Insects, he believes it with the same Faith, as that Spanish Gennets are begotten by the Winds, since each Story is attested, as he says, by good Authors, and he that can swallow this, hath, he thinks, made a fair step towards believing it may rain Calves too, since it is reported that one sell out of the Clouds in Avicenna's time. Here he takes notice of the long Venereal Embrace of the Frogs, for at least a whole month indesinently. As to Insects produced in Animal Bodies, he concludes them not spontaneous, from their exact agreement, and perpetual similitude, in the shape and figure of their Bodies, and concludes, that the Eggs which produce them are taken in with the Food of the Animal in which they are found. In the next place he gives several Miscellaneous Observations of the Structure, Actions, and Uses of some Parts of Animals, omitted in the precedent Discourses; as, That God effects the same thing by different means instanced in the Varieties of Digestions in the Stomachs of several Animals, and the like. By the way he says, that Swine wallow in the Mire, and Poultry bask themselves in the Dust, not to cool themselves, but to destroy and choak the Lice and other importunate Insects. Our Author has other Observables touching Respiration, the Foramen Ovale in amphibious Animals, the Epiglottis, which part the Elephant has not, neither needs it, there being no Communication betwixt his Lungs and Oesophagus. Some Instances of the Sagacity of the Tortoise; of theirs and the ~ Armour, which latter contracts it self into a rouud Ball, by the means of a notable Muscle on each side, consisting of many Fibres, decussating each other like the letter X. Next he hints at the Uses of the Fat, and the nictating Membrane in the Eyes of Beasts, and Birds, transcribing a large account of this part out of the Parisian Anatomy of Animals. Next of the sudden growth of Flesh-Flyes, which he finds necessary for their production; with some Particularities touching other Animals. He conjectures, that Cartilagineous Fish raise and sink themselves to any Depth, by the Water which they take in and let out again at pleasure, by the help of Muscles for that purpose, at two holes in the lower part of their Belly. Speaking of Plants, he says, it is the descending Juice which is taken in by the Leaves that nourishes both the Fruit and Plant. There are several other particulars worth the Reader's perusal, and after all he concludes with many practical Inferences and Deductions from the whole. The whole Treatlse, though it be of a Philosophical Nature, seems to be of great use for such as make popular Discourses; and as it is not far above the Capacity of the Meaner, so there are several Passages that will at least give hints and assistance to the greatest Theologues. Three (615) Three Physico-Theological Discourses, concerning, 1. The Primitive Chaos, and Creation of the World. 2. The General Deluge, its Causes and Effects. 3. The Dissolution of the World. By John Ray, S. R. S. The Second Edition. Lond. printed for Samuel Smith, 80. 1693. IN the first Discourse concerning the Chaos, (the Notlon whereof our Author asserts in his Preface to be divinely ~) he produces the Testimonies of several Heathen Writers, to prove the production of all things out of it, (which they looked upon self-existent, and unproduced, as he thinks, erroneously) which Opinion he shews consentaneous to Moses, there being a gradual formation of things related, which were all produced, as he supposes, out of prae-existing Seeds, which he says were first created by God. As to the separation of the Land and Water, which at first covered the face of the Earth: He proposes, that it might be effected by the same Causes which raise Mountains now, viz. Subterraneous Fires and Flatus's, such as Ovid in the 15th Metamorph. describes near the City Traezen; and a later Instance near Puzzuolo, of a new Mountain; which last he describes from his own observation. He mentions several other Hills raised, and now ost-shaken by Earthquakes and Subterraneous Fires as the Andes, Aips, ~c. Taking notice of an extraordinary one, which in the time of Valentinian shook the whole World, with some Passages out of Strabo and others, he shews from a Passage out of Julius Ethnicus, and Father Kircher, that there may be a Communication from one burning Mountain to another, though at a great distance, by Vaults under the Sea; the bottom whereof, except where it is Rocky, he by the way asserts to be very even. Of Submarine Plants he observes, there are none at great depths for want of Air. This depth usually answers the heighth of the adjoyning Hills and Land. He treats of the use and necessity of Mountains. Coming in the next place to the Creation of Animals, he proposes some Questions, as, Whether God made at first the Seeds only of all Animals, and scatter'd them over the Earth, or made the first sett of Animals in persection, giving each Species a power to generate? then, Whether he made a great many of a sort, or only two, a Male and a Female? And from these another Question arises, Whether the Ovaries of the first Animals,actually included in them the whole number, to be produced by that Species to the end of the World? Which he enclines to, and seems to make the Female the chief Agent in Generation; each Egg containing an Animalcule, the Arguments for and against this Hypothesis make up the Remainder of this Discourse: Though he confesses himself not fully satisfied, as to all Doubts that may be ~, but ends with his Reasons for dissenting from ~, that all Animals proceed from an Animalcule in the Male sperme. The (616) The Author takes the same method in the Second Discourse of the General Deluge, bringing first the Testimonies of the ancient Heathen Writers concerning it, endeavouring to shew, that by Deucalions they understood Noah's Flood, which they also make universal, though he owns there was in Thessaly such a particular Flood as they call Deucalion's, about 700 years after Noah's, and that of Ogyges in Attica, about 230 years before Deucalions. Proceeding to treat of the Causes of this general Flood, rejecting that of the Airs being turned into Water, alledged by Kircher in Arca Noae, he pitches upon those two mentioned in Genesis, the breaking up the Fountains of the great deep, and opening the Windows of Heaven, by the last of which he supposes a great quantity of Water may be afforded, taking the Waters above the Firmament to be Waters lodged above the inferiour Regions of the Air. By the Fountains of the Deep, he understands the subterraneous Waters. As to the Expence of the Sea-water by Vapour,he concludes the Receipts of the Mediterranean to fall short of its expence. He questions whether there be any under-Currents in the Sea, and proceeding to his present Subject of the breaking up the Fountains, he by the way dissents from Dr. Plot, in his Nat. Hist. of Staffordshire, That the Valleys are as much below the Surface of the Sea as the Mountains are above it, since the Rivers run down from those Valleys into the Sea; and seems dissatisfied with the Opinion of an inferiour circulation of Water, as not sufficlently demonstrated how it can be performed. Having observed that the Hills and Dry Land is so equally dispersed over the World, as to counterbalance each other, so that the Centers of Motion, Gravity, and Magnitude concur in one, he discourses occasionally of the original of Springs, all which he holds to be partly from Vapors condensed into Dews, and partly from Rain and Snow; giving his Thoughts upon Mr. Halley's late Hypothesis; coming at last to what he thinks the most probable Causes of the Flood, viz. The Changing the Center of the Earth at that time, and setting it nearer the middle of our Continent, whereupon the Atlantick and Pacifick Oceans pressing upon the subterraneous Aby~, by that means forced the Water upwards and compel'd it to run out at the wide mouths made at the breaking up of the Fountains of the Deep. These Waters thus poured out upon the Earth, the declivity being changed by the Removal of the Center, could not flow to the Sea again, but stagnate upon the Earth; and after the Earth returning to its old Center, these Waters return'd also to their former Receptacles. He adds another Hypothesis, That the Divine Power might at that time so depress the Surface of the Ocean, as to force the Waters of the Aby~ through the fore-mentioned Channels, ~c. An Hypothesis like the former of these you will at the end of a Treatise, de Potentia Restitutiva, or of Springs publish'd by Dr. Hooke, anno 1678. pag. 50. Where, by the removal of the Center toward the Antipodes, he explains the appearance of several Islands in our Seas, by the ~ of the Water; which formerly were not observed, &c. In the next place our Author speaking of the Effects of the Deluge, has a particular Chapter of formed Stones, Sea-shells, and the like Bodies found at distances from the shore, and brings the Arguments at large on both sides, for and against their being originally Shells, Bones, ~c. to which being long, we refer: In which he owns himself not to be yet satisfied on either side: He adds the draughts of some of the most different kinds of these Bodies, and leaving the matter undetermin'd, (617) determin'd, proceeds to give some account of the Changes that have happened to the Earth since the general Deluge, as, the breaking off of some Islands formerly joyned to the Continent, some Places gained from the Sea, others cover'd by it. Other Changes happening to the Earth, by the sinking of Mountains, Changes by Earthquakes, where he touches upon that lately happening in Jamaica, and that in England in Sept. last, of which he observes the considerable Circumstances out of a Letter from Dr. Robinson, and as to Earthquakes in England, that they have been very short, and finisht at one Explosion, an Argument that the Cavities wherein the enflamed matter is contained are here very narrow. Other Changes have been caused in the Earth by extraordinary Floods, from long and continual Rains, others by bossterous Winds, and the like, which with some Remarks, that the Earth does not proceed so fast towards the levelling and general Inundation, as the force of these Causes seem to require: Concludes this second Discourse. The Third Discourse being more Theological, and less related to the design of these Tracts, I shall be the more brief in the account thereof, and waving the beginning thereof, shall only observe, that our Author, in order to prove his Assertion of a general Dissolution by Fire, besides Scripture-proofs, and the Opinions of the Primitive Fathers, brings several from the ancient Philosophers, whose Opinions were, that the Dissolution of the World should be by Water and Fire, alternately at certain Periods; the Gods themselves not being free from these Catastrophes. Coming in the next place to the Question, Whether there be any thing in Nature that may probably cause or argue a future Dissolution? He grants to the Peripateticks, that supposing the ordinary Concourse of God with Second Causes, the World might endure for ever, there being no such Decay in Nature as might argue the contrary. Proceeding to Particulars, he examines the four probable Causes of such a Dissolution; first, as to the possibility of the Water, in process of time, overflowing the Earth; from the Steeple of Craich, in the Peak of Derbyshire, (formerly not to be seen at a certain distance,but now visible,by the sinking of an interposedHill,which the Rains have gradually lessened and wash'd down; with some other Observations of the like Nature) he argues, that the Waters may at last level the whole Earth, and bring a total Subversion thereof; to which purpose is inserted a large Quotation out of Josephus Blancanus. For a second cause he alledges the Extinction of the Sun, instancing in some Observations of unusual defects and paleness of the Sun for a considerable time, and thinks it not impossible but the Machlae Solares may so far prevail, as wholly to rob us of his necessary Influence. For a third Cause he brings the Eruption of the Central Fire, the possibility whereof he argues, particularly from new Stars appearing and disappearing, which Phenomenon he thinks may be so solved. A fourth Cause may be the dryness and inflammability of the Earth in the Torrid Zone, where by the way he explains what Fire is, and in the end rejects this Cause as insufficient. Coming to that Question, How this Dissolution will be effected; he answers, By Fire, and concludes it will be after a miraculous way, suddenly, &c. He determines not the Time, but allows it possibly at a great distance, and thinks it likely, that it will be a Renovation, and not an utter Annihilation, which he proves from several old Writers. And so much for the Philosophical part of this Treatise. Leo(618) Leonardi Plukenetii P H Y T O G R A P H I A seu Plantae quamplurimae novae & Literis huc usque incognitae ex ~ & remotissimis Provinciis ipsisq; Indiis allatae Nomine & Iconibus. T A B U L I S AE N E I S 130 Fig. fere 800 magna cum Industria & insigni sane in successores beneficio Illustratae. Fol. Londini, 1692. P A R S III. T H E Curious in Botany must needs own themselves highly obliged,as well to the Industry as Sincerity of the most Ingenious Author, since what he formerly promis'd touching this Subject he now amply performs in this Third Part, 'enriching the World with a new Set of Phytographick Tables, which he humbly dedicates to His present Majesty, wherein he exhibits to publick view the Figures and Descriptive Titles of near 800 Plants, all different from what he published the foregoing year,and the greatest part of them hitherto either not describ'd, or not figur'd. In this Work the judicious Reader may observe, that as there are really New and Non-describ'd Spe~cies, that will afford Entertainment and Diversion to the profounder Enquirers, and such as are in the upper Form of Botany; so there are others would be thought as such, to the unnatural encrease of the Faculty, whereby the Superficiary Proficients would for ever be deterr'd from attempting to grasp at such an Immensity, did not the studied Care of our elaborate Author, in his stated References and Synonymes, contract their Number, and reduce the Account of Botany to its just natural Limits. A single Instance hereof (among many others) you have in the Uvifera litorea, &c. from America, or the Sea-side Grape, by those of Barbados, in Tab. 236. which although by many esteem'd as a new Plant, is really no other than the Raisinier of Mons. Rochfort, or Ouliem of the Charibbeans Histoire des Antilles. The same with Obe of the Dutch Prodromus,and the Sideroxylum folio subrotundo ejus'd. The Arbor Insulae Tabago materiae ligno Brasiliano simili, de Laet. The Papyracea arbor, Guajabara Barbaris. Hispanis Uvero. Jo. Bauh. Copey in Insula Hispaniola Casp. Bauh. Pinac. and populus rotundifolia Americana, Parkinson; as any may perceive by the Synonymous Titles, subjoyn'd to the forementioned Table. So that here are no less than eight seemingly several and distinct Plants, united into one and the same thing; and were this Method duly observ'd in the whole course of Phytology, the History of Vegetables would not appear so bulky and unbounded, but any ingenious person might in some reasonable time take a full view of all its Heights and Depths, and utmost Extent, without the danger of Dizziness or Affrightment. In (619) In these most excellent Tables you will find the Hallucinations and Mistakes of several Authors rectified, their Obscurities cleared up, and many other useful Illustrations, which I shall forbear to enumerate in this place; only of some of their particular Rarities we shall give the Reader a Specimen. Besides the Mexican Abies, and that elegant Southernwood from Portugal, there is a whole Set of curious Acaci a's, most of them Thorny, yet some without Thorns, from Java,Maderaspatan, Ceylon, Africa and the West-Indies The Acacia Africana spinis candicantibus horrida, &c. in Tab. 123. is the true AEgyptian Acacia that the incomparable Botanist Fabius Columna raised of Seed at Naples, a Figure whereof he has given us with his learned Notes upon Reccus, pag. 866. The Acacia Abruae foliis, &c. of the same Table, our Author thinks may be the same with the Frutex Palaestinus of Bellonius, which was supposed by him to be the Tree producing Myrrhe. Obs. lib. 2. cap. 8. An Acer foliis trifidis & quinquisidis Virginianum, which by the Author is supposed to be the Arbor Saccharifera Canadensium Indorum apud Cl. Rajum. Hist. Pl. 1701. A pretty Myrtifoliate Alnus in the Appendix from Bermudos, in use among the Tanners. Several sorts of Maiden-Hair from Narbon, Africae, Brasil, Barbados, Bermudos, and some other Islands of the Charibbees. Four stately kinds of Aloes from the Cape. Various sorts of Amaranthoides from Maderaspatan, one with sharp Prickles along the Stalk, and a Thorny sort of Alkanet from the same place. There are no less than six sorts of Anona, with a critical distinction of them each from other. The BenjamiaTree, with its Branch and Flowers, from the Continent of Virginia. The Cubeb-Tree, or supposed to be so from Fort St. George, as also from Bengal. A Balsam-Tree, from Barbados, call'd by the Planters Spanish Ash. As also a Spanish-Oak, from the same Island. A siliquiferous Tree, with the Leaves of Beech. The Tree called Mancinello, being remarkable for its venomous Qualities, together with its Fruit: From this Tree a Juice is drawn so venemous, that you cannot touch it, but the Skin rises with great Pain, and becomes as black as though a hot Iron were applied to it. The Arbor Stacteflua putata, or a Tree that drops liquid Myrrhe, from America. The Poyson-Wyth of Barbados, which is a kind of Bryony. Three distinct kinds of the Tree Pimiento's, from the Islands of Jamaica and the Barbados. The Flowring Beech of Virginia, and the Silver Chestnut, which differs from the Chinquapin of the same place, and may be the Leucoma of Authors. A new Family of the Cenchramidea's, from Barbados; the Fruit of one of these may well be suspected that of the Bdellium in Lobel's Icons, call'd BalsamApple by our Planters in Barbados. A Cedar of the same Island with the Leaves of an Ash. Sundry sorts of Cherries from America, Arabia, and the Cape. A wonderful Cireus, that creeps upon the Ground like a Serpent, from America. An elegant sort of Christophoriana, with the Leaves of Malabathrum, F called (620) called Nettle-Tree by those of Barbados. Chrysanthema, various kinds, both American, East-Indian, African, and Persian. A wild Cinamon of Barbados, with unvein'd Leaves. Two wonderful Cistus's, from Virginia, and one from Ceylon. Several strange Colutea's, from the East-Indies, Java, Maderaspatan, AEgypt, and Veracruce in America. As many Convolvuli, from America, Jamaica, Virginia, the Cape of Good-Hope, Ceylon, and Maderaspatan. The Cordis Indi folio & facie frutescens Portoricensis Paradis. Batav. Prod. whereunto belongs the Quauhmecatl or Zarzaparilla, 2, & 3. Nov. Hispan. Terent. apud Rece. p. 289. as our Author has reason to suspect. That other Cordis Indi folio & sacie,&c. from Curassao; to which he refers the Aquitztli of New Spain, apud Rece. p.354. an elegant Tree called Coralwood. Strange Cucumbers from Malabar, Maderaspatan, and from America. Several CalibashTrees from the East-Indies and America. A Berry bearing Doddar, from the Island of Barbados, perhaps the same with Acatsjavalli Hort. Malabar, par.7. And Pearl-Tree of Surinam, which is a kind of Euonymus. The true Ficus Indice arcuata, and the Bearded Fig-Tree, from Barbados, both of the Arbor de Raiz kind, propagating themselves by stringy Fibres emitted from their Branches, which touching the ground, take Root, and produce new Trees. Several sorts of Ferns, some Natives of England, but never till now figur'd; three from Africa, two from Virginia, and one from the Academick Garden of Padua, as also in the Appendix; four more from the Island of Bermudos. The Manna Tree or Ash of Aleppo, several most noble kinds of Genista's from the Cape, and Maderaspatan; some with Spines, others without. Six of the Gossipium kind, both from the East and the West-Indies. A multitude of exotick Grasses from most parts of the habitable World. A strange Ilex from Virginia, with tuberose Roots: And others of the same Family from Maderaspatan. Several Laserpitiums, with a critical distinction of each kind. Two sorts of Silver Trees, growing upon Mount Atlas; the first is said to be Pomiferous, the other is an Epiphyllanthos, both seem the Miracles of Nature. The Silverwood or White-wood, called by our Author Leucoxylum, is by him supposed the same with the white Brasil, or Lignum Brasilianum, ut charta candidum Jonst. Dendrol. 454. Linscholen tells us, 'tis whiter than either Chalk or Snow, Ind. Or. P. 3. cap. 6. It is a Quinquefoliate and Siliquiferous Tree, with winged Seed. The Lignum Rhodium Tree, called by the Planters of Barbados Lightwood, and Lucinium by our Author. The various sorts of Lycia, from Portorico, Candy, and Maderaspatan. The Lysimacha non papposa, several kinds thereof from both the Indies. The Mammee-Tree of the West-Indies, which our Author suspects to be the Arbor, Vinifera, Couton, Juglaudis, Similis of John Bauhine, and the Momen of Mr. Ogilbey, which, as he relates, grows to the bigness of an Apple-Tree, the Fruit which it bears resembles a green Cucumber, of a pleasant Juice, the Skin always green and prickly, the Seed about the bigness of a French Bean, generally black, and streaked with golden-colour'd Veins. Two (621) Two sorts of the Mangle-Tree, of the Arbor de Raiz kind, though no Flgg; the first is the Paretuveir of Monsieur Rochfort, the same with the Oysterbearing Tree, that grows in Sierra Liona of ~ Navigat Tom. 1. the true Arbor de Raiz of Linschoten, P. 4. Ind. Or. and one of the Kandels of Hort. Malab. The Manihot Indorum, or Mandioca, whereof the Indians make their Bread Cassadar. The Angelina of Piso, and Blackwood of those of Barbados. A strange sort of a Milky Oleander, with a yellow Flower, the Esnotli, Nov. Hispan. Tereut. apud Reccum. p. 443. A Nymphaea from Maderaspatan, with a Leaf like the larger Cresse, but much stiffer, which our Author conceives to be a sort of the true Colocasia or AEgyptian Bean of Dioscorides and Theophrastus, whose Root was called Colocasia. Several strange Nuts from America and Ceylon, and one kind intercommon to the Islands both of Barbados and Ceylon: As also another in the Appendix; that came from Veracruce. Two sorts of most fragrant Basil's from Maderaspatan. Various Passiflorae, from Curassau, Brasil, and other Parts of America Pentaphylloides from Sweden, Scotland, and Ireland: A pretty Myrtifoliate Periclimenum, from Maderaspatan; and another from the same place. Auother strange kind from Zeylon; a fourth from America, and a fifth Variegate in its Leaves from the Royal Garden at Paris. Great variety of Phaseoli from Africa and both the Indies; a long Pepper from Brasil; and several Purslanes both with and without Thorns, from the Summer Islands of America. Plumbs in abundance from Barbados, Virginia, Malabar, and Maderaspatan. Two sorts of Sebesten's, the true Elemnifera, which is a Plumm-Tree, and that Nucipruniferous, which in Barbados they call the Mastick-Tree. The Sope-Berry, which is properly a Plumm, or between Nut and Plumm, Indian Damozen, and the Bully Bay; the Acaja of the Brasilians, and Icaco Plumm-Tree, that has this peculiar, that thereon Birds as big as Jays, with black & gold-colour'd Feathers build their pendulous Nefts. The Rhamnus's from Maderaspatan, and the Trifoliate Sumachs from the Coast of Africa, are altogether new. Two sorts of Folliculiferous Willows from Barbados, and the Sassafras-Tree, with its Fruit, whose Flowers are like the male Cornel, of which for many Reasons it may well be esteemed a Kind. Its leaves break with araneous filaments, like those of scabious, which is proper also to the Cornels. It flowers early in the Spring, before its Leaves begin to put forth, so does the Cornel; nor are their Fruit and Qualitles unlike. Our Author takes this to be the same with the Lignum Auisi ex Orbe Atlantico advectum Goropii Hispan. lib. 7. An Ironwood from the Cape, and another from Barbados, which as it is the same mentioned in Ligon. It may also be the Sideroxylum Charibbaearum mucronatis-foliis Ogilb. Americ. 371. There are no less than seven strange Sisynrichia from Africa and Ceylon, a most elegant Syringa with winged Leaves like Ash, Scandent, and with Claspers, from Maderaspatan. A golden-flower'd Telephium, from the Cape. The Techo(622) ~-Tree from Mexico. Three strange Therebinths, the PalamalattAE dicta, that with the Leaf of a Rose-Tree, and a trifoliate kind; the ~Palamalatta vulgo. Various Thymelaea's hitherto unknown, from several parts of the Would,and Tithymals in abundance, from Ceylon, Mauritania, AEthiopia, Monomotapae, and the Island of Curassau. There is an Arborescent sort wich a very large Leaf, no less venomous than the Mancinello, this is the Tetlatia of Eusebius Nierembergius, and by those of Barbados called the Poyson-Tree. Another kind there is, called by some the Mancinello Sylvestris. There is a pretty sort of Trifolium Supinum, from Maderaspatan, with somewhat long Pods. This our Author thinks to be a Kin to Lotus, and may perhaps be a kind of that Melilotus Syriaca s. Chalepensis major coronata siliquis biuncialibus Morison. Icon. Sect. 2. Tab. 16. Num. 13. As for Viola's and Virga aureas, they are so numerous, and yet so new, that I must refer you to the Tables themselves; the Uvifera's are very curious indeed, and several staining Woods from Barbados are very deserving a more particular Remark; as also the prickly Xanthium from the Kingdom of Portugal. But I am obliged to hasten, and therefore I draw up all into this Conclusion; That sure it must needs be a great Pleasure to such curious Persons that have addicted themselves to the Botauick Studies, to see how far the Art it self has been cultivated and improv'd. By the single effort of an unassisted Industry, and how capable it is of farther Improvements, would the Age but propose a suitable Encouragement. The Work is follow'd by an Explication of the abbreviated Names of Gardens, Books, and Authors, made use of in the Tables, as also a general Index to all the Three Parts of Phytographia. Of the First and Second Part of the Authors Phytographia, published in the year 1691, there was an Account given in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 193. L O N D O N: Printed for, and Sold by Samuel Smith, Printer to the Royal Society, at the Prince's Arms in St. Paul's Churchyard, 1 6 9 3. 