Divers Instances Of Peculiarities of Nature, both in Men and Brutes; communicated by the same. 1. One Mr. Morley of Bury St. Edmonds, in an Asthmatick distemper, was advised by some to take down a spoonful of good English Honey; which being done, the Patient fell into an Universal swelling, as if he had swallow'd the worst of Poysons. Mr. Goodrich being hastily called in to save life, prescribed him a common Sudorifick, which in competent time relieved him. They then made enquiry at the Apothecaries, Whether nothing were amiss in the Honey? and they protested, it was altogether right. But to be assured of it by Experiment, they afterwards got the like quantity at another place, which was given with the very same frightful event, and the party was cured by the same Chirurgeon (who is my Author) with the same kind of sweat*. 2. Mr. Twisse, a Minister of Metigbam in Sussolk, about forty years of age, having been accustomed for some time to drink warm or rather hot Beer, LII and * The like Example hath been more than once related to the Publisher by a very credible person, of a Noble Lady in Ireland, who having received a small hurt on her Leg, and the Chirurgeon mingling in the Application, he made to it, a little Honey (from which she had an utter Aversion, which was then unknown to the Chirurgeon, as was to the Patient the mixture;) the place affected did soon after rankle, and grow so bad, that the Lady was constrained to send for him that had applied it, who being examined about the Ingredients, and declaring one of them to be Honey, the Lady soon acquainted him with her Antipatby to that substance; whereupon that Application was immediately removed, and another more proper for the Patient put in the place, with good success. (550) and coming from his House about Midsummer to a House near Rumburch-Church, where he was offered a Cup of cold Beer, out of modesty, or a humour to prevent the being wonder'd at, took it off thus cold, after he had taken a Pipe of Tobaccco. Which done, he presently took Horse, and rode with other Company towards Framlingham. Coming at Haleswith, he found himself sick, his stomach much out of order. He lighted once or twice by the way and vomited, but coming at his Journeys end, his vomiting grew worse, and he was constrained to betake himself to his bed. Next day he grew yet worse, could find no help by Physick, but died the very next morning. It may be worth noting (adds the Author) that one, who is wont to drink cold Beer, is not, for ought we know, endanger'd by a draught of hot Beer: But I cannot tell, whether it may be thence inferr'd, that hot things are more agreable to the natural Tone of the Stomach, than cold. That it was not barely the coldness of Particles, sensible to the Touch, appears, because the same Party could drink cold Wine, as I was informed from my own Father. 3. Madam Mary Brook of Yoxford hath such an Aversion to Wasps, that whilst their season of swarming about in Houses lasteth, she is forc'd to confine her self to a little close Chamber, and dares not then come out to Table, lest their coming there should put her into such Distempers, as Cheese doth those, who have an utter Antipathy against it. 4. Mrs. Raymund of Stow-market, when even she hears Thunder, even afar off, begins to have a bodily distemper seize on her. She grows faint, sick in her stomach, and ready to vomit. At the very coming over of it, she falls into a right-down Cholera, and continues under a Vomiting and Loosness as long as the Tempest holds, and that in a more violent way than is commonly procured by such Medicaments as are usually exhibited for those very purposes. And thus it hath been with this Gentle woman from a Girl. 5. I know a Woman in Stow-market, who, during her Greensickness, was invited by her Pica or longing to suck the Wind out of Bellows, which, as often as she could, she took into her Body with open mouth, forcing it in by blowing with her own hands, the (551) the Bellows inverted. I know another that was for crackling Cinders under her feet. From which kind of Instances I am inclin'd to doubt, whether that Distemper begins at the Depravation of the Acid liquor in the Stomach, and not rather at the Uterus, which next insects the Brain, such kind of things gratifying the Fancy some ways misled, more than the Appetite natural any ways depraved. 6. Somewhat like to this is to be found in Brutes. In ma' last a Greyhound Bitch at Brightwel-Hall, about five or six days before she cast her Whelps, had such a wild kind of Hunger, (though she was fed sufficiently every day with usual food) that finding another Bitches Whelps, she devoured them all (4 or 5, as I remember) and fell next upon the Bitch her self, who made a shift to get from her as well as she could, being helped. From this, and from Sows devouring whole Litters of Pigs, I am prone to think otherwise of the Longings of Teeming-Women, than is the common opinion. 