T-R A N S A C T I O N S. XII. On the Conversion of Animal Muscle into a Substance ynuclJ resembling Spermaceti. By George Smith (;ibbes, B. A. of Magdalen Callege, Oxford. Conzervunicated b3J George Shaw, M.D. F.R.S. Read March , 1794. iT iS a matter of great curiosity to observe, after any fact llas been well ascertained, how many things might llave led to a much earlier investigatton particularly so, ha(l the--writings of many great men been equally examined, with those observations which, though apparently very trifling) llave often excited general attention. The conversion of animal muscle into a fatty matter gives us a very striking example. The celebrated Sir THOMAS BROWN, in his rery learned ancl curious treatise intituled Hy(lriotGlphia, assures us, that he has found a soap-like substance in an hydropical body. tiis words are as follow, viz. s; In an hydropical body, ten years buried in c; a church-yard, we met with a fat concretion, where the nitre MDCCSCIV. ZPHI LO S OPHIGA L 70 Mr. GIBBES On the Conversion of Animal Musclec; of the earth, and tlle salt arld lixivious liquor of tlle body, c; had coagulated large lulups of fat into the consistence of sc the hardest Castile soap; nZhereof part remaineth svith us.'' Lord BACON in his wor}o intituled Sylva Sylvclr^n, also melations this ctlriotls circunlstance: sc You lnay turn (alluost) sc all flesla into a fatty substance; if you take flesh and cut it c into pieces, and put the pieces into a glass covered with " parcllmentand so let tlae gIass stand six or seven hoursin '; boiling water. It rnay be an e-xperiment of profit for mak ;' ing grease or fat for lnany uses ; but then it must be of sucla " flesh as is not edible, as horses, dogs, bears, foxesS badgers? c; &c.'' Animal musele, hail1g lost its living principle, has been generally supposed to undergo, when exposed either to tlle action of air or water, that kind of decomposition olaly whicl is known by thq name of the putrefactive fermentation Since the discovery of the bodies in the Cizetiere des Innocens at Paris, this subject laas been more attended to, and a substance much resembling spermacet-i, is now known to be formed by combinations whicll take the allimal flesh and w7ater. If you put flesh under water, and let it stay some time, it will get very offiensive, and the putrefactiere fermentation will in some measure most assuredly take place. This seems to have been the reason why the substarlce remanilag in the water had not been more accurately examined, it being imagined tllat as this decomposition had commerlced, the whole would ke changed in the same manner. It svould appear strange, if the same substance, exposed to the action of two such different bodies as air and water, should undergo precisely the same thange. That they do not9 has been lately proved by many into a Sabstance much resembliz^g Sperenaceti.17texperinzents, and that the putrefactive fErmentation is not at all necessary in the formation of this fatty matter, I thitlk some of the following experilnellts wYill sllew. After havirlg seen some of the matter follnd in flle Glnetiere des Innocens at Paris, I concluded that in sorne situations tlle same kiIld of substance might be easily foulad X accordirlgly I examined some of the macerating tubsbelonging to anatomical scllools in toutnn and l foulad that in rnost of thete the flesh was nearly changed into this killd of fat. 3y tlle indulgence of Dr. PEGGE, the anatomical professo-r in Oxfords I was permitted to examine the receptacle in sYhich tlle bodies are deposited, after he has finished lecturing on them. This place is a hole dug in tlle ground to tlle depth of about 13 or 14 feetf and, to remove all oSe;asive stmell, a little stream7is turnedthrough it. I foulldX orl first looking into it, that the flesh was quite white, and on drawing up the first piece, I fourld ist cllanged in the manner before described. From this place I have procured at least 1 2 pound weighe of a substance equal in every respect to spertnaceti. LIaving seen many specimens of different aninlals, which had been changed unde1 somewhat different circumstances, that ist -where some had been buriexl in dampish groutld, some in wet grourld, and so1ne evell in water itself, t began to suspect that I might bring about the same change in a shorter titne, at least I might determine the time necessary for it: with this viewa piece of the leanest part of a rump of beef was confined irl a box full of holes, which being tied to a tree near a river7 was suffiered to float in it. On taking this up from time to time, I ?erceived that it gradually got whiter and whiterf and at the Z e 172 Mr. GIBBES on the Conversion oJ7Wnumal AIuscleend of a month it was perfectly to appearance cllanged t;o amass of fatty matter. From some circurnstatlces, T am iIzduced to believe that it is sooner converted in running water than herl it is perfectly at restX for svhen this beef srasexposed to the water in the river a piece of lnutton was placed in a reservoir of vvYater, and I perceived, that though tlle mutton was exposed for a longer time thaa the beef, yet it was not so much ezhangetl. Finding that this substance was so formed, and that I could procure large quantities -of it, I triedsome experilments KIL-o lnu rify it; for this purpose I took several pieces of it and nlelted them, and I found, thotlgh tIaey were brouglzlt illtO a closer unionn yet the foetid smell svs1s as bad as before. After trying some unsuccessful rexperi:roentsf it occur,red t;o me tllat if I CQU add a substance to it which wvould unite with tlle oSe1zsive )arts and not with tlle fat, I rrsigllt then get it pure X accordingly I poured some nitrous acid UpOll it, which immediately had the desired effectg a waxy srrlell-was perceived, arld on sepalatizg and rtlelting itn I got it nearly pure. The nitrous acid turns it elIow, but by sublnittixlg it to the action of the oxygrer<atect nuriatic acid, I have got it quite wllite and pure. In tE<e beginning of last June I buried a cown in a place w7here, frotn the rising of a river to supply a mill twice a day, it was su}mitted to the action of running ^rater. On taking this cow up in t)ecember? I found that where the water was constantly runlzilag over it, tlaere it was changed into a fatty substance, but where -the water which had acted on the meat could rlot pass oS, there a very disagreeable smell was sensible, and the flesh w-s not: so mucnh changed. A piece cyf-this cosv, that was pefectly znlo a Substance much resemblzng Spermacetielean, vvas sttlek through with a stick, and fastened to the bot tom of the riverX t-his piece utas perfectly changed into a fat matter, and had lost its offiensive smell. I llanre brought about this change in a much shorter tilne, in the following manner. I took three lean pieces of mutton alld poured on them the three milleral acids, and I perceived that at tile etld of three days eacll was navlch altered; that ill tlae nitrous acid was. rnllch softened, and on separating the acid from ita I found it to be exactly the sarne xvith that wllich I had before got from the watero that in tlle muriatic acid was not ill tilat time so tnuch altered; the vitriolic acicl had turned the other black. From these experimentsa it appears to me that it is rloti at all necessary that the putrefactive fermelltation should take place; on the contrary, that it takes away a great deal of the flesh which nzigilt serve for the formatioll of a greater quan-tity of tlais vaxy stlbstance. Tlle foregoing experimetlts may not appear new to every oneg but as they are perfectly so to lne, I take the liberty of oEfering them. 