(191) X. Of the Currents at the Streights Mouth. By Capt. Communicated by Dr. Hudson. CApe Spartel, and Cape Trafalgar, from the western Ocean, are known to make the Streights Mouth, from whence a Current, in the middle of the Channel (which is about five Leagues broad) betwixt the Barbary and Spanish Land, runs, at least, two Miles each Hour, as far as Ceuta Point; and there the two Coasts opening about eighteen Leagues distant from each other, the Current does not run above one Mile and Hour, and so continues as far as Cape de Gat, which is seventy Leagues up the Mediterranean. Our Mariners observe a Current to set to the western Sea, or the great Ocean from Ceuta, along the Barbary Shore; and, from Gibraltar, along the Spanish Shore; but that on the Barbary Shore is generally their common Rout, not only as being the freest from Rocks and less dangerous, but by reason that the Tide is much stronger, than it is on the other Side, which the sooner helps the Ships out of the Streights, which are the narrowest betwixt the Points of Gibraltar and Ceuta; at which last Place, a Neck of Land extends itself a considerable Way into the Sea; and it's my Opinion, and that of others, that whereas the Current runs, as abovesaid, two Miles an Hour against this Neck of Land, the Water there meets with so violent an Opposition in its Course, as occasions it to rebound with so much Force, that Part of it returns back along the same Coast, and so out of the Streights Mouth; which, with the small Tide that sets out on the Spanish Shore, it's believ'd, may exhaust a considerable Part of that Current, which continually sets V O L. XXXIII. E e in, (192) in, to the Eastward, at the Rate I have already mention'd. What I look upon to be very remarkable, is that in the Year 1712, Monsieur du L'aigle, that fortunate and generous Commander of the Privateer call'd the Phaenix of Marseille, giving Chase, near Ceuta Point, to a Dutch Ship bound for Holland, he came up with her in the middle of the Gut, or Streights, betwixt Tariffa and Tangier, and there gave her one Broad-side, which directly sunk her, all her Men being sav'd by the Means of Mons. du L'aigle; and a few Days after, the sunk Ship, with her Cargo of Brandy and Oil, arose on the Shore near Tangier, which is, at least, four Leagues to the Westward of the Place were she sunk, and directly against the Strength of the Current; which has persuaded many Men, that there is a Recurrency in the deep Water in the middle of the Gut, that sets outwards to the grand Ocean, which, I think, this Accident very much demonstrates; and possibly, a great Part of the Water, which runs into the Streights, does return that Way, and along the two Coasts which I have already mention'd; otherwise, this Ship of Course, must have been drove towards Ceuta, and so upwards. I was at Gibraltar when this happen'd, where I saw above 100 of the Butts of that Cargo of Brandy, which were sent thither from Tangier; I likewise spoke with the Captain of the Dutch Ship, who told the Governor, myself, and many others, where his Vessel sunk; and her rising afterwards at Tangier, appear'd very unaccountable to us, as it does to me to this Day; for there's no Doubt but the Ship sunk where the Dutchman told us, since the Spaniards from the Land, who saw it, confirm'd it to us. The Water in the Gut must be very deep, several of the Commanders of our Ships of War having attempted to sound it with the longest Lines they could contrive, but could never find any Bottom. 1 XI. Am