Some Observations concerning Jupiter. Of the shadow of one of his Satellites seen, by a Telescope passing over the Body of Jupiter. I have received an Account from very good hands, That on the 26th of September last, at half hour after seven of the Clock, was seen, both in Holland and in France (by curious Observers, with very good Telescopes) the shadow of one of the Satellites of Jupiter, passing over his Body. One of those small Stars moving about his Body (which are therefore called his Satellites) coming between the Sun and it, made a small Eclipse, appearing in the Face of Jupiter as a little round black Spot. The Particulars of those Observations, when they shall come to our Hands, we may (if need be) make them publik: Which Observations, as they are in themselves very remarkable, and argue the Excellency of the Glasses by which they were discovered; So are we, in part, beholding to Monsieur Cassini for them, who giving notice before-hand of such Appearances to be expected,gave occasion to those Curious Observers to look for them. Of a permanent Spot in Jupiter: by which is manifested the conversion of Jupiter about his own Axis. Besides that Transient Shadow last mentioned, there hath been observed, by Mr. Hook first (as is mentioned in Numb. I. of these Transact.) and since by M. Cassini, a permanent Spot in the Disque of Jupiter; by the help whereof,they have been able to observe, not onely that Jupiter turns about upon his own Axis, but also the Time of such conversion; which he estimates (144) estimates to be, 9 hours and 56 minutes. For as Kepler did before conjecture, from the motion of the Primitive Planets about the Sun as their Center, that the Sun moved about its own Axis, but could not prove it, till by Galileo and shiner the Spots in the Sun were discovered; so it hath been thought reasonable, from the Secundary Planets moving about Jupiter, that Jupiter is also moved about his Axis; yet, till now, it hath not been evinced by Observation, That it doth so move; much less, in what Period of Time. And the like reason there is to judge so of Saturn, because of the Secundary Planet discovered by Monsieur Hugens de Zulichem to move about it; (though such motion be not yet evinced from Observation:) as well as that of the Earth, from its Attendant the Moon. Whether the same may be also concluded of the other Planets, Mars, Venus, and Mercury, (about whom have not yet been observed any Secondary Planets to move,) is not so evident. Yet there may be somewhat of like probability in those. Not onely, because it is possible they may have Secundary Planets about them, though not yet discovered; (For, we know, it was long after those of Jupiter, before that about Saturn was discovered; and who knows, what after times may discover about the rest?) But because the Primary Planets being all in like manner inlightned by the Sun, and (in all likely hood) moved by it; it is likely that they be moved by the same Laws aud Methods; and therefore, turn'd about their own Axis, as it is manifest that some of them are. But, as for the Secundary Planets, as well those about Jupiter, as that about Saturn; it is most likely that they have no such Rotation upon their Axis. Not so much, because; by reason of their smalness, no such thing hath been yet observed, or, indeed, could be, though it were true;) But because they being Analogical to our Moon, it is most likely that they are moved in like manner. Now, though it be true, (145) true, that there is some kind ofLibration of the Moon's body, so that we have not precisely just the same part of it looking towards us; (as is evident by Hevelius Observations, and others;) yet is there no Revolution upon its Axis; the same part of it, with very little alteration, always respecting us, as is to be seen in Hevelius his Treatise de Motu Lunae Libratorio; and, indeed, by all those who have written particularly of the spots in the Moon; and is universally known to all that have with any curiosity viewed it with Telescopes. 