Fig: 6. I K Fig: 7. H A ~ F G D a g D M a C b e ~ a E d B ~ B H ~ ~ H F N F I C K I O R K T V C ~ h y z i ~: 6. I H K H F G ~ ~ f ~ d c b e ~ ~ ~ Q R C r ~ ~ S ~ ~ ~ V C ~ E h i Fig: 8. A ~ A A b c a D B d G F ~ C C E 2 3 H l Venas has et Humani Corpo Arterias Geminis ~ ad citas Patavio a se pridem ded tas: ~ ~ Societat dit Iobannes Evelynus ejusden cius MDCLXVII.M:v~. Gucht Sculp Fig: 2. 18 18 18 17 17 14 14 15 15 1 13 16 13 ~ 11 12 8 ~ 9 7 10 8 9 6 6 ~ 4 ~ D ~ 1 2 3 ~ A C D ~ B 31 27 Fig: 4 ~ Fig: 1~ Philosoph: Transact: No~ 280~ 10 ~ ~ 13 ~ Fig: 3 ~ ~ A a a E 1 18 19 3 E 20 a * ~ B ~ 20 ~ 22 ~ E 23 28 24 30 30 31 29 36 C 19 31 16 ~ ~ 34 36 E 17 38 ~ C C A B B A C D Fig: 5. C C ~ A A A B B C D 38 37 38 39 40 a F 41 F ~ 42 a H G a a D 43 M. v~ ~ ~ (1177) II. An Account of divers Schemes of Arteries and Veins, Dissected from Adult Human Bodies, and given to the Repository of the Royal Society by John Evelyn, Esq; E. R. S. To which are subjoyn'd a Description of the Extremities of those Vessels, and the manner the Blood is seen, by the Microscope, to pass from the Arteries to the Veins in Quadrupeds when living: With some Chirurgical Observations, and Figures after the Life, by William Cowper, F. R. S. THe Annext Figures of the Arteries and Veins (i. e. Fig. the 1st, 6th, and 8th) were drawn after the Vessels themselves Pasted and dryed, which were Dissected from Adult Human Bodies, and display'd on Tables now to be seen in the Repository of the Royal Society, and are the Generous Present of John Evelyn, Esq; from whom I received the following Letter, concerning them and other Tables of the Nerves, &c.; to which I have subjoyn'd a further account, &c. Vid. Act. Erud. pag. 2. ~ MDCLXXX II. For Mr Cowper. HEaring, Sir, that you are causing the Tables of Veins, Nerves, &c. (which I some time since brought out of Italy) to be accurately delineated, in order to their being Ingraven, as more Correct than any that are yet to be found among the Figures of those Vessels in Books of Anatomy; and desirous to understand how they ~ to my hands, I send you this little History of them, for your satisfaction. T t t t t t t Being (1178) Being some years since in Italy, and Curious of seeing the many repeated Dissections at the Anatomical Theatre at Padoa, Cavalier Vestlingius being then Professor, and Reading on divers Bodies several days, during the Lent; Dr Johanno Athelsteinus Leoncenae, who was then Opera or, by Extracting the Veins, and other Vessels which contain the Blood, Spirits, &c. out of Humane Bodies, (which the many Hospitals and Infirmaries of that City plentifully afford) begun to apply, and distend them on Tables, according to their natural proportion and position, as an Improvement which might be of use in Anatomy: Some of these Tables, being finish'd, with the Direction and Public Approbation of the Professor and several other Learn'd Physicians and Anatomists, present at those Lectures and Operations; and understanding that Leoncenae was going shortly (I think) into Poland, and willing to dispose of his Tables, before he took his Journey; I desir'd the late Dr Geo. Rogers, (Consul then at Padoa for the Students of our Nation in that University) to purchase and procure them for me; which he did, for, as I remember, 150 Scudi; with Condition, that he should add a Table more, namely, that of the Liver, Gastrick Nerves and other Vessels, to compleat the Fourth: When these were perfected, I immediately sent them to Venice, from whence they were shipp'd for England: But, upon what Accident or Occasion I know not, the Vessel was carried into Holland, and lay there a year or two, (without any tydings what was become of my Concerns, being then my self at Paris) till coming at last to be unladen, Sir Richard Ford (afterwards Lord Mayor) finding by some Papers and Letters, with Directions on the Cases, and several Bales of Books, and other things (which I had been collecting in Italy, that they belonged to me) took care to have them all safely convey'd to me at London, to my no small charges. Dr Scarborough was one of the first I shew'd the Tables to; who would have tempted me to part with them for a very considerable summ as I suppose, for my Lord Marquess of Dorchester; which I refusing, he desir'd I would lend them a little while to the Colledge; where he Read upon (1179) upon them, and kept them above a year, and thence return'd them to my House at Says-Court near Deptford; where they remained till the happy Restauration, when his Majesty Charles the II. hearing of them, was pleas'd to come and see them himself with great satisfaction. The Royal Society, for the promotement of Natural, and Experimental Knowledge, being a little after Instituted and Founded by that Curious Prince, and meeting at Gresham Colledge, I made a Present of my Tables to the Repository. J. Evelyn. These * Figures are closely Drawn after the Original Schemes, and I am apt to flatter my self they will be acceptable to the Inquisitive. It is some satisfaction that I find the Arteries here so agreeable to a Figure which I Drew and Published not long since, from the Arteries of a Faetus Injected with Wax. But this Figure of the Veins differs so much from any extant, as would incline one to suspect all of the subject hitherto published are Fictitious, not excepting even those of Vesalius. But first of the Arteries. * Fig. 1st, 6th and 8th. That the Arteries are the Vessels which convey Blood from the Heart to all parts of the Body, is well known; and we see by Fig. the 1st that the common practice of Nature in distributing these Vessels, to supply the parts with Blood, is from the next adjacent Trunk, till their Ascending and Descending Trunks become Conical, as well as their collateral Branches: Not that all the Trunks and Ramifications of Arteries are Uniform, and become Conical in the same manner; nor do all of Them pass directly to the parts to which They convey Blood; nor do all parts receive Arteries from their neighbouring Trunks. The Trunks of the Carotid, Vertebral and Splenick Arteries are not only Contorted in their progress, in the Adult; but the Diameters of their bores are variously Dilated in divers parts of Them, especially where They are ~; T t t t t t t 2 but (1180) but as these Dilatations of their Trunks are caus'd by the resistance the Blood meets with at those Angles of Inflection; so those Enlargements of them afterwards contribute to retard the protrusion of the Blood to the Extremities of those Arteries: Hence it is, That as the Arteries of the Faetus are not Contorted in such Acute Angles as in full grown Bodies, so their Trunks are more Conical, and not here and there dilated in divers parts of them, as in the Adult. The Trunk of the Splenick Artery has a straight progress in the Faetus and in Infants; but in the Adult I have hitherto constantly found it very much Contorted, as exprest in Fig. 1, 23. The peculiar Contrivances of the Spermatick Arteries of Quadrupeds as well as Men, shew a Constant design in Nature of taking off that Velocity with which the Blood would otherwise pass thro the Glands of the Testes: It seems to be for this end that the Testes of most Animals (especially Men and Quadrupeds) hang out of the Cavities of their Abdomens, that the canals of their Blood Vessels may be lengthened: for the Spermatick Arteries (contrary to all others) arise from their Great Trunk, at a far greater distance from the Testes than the Arteries of any other part of the Body. Nor would the Testes (which are such necessary Organs) been thus exposed to external Injuries, if the end of Nature in lengthening their Blood Vessels had not been very considerable. Besides this lengthening of the Spermatick Arteries, we find Nature still contriving other Impediments to check the Current of the Blood in those Parts; it seems for this end that the Spermatick Arteries are lessen'd at their Original from the Trunk of Arteria Magna in Men, and that the Spermatick Arteries of Quadrupeds are so much Contorted before they reach their Testes. The principal Inducement of Nature in making use of these different Contrivances in the Spermatick Arteries of Men and Quadrupeds seems to be, That (1181) That if the Humane Spermatick Arteries were contorted, as in Quadrupeds, before they reach their Testes, the Apertures in the Abdominal Muscles of Man must be much larger than they now are, and would frequently let the Intestines descend into the Scrotum; which we know nevertheless often happens: such Ruptures (as they are call'd) are not so Incident to Quadrupeds, tho the Passages for their Sperma~ tick Vessels (through their Abdominal Muscles) are much wider than in Men, because the position of the Trunks of their Bodies is Horizontal, and their Intestines therefore cannot press on the processes of the Peritonaeum, as in Men who are Erect. Besides these Artifices in disposing the Trunks of Arteries, I doubt not but much more will be Detected by the Inquisitive: In the mean time, I shall, at present, pursue the Thread, and describe the Extremities of the Arteries, with their Communications with the Veins, and afterwards produce some Instances of the Art of Nature in conveying the Refluent-Blood to the Heart. After the Circulation of the Blood through the Heart, Lungs,and large Blood Vessels, was demonstrated by Dr Harvey, it was only guest how the extremities of the Arteries transmitted the Blood to the Veins, till Mr Lewenhoeck's Microscopes had discovered the continuations of the Extremities of those Vessels in Fish, Frogs, &c. which is now commonly shewn by Microscopes made by other * Hands: Yet there are not wanting those who doubt of the like Continuations of the Extremities of Arteries and Veins in Human Bodies and Quadrupeds; since those Animals it has hitherto been seen in (to any satisfaction, as Mr Lewenboeck confesses) have been either such Fish, or of the Amphibious kind, that have but One Ventricle in their Hearts, and their Blood actually cold, except in Bats, in which it appears very obscurely: Add to this, that the Blood in those Creatures does not Circulate with such Rapidity as in Animals whose Hearts have Two Ventricles. For all Ani<inferred>mals</inferred>, See the following Transactions. (1182) mals, that have Biventrous Hearts, the Vessels of the rest of the Body return their Blood to the Heart in equal time and quantity with those of the Lungs, notwithstanding the Inequality of their Course. * This Difference in the principal Organs of the Circulation of the Blood in those Creatures, (on which only these Experiments have been hitherto made) mov'd me to make some, on Animals whose Organs differ only from the Humane in their gross Figure, and not in their Intimate Structure: For this end I took a young Cat, about ten or twelve days old, and fastened it to a Board as in Vivesection; and making an Incision through the Linea Alba, the Omentum and Intestines were extruded; then causing the Creature to be so held (on the Board) under a large Double Microscope, where a flat Glass for receiving of Objects was placed Horizontally, on which I expanded the Omentum or Caul, (a Light being placed underneath) I saw the Globules of the Blood move very swiftly in the small Vessels, which are only to be seen in the most Transparent parts of the Membranes of its Omentum; but the motion of the Blood soon abated, and its Globuls were withdrawn from the Extremities of its Blood Vessels; and in a little time became stagnant in their larger Branches. ~ Mr ~ in ~ reflections upon Antient and Modern Learning, Chap. xviii. Since it has been constantly found, that Nature follows like methods in all sorts of Animals, where she uses the same Instruments, it will always be believed, that the Blood Circulates in Men after the same manner as it does in Eels, ~, Bats, and some other Creatures, in which Monsieur Leeuwenhock tried it. Though the ways how it may be visible to the Eye in Men, have not, that I know of, been yet dis~. This appearance of the continuation of the Extremities of the Arteries with the Veins, while the Blood was moving in them, in the Omentum or Caul, is exprest by Fig. 4. A A shews the Trunks of the Arteries, B B the Veins, which were distinguishable by contrary currents of the Globules of the Blood in each Vessel. C C C shews the Branching of the Extremities of the Arteries and Veins, that no longer Associate with each other, but are United, as here exprest. After I had seen this, I attempted to shew the like to several Friends, but did not always succeed so well as when Mr Chambers and Mr Buckeridge favoured me with their presence, at a time when I happened to have a young lean Dog, that was not large; in whose Omentum we (1183) we saw it very well; but by the Assistance of an Instrument I had prepar'd to expand the Mesentery, we all saw it there much better; that part having not only larger and clearer spaces than the Omentum, but its Blood Vessels are distributed more regular, as appears by Fig, the 5th, where the same Letters of reference serve as above. Those who will entertain themselves in viewing the transparent parts of Living Creatures with Microscopes, will find that the extremities of their Arteries and Veins are not all equally lessen'd, tho united. In the Tail of the Lacerta Aquatica, Tadpols, and in most Fish (I have examin'd) I have frequently observ'd several Communications between the Arteries and Veins; in which more than two Globules of Blood have past abreast: And in the same Area I have seen some of those Communications so small, as that but one Globule could pass, and that very slowly before the other In young Fish, particularly in Grigs, I have frequently observ'd a Communicant Branch, so very small as that one Globule of Blood only has past it in two or three seconds of a minute: at other times I have found considerable Intervals in passing of one Globule in such a Communicant Branch; even half a minute, a whole minute, and once in two or three minutes I have seen one Globule of Blood only pass in a particular tract. The prompt passing of Liquors, injected by the Splenick Arteries, to the Veins, ~ the Communications between those Vessels are more open than the Arteries and Veins of other parts, of which I have elsewhere spoken. Liquors also Injected into the Pulmonick Arteries pass to their Veins, tho not altogether so freely as in the Spleen. On viewing the Extremities of the Pulmonick BloodVessels in a living Frog with my Microscope, I found their Communications much larger than those that I had before seen in the Membrane between the Toes and in the Feet of the same Creature. Nor can we reasonably doubt of the like patent Communications of the Arteries and Veins of Hu(1184) Humane I ungs and those of Quadrupeds, when we consider the Blood of their Lungs must return to the Heart in equal Time and Quantity, with that of all the parts of the Body besides, as before noted. Hence it appears the Bronchial Blood Vessels (first taken notice of by the Accurate Ruysch) are absolutely necessary, else the parts of the Lungs could not receive nourishment; nor could the Glands of the Bronchiae separate their Liquor, if they were supplied with Blood from the Pulmonick Blood Vessels which is so quickly dispatched thro the Lungs. On viewing the Membrane, that is between the Toes of one of the hinder Feet of a living Frog, after I had frequently taken hold of the same Leg of that Creature, to apply it to the Microscope, I found that Membrane very transparent, and without any motion of the Globules of the Blood in it, as if the part had been dead; but while I was looking on it,it was, I confess,not a little entertaining to see the Globules creep into it by degrees, and at length the Blood move in all the Branches of its Veins and Arteries as before, when no violence had been offered to the part: While the Blood is thus leisurely creeping through the the Vessels, you may plainly see its Globules comprest into Oval Figures, which are made more or less oblong, by the resistance those Globules meet with, by the contraction of the sides of the Vessels they pass through; and this I have more than once observed in the tails of the Water Newts or Lizzards: But on examining the Blood of these Creatures with a Microscope,and comparing it with the Humane Blood, I found the Globules of the Lizzards Blood more incline to an oval Figure, and were as big again as the Globules of Humane Blood, and that of a small Fish; which I in like manner viewed at the same time. It is not unlikely a sudden retrocession of Blood from the extremities of its Vessels often happens, and its Circulation in the same Vessels, is afterwards carried on without any impediment; as on some Passions of the Mind, (1185) Mind, Deliquiums by the effusion of Blood; or otherwise. But if the Blood is once become stagnant in its Vessels (especially the Arteries) the part is in no small danger of a Mortification, unless its neighbouring Vessels, which enjoy the motion of the Blood, drive on the stagnant Blood, and it escape by the sides of the Vessels that retain'd it. Experience assures us, that in Bruises when the Blood is extravassated, it goes off either by Transcolation or else causes an Abscess; for there's little reason (in my opinion) to suspect any of the stagnant Globules of the Blood will be fit to re-unite with the Circulating Mass. But that the Blood after stagnation in its Vessels will sometimes pass their sides, appear'd to me from the following Experiment. On viewing the Mesentery of a Dog when living, in which I had before seen the Blood passing the extremities of the Arteries and Veins, I consider'd how to preserve the Blood in its Vessels, that I might afterwards at any time see it in their Extremities when stagnant: For this end I caus'd several parts of the Mesentery to be tyed on as many pieces of small round Pill-Boxes, cut transversely like little hoops; on which, Portions of the Mesentery were extended like the head of a Drum; and on viewing them afterwards with my Microscope, I found the Extremities and Branches of the Blood Vessels charged with Blood, which before appeared in Motion; some of which parts of the Mesentery I still keep by me. On laying one of these Parts of the Mesentery (thus expanded) in Water, the stagnant Blood in its Vessels disappear'd; but on just immersing another of those Pieces in Water, I could with my Naked Eye see the stagnant Blood diffused in the Interstices of the Blood Vessels, and between the Membranes of the Mesentery: Hence it's evident, the Blood may pass the sides of its Vessels after stagnation in 'em; but whither its Globules are broken, or what figure renders them fit to pass those pores that are in the sides of the Vessels, I leave to the Inquisitive; but we must return to our Tables, and first of that of the System of the Vena Cava. U u u u u u u As (1186) As the Arteries are known to export the Blood, so the Veins carry it back again to the Heart; but having already described their Extremities, we come next to the large Trunks of the Veins; and here, as in the Arteries, we find the common practice of Nature, in disposing the Branches of Veins to discharge the Refluent Blood into the next adjacent Trunk, and so on to the Heart. As the Arteries afford abundance of Instances of Checks given to the Velocity of the Current of the Blood through several parts, so the Veins supply us with as many Artifices to assist its regular return to the Heart, as well as favour those Contrivances in the Arteries. The Trunks of the Carotid, Vertebral and Splenick Arteries are not only variously Contorted, but are also here and there Dilated; so the Veins that correspond to those Arteries are also variously Dilated. The beginnings of the Internal Jugulars have a Bulbous cavity (Fig. 7. H, H,) which are Diverticuli to the Refluent Blood in the Sinus's of the Dura Mater, left it should descend too fast into the Jugulars. The like has been also taken notice of by Dr Lower in the Vertebral Sinus's. The Splenick Vein has divers Cells opening into it near its Extremities in Human Bodies; but in Quadrupeds the Cells open into the Trunks of their Spleenick Veins. The Spermatick Veins do more than equal the Length of the Arteries of the Testes in Men; their various Divisions and several Inosculations and their Valves,are admirably contriv'd to suspend the Weight of the Blood, in order to discharge it into the larger Trunks of the Veins; and were it not that the Refluent Blood from the Testes is a Pondus to the Influent Blood from the Arteries, and still lessens its current in the Testes; these Spermatick Veins, like those of other parts, might have discharged their Blood into the next adjacent Trunk. Who can avoid surprize at the Art of Nature, in contriving the Veins that bring part of the Refluent Blood from the lower parts of the Body? when they consider the necessity (1187) cessity of placing the Human Heart, as well as that of most Quadrupeds, so far from the Center of the Body towards its upper part? It is for that end necessary the large Trunks of the Veins and Arteries should not associate each other; for if all the Blood sent to the lower parts, by the Descending Trunk of the Aorta, should return to the Heart again by one single Trunk (as it is sent out from thence) the Weight of so much Blood in the Ascending Trunk of the Vena Cava, (Fig. 6. C, C, A) (for so its lower Trunk is call'd) would oppose the force the Heart could give it from the Arteries, and hinder its ascent: For this reason the Vena Azygos (Fig. 6, b) or sine pari, is contriv'd to convey the Blood sent to the Muscles of the Back and Thorax into the Descending Trunk of the Vena Cava (ib. B. A.) above the Heart: Hence it's evident, more Blood comes into the Heart by the Descending, or upper Trunk of the Vena Cava, Fig. ib. B, A. than passes out by the Ascending Trunks of the Aorta. Nor does this quantity of Blood convey'd to the Heart by the Superior Trunk of the Cava, seem without some other design in Nature, besides Transporting it thither to free the Inferiour Trunk from its Weight: But perhaps it was necessary so much Blood should be ready there to joyn with the Chyle, (Fig. 6. ~) for its better Mixture, before it reaches the Right Auricle of the Heart. Vid. Lower ~ Corde, cap ~ pag. 1. I might here add the Description of a Peculiar Valve I lately discovered in the Lower Trunk of the Vena Cava, near the Right Auricle of the Heart; but the Annext Figures have taken up too much room in these Copper Plates to insert it: For the same reason, the Figures of some Contrivances in the Arteries here mention'd, particularly the Spermaticks, are omitted: This being what occurr'd to my Thoughts at present on this subject, which is not to be found (at least not commonly) in the Books of Anatony: The greatest part of which have been added to these Papers, on their lying by me since the Graver began the Figures. U u u u u u u 2 The (1188) The Explications of the Figures. Fig. 1. REpresents the Trunks and large Branches of the Arteries, Dissected from an Adult Human Body, when displayed and dryed; as they are now to be seen in the Repository of the Royal Society. 1. The Trunk of the Aorta cut from the Basis of the Heart. 2. That part of it, whence the Coronary Artery of the Heart does arise. 3. That part of the Arteria Magna, where the Canalis Arteriosus of the Faetus Terminates; which in an Adult becomes a Ligament. Vid. Fig. 2, 3. 4 4. That part of the Axillary-Arteries, by some called the Subclavian Arteries. 5. The Left Carotid Artery (in this subject it seems) arising from a Common Trunk with the Right Carotid and Axillary Arteries, as in some Quadrupeds. 6. The Left Cervical Artery, in this subject arising from the Trunk of the Arteria Magna, as exprest in a Figure given by Bergerus in the Acta Eruditorum An. 1698. pag. 295. But in all the Human Bodies in which I have hitherto Examined these Arteries, I have constantly found them as exprest Fig. 2. 6. 6. 7. The Arteries that carry Blood to the lower parts of the Face, Tongue, Adjacent Muscles and Glands. 8. The Trunk of the Temporal Artery, springing from the Carotid, and parting with branches to the Parotid Gland 9, and Temples 10, and parts Adjacent. 11. The Occiputal Arteries. 12. The (1189) 12. The Arteries that convey Blood to the Fauces Gargareon and Adjacent Muscles. 13. The Trunk of the Carotid Artery cut off, before it is Contorted in passing the Skull. 14. The Trunk of the Artery of the Arm parting with Branches to the Adjacent Muscles and Parts. * That part of this Artery which is sometimes prickt in Letting Blood, and makes an Aneurisma, in which case this Trunk of the Artery must be bared and firmly tyed above the Aneurisma; and if it afterwards happens (as it has been frequently known) that the flux of Blood to the Aneurisma in the Artery is not very much abated, tho the Artery has been tyed above: The Operator in that Case must make another Ligature on the Trunk of the Artery below its Aneurisma: These Collateral Communications of the Trunk of the Artery at the bending of the Cubit, preserve the Circulation of the Blood in the Cubit and Hand, tho the Trunk is totally comprest both above and below; and the same Trunk afterwards divided between those Ligatures. Hence it is, if one Ligature made above the wound in the Artery is not sufficient, but the Blood still pours out from below, the Patient will sooner recover the Action and Strength of the Muscles of the Cubit, than Those in whom the upper Ligature proves sufficient; the reason of which is obvious to any who consider that the Communicant Branches must be larger where the lower Ligature is required, then when the superior Ligature only is sufficient: These Communicant Branches (as I have seen them in some subjects) are here markt out in pricktLines vid. the Fig. While these Papers were lying by me, the two following Instances happen'd, in which the Communications of the large Trunks of the Arteries of the Cubit and Arm were remarkable. The first was A Boy of thirteen years, who, about three weeks before I saw him, receiv'd a Wound near the middle of the Cubit in which the Trunk of the Artery (markt in the Fig. ~.) was (1190) was divided. The Surgeon who was first call'd had frequently bound up the Wound, and put a stop to the several discharges of Blood (which they told me did not amount to less than 6 or 7 quarts at times) but not without a Compress on the Trunk of the Artery above the wound. On another impetuous Flux I was called; but seeing no small quantity of blood discharged, I was contented to let the Wound be bound up, in the same manner as it had been done before; omitting the Compress on the Trunk of the Artery above, and adding a piece of Deal-board, on which the Hand and Cubit were fastened, to prevent any Motions of those parts, as well as the Fingers: Three days after, the applications were taken off, and little or no Blood appear'd; but two or three hours were scarce elapsed ~ I was alarm'd with notice of a fresh Flux. The By-standers being instructed in that case, to compress the Trunk of the Artery above the Cubit, they had thereby prevented no small effusion of Blood, which must otherwise have happen'd: His Surgeon being out of the way, I laid the Trunk of the Artery bare above the Wound as expeditiously as I could, being forced more than once to let loose the compress above to discover its Orifice by the Flux of Blood. I passed a Needle with strong Waxed Thread under the Artery, and made a ligature on its Trunk, which lay concealed in the Interstice of the Musculus Flexor Digitorum, and the Musculus Ulnaris Flexor Carpi;) but notwithstanding this Ligature on the Trunk of the Artery above the Wound, the Blood still flow'd from the Lower Trunk of of the Divided Artery, yet the velocity of its Current was so much abated, that it seem'd like Blood flowing from a Vein. I left the Wound with a digestive, and the part without hard bandage, it being now five weeks since, I hear the Wound is almost Cicatriz'd. The Learned Dr Harris was present at the other Operation, by which the Communications of the large Trunks of the Arteries of the Arm were very evident. A (1191) A Boy about eight years of Age, who came to Town with an Aneurisma of the Left Arm, upon Bleeding 6 weeks before. The Tumour was indeed very large in proportion to so small an Arm. After laying the Aneurisma or Tumour bare, and making a Ligature on the Superior Trunk of the Artery (in the annext Fig......) I found, on loosning the Compress on the superior Trunk of the Artery, very little abatement of the Pulsation of the Aneurisma; I then passed a Ligature in like manner on the Trunk of the Artery below the Tumour; but notwithstanding, the Pulsation continued, tho much abated. I then discovered another Trunk of the Artery, arising from the lower part of the Tumor, on which also I made another Ligature, and the Pulsation was then taken off. However, on cutting off the surface of the Cystis or dilated Artery, and clearing it of the coagulated Blood, there still poured out some fresh Blood, which was soon stopt with a common astringent; I left the part without any other Ligature or hard Bandage. It is now eighteen days since the Operation, the Ligatures on the Arteries are all come off, and the Pulsation of the Artery of the Wrist begins to be very manifest, nor does any Symptom appear that threatens success. 15. The division of the Trunk of the Artery of the Arm below the Flexure at the Cubit. 16. The external Artery of the Cubit, which makes the Pulse, that is commonly felt near the Carpus. 17. The Arteries of the Hand and Fingers. 18. The Mammary Artery. 19. 19. The descending Trunk of the Arteria magna. 20. 20. The Intercostal Arteries. 21. The Arteria Caeliaca. 22. The Arteria Hepatiea. 23. The Trunk of the Arteria Splenica. 24. The Arteria Epiploica Sinistra. 25. A Branch of an Artery which passes to the bottom of the Stomach. 26. The (1192) 26. The superior Coronary branch of the Stomach. 27. 27. The superior Mesenterick Artery. 28. 28. The emulgent Arteries. 29. The inferior Mesenterick Artery. 30. 30. The Lumbal Arteries. 31. 31. The two ~ Arteries, which in this subject, seem to arise at a greater distance from each other than commonly. 32. The Iliack Artery. 33. The Arteria Sacra. 34. The Internal Iliack Branch. 35. The External 36. The Epigastrick Artery. 37. Branches of the External Iliack Artery, passing to the Oblique Muscles of the Abdomen. 38 38. The Arteries that pass to the Muscles of the Thigh and Tibia. 39. The Crural Artery. 40. The Umbilical Artery, with those of the Penis. 41. That part of the Crural Trunk that passes the Ham. 42. The three Trunks of the Arteries of the Leg. 43. The Arteries of the Foot and Toes. F I G. 2. THe Trunks and some of the Ramications of the Arteries of an adult Human Body fill'd with Wax,to shew the Variety in Nature, and supply the defects of the former Figure. 1. The Aorta cut off at the Basis of the Heart. A. The three Semilunary Valves as they appear when the Heart is in Diastole, and hinder the Blood coming back from the Arteries into the Left Ventricle of the Heart. B. A Portion of the Trunk of the Arteria Pulmonalis. b, b. its division before it passes to the right and lest Lobes of the Lungs. C. The descending Trunk of the Arteria Magna. D. D. The (1193) D D The Internal Mammary Arteries. 2 The Trunk of the Coronary; cut off. 3 The Ligamentum Arteriosum, which in the Faetus is the Canalis Arteriosus, and conveys Blood from the Pulmonick Artery to the Great Artery. 4. The Trunk of the Subclavian Artery. 5. 5. The Carotids. 6. 6. The Vertebrals. 7. 7. The Arteries which pass to the lower parts of the Face, Tongue, Adjacent Muscles and Glands. 8. 8. The Trunks of the Temporal Arteries arising from the Carotids, giving Branches to the Parotid Glands (9. 9) and the Temples (10. 10.) &c. 11. 11. The Occiputal Arteries. 12. The Arteries of the Fauces, Gargareon, &c. 13. 13. The Contortions of the Carotid Arteries, as they pass the Basis of the Skull: These Trunks of the Carotid Arteries in Dogs (like those I guess of most Quadrupeds) are very much Contorted before they reach the Basis of the Skull: on filling these Vessels of that Animal with Wax, I found those Branches of them which pass to the Brain, first clipping the hinder parts of the lower Jaw, immediately under its Condiloide Processes; where those Arteries are received in two Sinus's of that Bone, which Sinus's may also be seen in the Jaw-bones of other Quadrupeds, but not in Human Bodies. 14. 14. Those parts of their Trunks that pass by each side of the Sella Turcica, whence divers small Branches arise, and help to compose the Rete Mirabile; which is more conspicuous in Quadrupeds than in Human Bodies. 15. 15. The Contortions of the Vertebral Arteries, where we find their Trunks considerably dilated. 16. The Vertebral Arteries, as they ascend on the Medulla Oblongata towards the Annular Protuberance or Pons Varoli. X x x x x x x 17. 17. (1194) 17. 17. The Communicant Branches of the Vertebral and Carotid Arteries. 18. 18. The Arteries of the Brain displayed. F I G. 3. I Choose to place this Figure on the Copper Plate of one of the Trunks of the Arteries of the Tibia (dissected from the Leg after Amputation) rather than the following Distich, which I find written on the Original Table of this Scheme of the Arteries. Pulsificus Sanguis de Cordis Ventre finistro, Funditur ut Corpus nutriat hisce vijs. Before I explain the Letters of Reference of this 3d Figure, it will be necessary to let you know that Mr Stringer was in his sixty seventh year when this Artery was taken from him, and near twenty years before lost the use of both his Legs; and in that time he had been so persecuted with Convulsions in them, that neither Leg was free a quarter of an hour together, whether Sleeping or Waking. At length one of his little Toes mortified, which was taken off by Mr Goldwyer, and Expert Surgeon of Salisbury; not long after more Toes of the same Foot followed the like sate: The Convulsions following that Leg stronger and quicker: That part of the Foot next the Toes became tumid and inflam'd, the Tumor extending itself above the Maleoli: A Sinuous Ulcer passed by the side of one of the Metatarsal Bones; the extremity of which Bone (whence the Toe was taken off) lying bare. In this condition I found the Left Foot and Leg of this Gentleman, when I had the Honour to wait on him by Command of the Right Honourable the present Earl of Shaftsbury, he living in the Neighbourhood of that Noble Peer in Wiltshire; where I met with Mr Goldwyer above-mention'd; and finding the Leg very chilly, the necessity of parting with it was too evident; which (1195) which Mr Stringer suffer'd with extraordinary Fortitude, He not so much as expressing the least Outcry during the Operation, tho the part did not want the most exquisite sense of feeling: On the Abscision (which was about five or six Inches below the Knee) it was unexpected, by me, I must confess,to see so little Blood spouting from the Arteries. The Stump being bound up, and committed to the Hands of two or three Servants, a less number not being sufficient to hold it, by reason such strong Convulsive motions pursued the part on the Operation. I was very desirous to examin the Arteries of the Amputated Leg,having before discovered the Cause of a Mortification of the Arm of a Young Gentlewoman,who dy'd not long after an Amputation of the part, tho theGangreen did not appear to reach near the place where the Abscision was made: (i. e. below the ending of the Musculus Deltoides) In which Case, I found the sides of the Trunk of the Artery of the Arm so thickn'd, that the Diameter of its Bore was Contracted to less than a third part, and would scarce admit a Common Probe to pass it, vid. Fig. G. H. I. When I had found the ends of the Arteries in the Leg above-mention'd, I endeavour'd to pass my Probe into one of them, but meeting with some opposition, I suspected I had mistaken the Vein for the Artery, and that the Valves opposed the passing of the Probe that way; but on further diffection I clear'd the Trunks of both those Blood Vessels, and found the Veins in their Natural state; but the sides of the Arteries were grown Bony or Stony; having clear'd two of their Trunks, I left one of them at Salisbury, the other I brought to Town, and is here Figur'd. A The Upper part of the Artery cut off in the Amputation of the Leg; from A to B The Trunk of the Artery distended and dry'd to shew its Canal. C That part of the Trunk of the Artery which was so contracted by the Petrifaction or Ossification, that a Probe would not pass its Canal; From C to X x x x x x x 2 D The (1196) D The Trunk of the Artery opened and expanded. E E The Petrifications or Ossifications in the sides of the Artery. F F Their specks in the lower part of the Artery, not so large as in the upper part, and placed at greater distances. a a &c. The Branches arising from the Trunk of the Artery. G, A Portion of the Trunk of the Artery of the Arm above <inferred>mentioned</inferred>. H The sides of the Artery very much thickned, whereby the Diameter of its Canalis was so Diminished that the Probe I, would not pass it. The ~ in the Coats of Arteries have been frequently Observ'd,especially in their large Trunks within the Cavities of the Thorax and Abdomen; but I don't remember the like has been taken notice of in the Limbs; or that such impediments in their Canals have been found the Cause of Mortifications of particular parts, as in the Instance abovemention'd; tho I doubt not, but the like has often happen'd in Aged people, especially where we find the progress of the Gangreen not very swift, and its beginning from no external Cause; the Consequences of which are commonly found Fatal. When the Arteries of one Leg (or of any other Limb) are so affected, we may well suspect the like in those of other parts; which probably happened in the Instance I now mention'd; for tho no Gangreen came on the stump, yet the other Foot and Toes began to Mortifie about 6 weeks after the Amputation, as did the parts about the Hips, which were Comprest in Laying or Sitting, before he expir'd. F I G. 4. R Epresents the Extremities of the Blood Vessels, as they appear while the Blood is passing them in the Omentum of a live Dog, view'd with a Microscope. A A The (1197) A A The Branches of Arteries, and B. B. the Veins which Associate. C C their lesser Branches where they pass from each other, and are United at their extremities. F I G. 5. THe like appearing in the Mesentery of a Dog when living. D D, The Areae, that are here viewed with the Microscope, as they appear to the naked Eye. F I G. 6. THe Trunks of the Vena Cava, with their Branches <inferred>Dissected</inferred>sected from an Adult Humane Body, done from the Original Scheme in the Repository of the Royal Society. A A The Orifice of the Vena Cava, as it appears when cut from the Right Auricle of the Heart. a The Orifice of the Coronary Vein of the Heart. B. A. The Superior, or Descending Trunk of the Vena Cava. C, C, A, The Inferior or Ascending Trunk; so distinguished from the motion of the Blood in these Trunks, which is contrary to their Position. D D, The Subclavian Veins. ~. That part of the Left Subclavian Vein, where the Thoracick Duct enters it, and discharges itself of its Chyle and Lympha. b, The Vena Azygos with its Branches going to theRibs,e,e. c. The Superior Intercostal Veins. d, d, The Internal Mammary Veins. E, E, The Right and Left Iliack Branches. F, F, The Internal Jugular Veins. G, G, The External Jugulars. H, H, The Veins which bring Blood from the lower Jaw and its Muscles. I, I, The Trunks of the Internal Jugulars cut off at the Basis of the Skull. f, The Veins of the Thymus and Mediastinum. g, g, (1198) g, g, The Veins of the Thyroid Glands. h, The Vena Sacra. i, The Internal Iliack Branch. k, The External K, K, The Occiputal Veins. L, The Right Axillary Vein. M, The Cephalick. N, The Basilick. O, The Median Vein. P, The Trunk of the Veins of the Liver. Q, The Phrenick Vein of the Left side. R, The Right Phrenick Vein. r A large Vein from the left Glandula Renalis and parts adjacent. S, The Left Emulgent Vein. T The Right Emulgent, in this subject very much lower than the Left, which is not usual. V V The two Spermatick Veins. X X Two Communicant Branches between the Ascending Trunk of the Vena Cava and Vena Azygos, by which the Wind passes into the Descending Trunk of the Cava, when we blow into the Ascending at A. P C. tho the Trunk at A. P. and C. is firmly tyed on the Blow-pipe. * An uncommon Branch between the lower Trunk of the Vena Cava and the Left Emulgent Vein. y A Vein which brings Blood from the Muscles of the Abdomen into the external Iliack Branch. z The Epigastrick Vein of the Right side. l The Vena Saphena. The rest of the Branches here displayed commonly differ so much in various subjects, that the particular descriptions of them (which none but the Operator who dissected them could pretend to be master of) would be perhaps as useless, as tedious to repeat: Wherefore I pass to those con siderable venous Trunks which are wanting in this Scheme. F I G. (1199) F I G. 7. SOme of the large Trunks of the Veins and their Sinus's within the Skull, with the Beginnings of the Internal Jugular Veins, filled with Wax and dryed together with the Falx, &c. A The extremity of the Falx cut from the Crista Galli. a Its lower Limbus that touched the Corpus Callosum, as it divides the Right Haemisphere of the Brain from the left; where the Fifth Sinus passes, which is here dryed and disappears. B. B. The second process of the Dura Mater, which supported the hindmost parts of the Lobes of the Brain, and defended the Cerebellum from being prest by those parts of the Cerebrum. C A portion of the Dura Mater remaining to the Longitudinal Sinus. D. D. Several Trunks of the Veins of the Brain cut off before they enter the Longitudinal Sinus. E E The Longitudinal Sinus's. F F The two lateral Sinus's. G The fourth Sinus. g The Veins from the Plexus Choroides. H H The Bulbi or Diverticuli at the beginnings of the Internal Jugular Veins. I I The Internal Jugular Veins. K K The Trunks of Veins, which bring Blood from the lower Jaw and parts adjacent. F I G. 8. THe Trunks of the Vena Portae dissected and displayed; done from the Original Scheme in the Repository of the Royal Society. A A The Branches of the Vena Portae freed from the Liver. a The Umbilical Vein. B The (1200) B The Splenick Branch. C C The Mesenterick Branches which are continued from the Intestines. b. The Trunk of the Vena Pancreatica, which receives Branches also from the Duodenum. c. c. The Vena Gastrica dextra Coronaria Superior. D The Superior Coronary Vein of the Stomach of the Left Side. E The Inferior Coronary Branch of the Stomach of the Right Side, and F The same Coronary Vein of the Left Side removed from their proper scituations; from these two last are continued the Vena Epiploica Superior dextra 1, and the Sinistra 2, with the Media 3. G The Vein call'd Vas Breve. d The Vena Duodeni. H The Vena Haemorroidalis arising from the Rectum and Anus, in this subject emptying itself into the left Mesenterick Branch; but in other Bodies (and particularly in a preparation of these Veins, which I have now by me) I find this Trunk of the Haemorroide Veins ending in the Ramus Splenicus. The length of the Trunk of this Haemorroide Vein, and its progress under the Intestines, renders it liable to be compress'd, and its Refluent Blood retarded; whence its Branches in the Intestinum Rectum and Anus become distended with Blood, and cause the Haemorroides Caecae and Apertae; which are frequently attended with Aposthumations in the Anus and parts adjacent; which disorders are the more incident, not only because these Haemorroide Veins (like the rest of the Branches of the Vena Portae) are without Valves, and the Blood has an Ascending progress in them, together that the long Trunk (H) is not only exposed to the Compressions made by the Intestines in both Sexes: But particularly the Uterus in Women in time of Gesiation, especially near the Birth, so Com~ this Trunk, that it's no wonder we find Women more (1201) more asflicted with the Haemorroides at that time, than at any other. Nor are the Iliac Veins and the Lympheduct that accompany them, without being exposed to the like Incumbrance in Women with Child, whence the Veins of the Legs and Thighs become Varicose, and these Limbs are so frequently swoln; which, in a late instance I was acquainted with, when the Intumescence proved so great, that at length the Abdominal Teguments were vastly extended; but the Gentlewoman recovered (beyond the expectation some) on the happy Delivery of two large Children. 