SXII. Account of some remarkable Caves zXn the PrincipQlity of Bayreuth, and of the fosszl Bones J:ound therezn Extracted from a Paper sent, with Specimens of the Bones, as a Present to the Royal Society, by his most Serene IIighness th Mar grazxe of Anspach, Sc. Pkead January oo 17g A RIDGE of primeval naountains runs aImost through Gerv many, in a direction nearly from west to east; the Harts, the motlntains of Thuringia, the Fichtelberg in Franconia, are diffierent parts of it, which in tlleir fartlaer extent corlstitute the Riesenberg, and join the Carpathian mountaitls, the highest parts of this ridge are grallite, alld are flanked by alluvial and stratified mountainsa consisting chiefly of liluestone, marl, and sandstolle, such at least is the tract of hills in which the caves to be spokell of are situated, and c)ver these hills the main road leads from Bayreuth to Erlang, or Nurenberg. Half way t(3 tllis town lies StreitbergS where there is a post, and btlt three or four English miles distant from thence are tlle cantes mentioned, near Gailenreuth and Klaussteill, two sinall villages, insignificallt in themselves, but -become falnous for the discolreries made in their laeiglabour hood. The tract of hills is tllere broken off by many slmall alld narrosr vallies, confined mostly by steep and high rockso herq and there-overllal1ging, and threatenin^,, as it were, to fall;: +QX 3 24ccount of sozze remartD;?e Caves, Sc.4ORand crush all beneaih s and every where thereabouts are to be met witll objectsS svhic l suggest tlle idea of their being evident vestiges of some general and mighty catastrophe wllich happened in the prneval times of the globe. The strata of these hills consist chiefly of limestone of various colour and texture, or of marl and sandstones. The tract of lilnestone hills abotlnds with petrifactiorB of varioUSt killds.. 'rhe rn-ain erltrance to tlle c-aves at Gailenreuth OpellS near the summit of a limestone 11i31 towards the east. An arcll, near seven feet higha leads into a kind of atatichamber, 80 feet in length, and goo feet in circumference, hich CVllStitUt@$ the vestibule of four other caves. This anticllamber is lofty; and airyS but h-as no light except what enters by its open arch; its bottom is level, and covered with black mould, a1thougll the colamen soil of the environs is loam and marl. By seareral circumstances it appears, that it has been made use of in turbulexlt times as a place of refuge From this vestibule, or J2rst cave, a dark and narrow alley opens ill the corner a-t the south endS alld leads into the second care, which is about do feet long, S high, and 40 broad. Its sides alld roof are covered, in a wild and rough manner, with stalactites, columns of which are halaging from the roof, others rising frorn the botton, meeting the first in many whimsical shapes. The air of this cavea as well as of all tlie restS is always cool, and llas, even in the height of summer, been found below temperate. Caution is therefore necessary to its visitors; for it is remarkable, that people having spent any time in this or the other caverns, always on their coming out again appear 3Fi. Sccount of somc rem4rkatIe CaFveso4pale, which in part may be owing to tlle coolness of the airs and in part likewise to the particxllar exhalations within the carres. A very narrow, windingf and troublesome passage opens fartller into a Third cave, or chamber of a rourldish form and about So feet diameter, covered all over with stalactitesX Very near its entrance there is a perpendicular descelat of about 2O feet, into a dark and frightful abyss S a laddler tuust be brought to descend into it, ancl caution ls 1lecessary in using it, on account of the rough and slippery stalactites. Wherl you are down, you etlter into a gloomy cave of about o^ feet diameter, and So feet higll9 lnaking properly but a segmerlt of the third cave. In the passage to tllis third cave some teetll alad fragments of tones are found; but coming down to the pit of the cave you are every way surrounded by a rrast heap of animal remains. 'rlle bottom of this cave is paved with a stalactical crust of near a foot in thicknessX large all(l small frslglnents of all sorts of bones are scattered every where oll the surface of the ground, or are easlly drawn out of tlle mouldering rtlbbish. rtlle very valls seem filled with variolls and innumerable teeth and broken borzes. rthe stalactical covering of the ulleven sides of the cave does not reach quite down to its bottom, whereby it plainly appears that this vast collection of animal rubbishX some titne ago filled a lligher space in the cave, before the bulk of it sunk by moulderirlg This place is in appearance very like a large quarry of sandstonesX and indeed the largest and fillest blocks of osteolitE>ical concretes might be hevrz out in any number, if there was but room enough to cotne to thems and to carry t}wm In the Principalzty of Bayreutil.40sout. This bony rock has been dug into in diffierent places and every where undoubted proofs have been met with that its bed, or this osteolithical stratum, extends every way far belleatll and through the limestone rock, into whicla and throllgll which these caverns hasre beela made, so that the queries suggesting themselves about tlle astotlishing numbers of atlimals bllried here confound all speculatiorl. Along the sides of this third acavern there are some llarrower openings, leading int;o different smaller chambers, of which it cannot be said how deep they go. In some of thelu bones of sTnaller animals laave been founcl) sucll as jaw-bolaes, vertebrae, and tibis, in large heaps. The bottom of this cave slopes tosvard a passage sevell feet hlgh, and al)out as widea being the entrarlce to a Fourth cave, 20 feet higlln and 15 wide, lined a11 round witld a stalactical crust, and gradually sloping to anotller steep descent, where the ladder is wanted a second time, and must be used with caution as before, in order to get into a cave 40 feet laigh, alld about half as wide. In those deep alld spacious hollows, worked QUt throllgh flle lmost solid mass of rock, you again perceive with astonislument, immense numbers of bony fragments of all kitlds arld sizes, -sticking every where in the sides of the cave, or lying on the bottom. This cave also is surroulleled by several smaller otles; in one ot them rises a stalactite of ullcomll1oll bignessn being four feet high, and eigllt feet diameter, in the form of a trutacated colle. In another of those side grottoes, a very neat stalactical pillar presents itself, five feet in heigllt, and eight inclles in diameter. The bottom of a11 these grottoes is covered svith true animal mould, out of which may be dug fragments of bones. Account of some remarkable Caves &c.AodBesides the smaller llollows, spoken of before, rourld ths ;fourth caveX a very 2larrosr opentlg has been discovered in orwe of its corners. It is of very dilicult access, as it can be entered only in a crawling posttlrea This dismal atld dangerous passage leads into a Afth cave, of near go feet high, 43 lorlg9 and of unequal hreadth. To the depth of six feet this cave has been dug, and nothing laas been found but fragments of bones, and animal mould: the sides are finely decorated with stalactites of diffierent forms and colours; but even this stalactical crust is filled with fragments of bones sticking in it, up to the very roof. From this remarkable cave, another vfery low and narrow avenue leads into the last discovered, or the Sixth cave, not very large, and merely covered with a stalactical crust in which however, here and tllere bones are seen sticking. And here ends this connected series of most remarkable osteolithical caverns, as far as they have been hitherto explored, marly more may for what we know exist, hidden, ire the same tract of hills. Mr. ESPER has written a history in German of these caves, and given descriptions and plates of a great number of the fossil bqnes which have been found there. To this work we rnust refer for a more particular accollnt of them. 