(953) Experiments of Refining Gold with Antimony; made by Dr. Jonathan Goddard. The First with several parcels of fresh Antimony. THere was taken of Crown-Gold (which is, as they call it, of 22 keratts fine, or 11/12; and the Alloy is part Silver, part Copper, more of the Copper for the most part) to the quantity of 7 peny weight and 10 grains, i. e. 178 grains. This was melted down with two ounces and two drachms of Antimony(about six times as much as the Gold.) And because the Gold was put in plates, for the more certain melting and mixture; the first regulus of Gold being separated from the Antimony, both were powdered apart, and the regulus in the Melting-Pot laid upon the same Antimony and so both melted down again. In both which meltings such an heat was given,as made all of a clear light, even red heat, and boiling. Then the Pot was taken out of the fire, and all permitted to separate, settle, and cool in it. Upon breaking the Pot the regulus of Gold (being very distinct in the bottom, and easily separated from the Antimony) weighed 6 peny weight and 19 grains (163 grains.) N.B. That this way of cooling all in the Pots was observed in all the following Experiments, for the more certain separation and settlement of the Regulus, without effusion into the Antimony-Horn (as they call it) or hollow Iron-Cone. Which effusion, by consounding and cooling the mixture, may be some hinderance to a more perfect separation. And to be sure, in the bottom of the Cone there is always a thin crust of the crude Antimony, troublesom to be separated, without taking off some part of the Regulus. Note also, That Borax was used in every Pot, for prevention of the sticking of the Regulus to the bottom, and the Antimony to the sides of it; so that both were gotten off clean and in full quantity. 6 K Of (954) Of the Regulus a piece was broken off, which weighed 1 peny weight 14 grains and an half (381/2 grains,) and was kept to be refined upou the Copel apart. The weight of the Remainder was therefore 5 peny weight 4 grains and an half (1241/2 grains.) This Remainder being powder'd and put upon equal quantity of fresh Antimony, as at first, (i.e. two ounces and a quarter) and melted down, the Regulus weighed 3 peny weight and 2 grains, (74 grains). The other Piece of 1 peny weight 14 grains and half, being refined on a Copel from the Antimonial substance mixed with it (by exhalation, promoted sometime with a blast upon it, especially toward the latter end, as in all the following Experiments of Refining upon the Copel) weighed 1 peny weight 6 grains and half (301/2 grains:) and upon melting with Borax in a Crucible, lost not above half a grain. So that the weight of the whole to the Gold it held, was as 381/2 to 301/2, or the Gold almost 9/6 of the whole. The latter Regulus weighing 3 peny weight and 2 grains, (i.e. 74 grains) being Refmed in the same manner, weighed 2 peny weight and 15 grains, (i.e. 63 grains:) the Gold holding proportion to the whole, as 63 to 74, that is near upon 6/7 of the whole. So that the same Regulus of Gold and Antimony, in passing through new Antimony, though it lose much in weight, yet there is not a proportionable loss of Gold: but is richer in Gold, as is proved by this and many other Trials; and so appears to sense, being of a redder complexion, more tough and harder to powder. Both the parcels of Antimony being saved for separating the Gold remaining behind in them; they were severally mixed with equal weight both of Tartar and Nitre, and then fired, and so reduced to a Regulus. Then the Regulus of each,exhaled and blown off upon Copels. Of the first parcel of Antimony, wherewith the Gold was first melted, the Regulus being exhaled, there remained in Gold 1 peny weight 12 grains (36 grains.) Which upon melting in a Crucible lost somewhat, but scarce half a grain. Of (955) Of the second parcel of Antimony, wherewith the first Regulus of Gold and Antimony (weighing 5 peny weight 41/2 grains) was melted, there remained in Gold 1 peny weight 3 grains, (17 grains.) All the other parcels were fine Gold to sense, upon the Touch. Only that out of the first Antimony, was apparently unfine and pale, from the Silver in the original Alloy mixed with it, and not from any remainder of Antimony ~ as appeared by the inconsiderable waste upon melting in a great heat with a blast upon it: And also by the Toughness and Malleability: and by comparing it, on the Touchstone, with Sovereign-Gold allayed with Silver, to which it did agree, but was somewhat paler; holding, to the judgment of sense, about a fourth part of Silver, as the Sovereign-Gold doth a sixth. Neither was it altogether free from Copper; because, upon Nealing, it always turned black on the surface. But for more exact discovery, it was taken and first Refined with Lead upon a Copel, for separation of any Copper that might be in it. Upon which operation, it came forth 1 peny weight 91/2 grains (331/2 grains;) which was 21/2 grains less than it was before. Afterwards this last was melted with bet wixt two and three parts of Silver, and so wrought in Aqua fortis for separation of the Silver: and there remained in Gold 1 peny weight, 41/2grains (281/2grains) which was five grains short of the former. And yet it appeared,upon the Touch, not fine, but paler than Fine-Gold, and deeper than Crown Gold allayed with Silver. So that what remained in it was necessarily of Silver; and it might be estimated about 23 keratts fine; or to hold in fine Gold about 27 grains. What loss of Gold was upon this Refining with Antimony, may easily be computed. First, one ~ is to be deducted from the first quantity of Crown-Gold, being 7 peny weight and 10 grains, (178 grains) for Alloy; which is 14 grains and 1/6. So the remainder is, 6 peny weight, 19 grains and 5/6, or 163~grains. 6 K 2 Then (956) Then the several parcels of Fine-Gold recovered and separated from the Regulus of Antimony and Gold, and also from the parcels of the crude Antimony reduced to Regulus are to be added together: that is to say, 1 peny weight 6 grains, 2 peny weight 15 grains, 1 peny weight 3 grains, and 1 peny weight 3 grains (the 27 grains last mentioned:) All which amount to 6 peny weight 3 grains. Which being deducted from the first quantity of 6 peny weight 19 grains, the difference is 16 grains, which is 1 tenth and 3 sixteenths of one tenth. For a more particular estimate, where and how this loss of Gold ariseth, it appeareth, that the parcel of Antimony wherein the Gold was first melted, is to be charged with 163 ~ grains of fine Gold. Toward which, the first Regulus weighing 6 peny weight 19 grains, (163 grains) (in proportion to that piece of the same, weighing 1 peny weight 14 grains and half, and producing, upon refining on the Copel, 1 peny weight and 6 grains of pure Gold) must hold 128 grains of fine Gold. Then 1 peny weight and 3 grains (27 grains) of fine Gold, estimated to be contained in the 1 peny weight and 12 grains, separated from this parcel of Antimony, and refined both by the Copel and Partingwater (as in the former account given here of) being added to the 128 grains, makes 155 grains: which is short of 163 grains, by 8 grains; and so much was irrecoverably lost in this parcel of Antimony. The piece of Regulus weighing 5 peny weight and 4 grains, (or 124 grains) melted with the second parcel of Antimony (in proportion to the former piece broke off, weighing 38 grains, and upon refining yielding 30 grains of pure Gold) must contain 98 grains of the like Gold, and so much this second parcel of Antimony must be charged with. Toward which, the Regulus weighing 3 peny weight and 2 grains, being refined, produced 2 peny weight and 15 grains (63 grains). And that Gold separated from the same Antimony, being 1 peny weight and 3 grains, (27 grains) added to the former, make 90 grains: short of the first quantity charged on this parcel of Antimony by 8 grains. Some (957) Some loss of Gold may be upon powdering of the Regulus (rich in Gold) in an Iron-Morter, (for the more certain mixture with the Antimony than if it were put in in lumps) as also by the papers necessarily used. But it is most probable, that the greatest loss was by small sparks, which continually fly up while the Antimony is in a boyling heat with the Gold; which is always given it for the better satisfaction concerning the through melting and mixture. These Sparks appear heavy, by their rising not very high, and most of them falling down again upon the Metal and within the Pot: but many fly over into the fire. These Sparks appear to be Gold thus: When the Pot was covered with a plain smooth Earthen-cover, so that many of them, upon a ppulse, did stick to it, and colour'd it of a deep-Red; Aq. fortis was first poured on, which did not dissolve or fetch off any thing: after Aq. ~, which did plainly work upon that substance, and ran off yellow, like a solution of Gold in the same Water. It is not improbable also, that some loss of Gold may be upon the firing of the Antimony (after the separation of the Golden Regulus) for reducing it to a Regulus with Tartar and Nitre, which make a vehement conflagration with abundant sparkling. It hath been suspected, that somewhat of the Gold may be dissipated by the blast upon the Copels in refining it from the Antimony remaining in it. But this is not so probable; because Gold hath been melted several times with a greater proportion of Regulus of Antimony Simple, than is contained in the Golden Regulus, and refined from it with the greatest heat and blast that could be given, without any loss And it is the constant practice of some Refiners, who to give their Fine-Gold a higher colour for Gilding, to put to it one third or fourth part of crude Antimony, or of Regulus of Antimony, and with a great heat and strong blast work it off; in which operation, in some Ounces of Gold, they lose not one Grain. The (958) The Second Experiment of repeating the Operation with the same Antimony. There was taken of Crown-Gold to the weight of 5 peny weight 211/2 grains. Which was melted with one ounce and 3/4 (about a sixfold proportion) of Antimony. The Regulus weighed 5 peny weight and 3 gr. From this, a piece weighting ~ peny weight and 6 grains, broken off and reserved for refining by it self; the remainder, being 3 peny weight and 21 grains, was melted down again with the same Antimony, being powdered and put on the top: and thereupon the Regulus came forth, weighing 3 peny weight and 19 grains: so that here was no considerable loss. And there is ground to suspect, that it might be upon some accidental difference in the managing, that the Regulus did not so perfectly separate and settle: For in all other Experiments of melting the same Regulus again with the same Antimony, the Regulus gained weight; as in the next following. From this second Regulus, a piece broken off and reserved for refining a part, weighing 1 peny weight and 12 gr. the remainder being 2 peny weight 7 grains, was melted down, as the former, and in the same Antimony. Whereupon the Regulus came forth in weight 3 peny weight; 17 grains being here gained to 55 grains, making the whole 72 grains, i.e. between 1/4 and 1/5. The first piece of 1 peny weight and 6 grains, being refined upon the Copel, produced of Fine-Gold 1 p. weight just: which holds in proportion as 24 to 30. So that it contained four fifths of Gold, and but one fifth of Antimonial substance in it. The second piece weighing 1 p. w. and 12 gr. being refined upon the Copel, produced of fine Gold 1 p.w. and 4 gr. iu proportion of 28 to 36, which is rather less than four fifths, as in the former; but the difference is inconsiderable for quantity. The (959) The Regulus, upou the third melting, weighing 3 peny weight, refined upon the Copel, produced of fine Gold 2 peny weight and 7 grains. This holds in the proportion of four fifths: but somewhat short of the next before. Upon these comparisons, in this Experiment of repeating the melting of the Regulus with the same Antimony, the Regulus gaineth weight each time, but is in proportion lessrich in Gold: both which are contrary, in repeating the melting of the Regulus with fresh Antimony, as in the former Experiments. The remaining Antimony being reduced to a Regulus by firing with Nitre and Tartar, of each equal weight to it self, and that Regulus exhaled upon the Copel, there remained of Gold 19 grains. This was less fine than that fetched out of the first Antimony, in the former Experiment of passing Gold through several parcels of Antimony; though losing little sensible in weight, upon melting with a strong heat and blast upon it. So that the impurity was not from any remaining Antimonial substance in it; but from the Silver and Copper mixed with it in the first Alloy. And these were esteemed to be about a third part, by the judgment of the eye upon the Touch-stone. And so proved upon refining; first with Lead upon the Copel, for fetching out the Copper; upon which it weighed 17 grains and half, i.e. one grain and half short of what it was before: and then with ~ ~, after the melting down with more than the double weight of Silver; upon which Operation there remained 15 grains, and that not perfect fine, but retaining somewhat of Silver; but finer than CrownGold allay'd with Silver; upon the Touch, about twenty three keratts. For computing the loss of Gold upon this refining from the first quantity, videlicet, 5 peny weight 21 grains and half, a Twelfth part, (which is 12 grains, save about one fixth of a grain)being deducted for Alloy, the remainder is 5 peny weight 91/2 grains, and 1/6. And the several parcels of fine Gold produced of the Regulus, according to the account (960) count given in particular, added together; vid. 1 peny weight, 1 peny weight and 4 grains, 2 peny weight and 7 grains, and about 12 grains of fine Gold reckoned for the 19 grains of impure recovered out of the Antimony; all together make 4 peny weight and 23 grains: short of the 5 peny weight and 9 grains, by about 10 grains; i.e. as 10 to 129, or very near one thirteenth. The Third Experiment of exhaling the whole Antimony. A parcel of Crown-Gold, weighing 3 peny weight 10 gr. and half, was melted down with an ounce of Antimony (about the proportion of six to one); and the Antimony was exhaled in the Crucible to a Regulus, Then the Antimonial part of that Regulus was exhaled on a Copel. Whereupon there remained 3 peny weight and 12 grains: which was more than the first Gold by 11/2grain. This must happen, for want of a heat strong enough at last to force off all the Antimonial substance. Whence afterward, upon melting in a Crucible, it came short 4 grains; vid. 3 peny weight 8 grains, which was but 21/2 grains short of the first quantity, and is the least part of the proportion of Copper that must be in it, according to the usual Alloy of CrownGold: which is generally two parts to one of Silver, or at least the half. So that Antimony in a far greater proportion, doth not so much, as Lead, in exhaling or separating Copper from Gold; if the work be done meerly by Exhalation: but doth only retain it with it self, whilst the Gold separates and settles in a Regulus at the bottom. Neither is it so destroyed, but that it may, in part at least, be united to the Gold again. That (961) That there remained Copper in this Gold, appeared farther by the black complexion of it upon Nealing. As also by the loss upon working it with Lead on a Copel: whereupon it came forth 3 peny weight 4 grains, i. e. four grains short. 