XIII. The Case of a Woman, from whom the Bones of a Foetus were extracted. By Mr. Thomas Debenham, Surgeon, at Debenham in Suffolk. Communicated by the Rev. Mr. J. Clubb, Vicar of that Parish, to William Battie M. D. F. R. S. ON the 25 of April 1749, the wife of one Benjamin Last, a cooper, in the parish of Debenham, in the county of Suffolk, aged about 34 years, being pregnant of her eighth child, had all the symptoms of a woman in labour. Read Febr. 7. 1750. [93] labour. Accordingly, a midwife was sent for; who, from the violence of the pains, expected, that she would soon be delivered; but, to her great surprize, nothing ensued but a loss of blood, and the pains were considerably abated. A fever immediately came on, which cast her into an excessive faintness, and loss of strength, accompanied with a nausea. On the 26 of May, I was desired by her husband to visit her; and, by the account she gave me, I much suspected, that she must have miscalculated with regard to her time; and I proposed to examine her: but she, out of a mistaken modesty, not complying, I contented myself with cooling injections, mild cathartics, and cordial powders, &c.; by the use of which medicines she grew better; and, on the 26 of March following, undertook to walk a journey of 15 miles. I heard no more of her for the present; but, on the 27 of April 1750, the pains returned, very much like those of labour; which obliged her husband to call me out of bed. I immediately gave her an anodyne, which abated her pains, and composed <inferred>her</inferred> to rest. On the 14 of May, she felt a pricking pain in her navel, with a swelling and redness, which, in a few days, appear'd like a boil; when, being desired to inspect the tumour, I applied an emollient cataplasm. The next morning, upon removing my dressings, a fetid matter ensued; whereupon, dilating the small sinus with my scissars, the scapula of a foetus presented itself. On the 25 of July, by the direction of [94] of a physician, I undertook, by making a circular incision round the navel, to enlarge the orifice into the cavity of the abdomen, in order to extract the foetus that way: but the woman being very weak, and much emaciated, I could now only take off the scapula. The next day, I extracted one whole arm, some ribs, part of the vertebroe, &c. and, the day following, the greatest part of the remaining foetus, except the cranium, which seem'd to adhere to the intestines. This determined me to proceed very cautiously, and not to attempt the removal of it at once, but piecemeal, and by degrees, as opportunity would give me leave; which I did with my forceps: but, notwithstanding all my care, the sharp edges of the broken pieces of the cranium tore the intestines, so that the faeces issued from the wound at every dressing for several weeks together. The wound was daily dress'd with dry lint, spirituous fomentations, and cataplasms. Injections, made of sack and warm water, were found of great use, thrown in in large quantities; and (what is well worth observation) several parts of the bones, as the tibia, fibula, &c. were discharg'd by the vagina. By the means above-mention'd, and proper bandages, the wound was thoroughly deterged, incarned, and, by the use of epulotics, completely cicatrized; and the woman is now perfectly recovered, and since grown fat.'' N. B. [95] N. B. After the discharge of the whole foetus, the patient had milk in her breasts, as upon a natural delivery. Debenham, Jan. 18. Tho. Debenham. 1750-51. 