A N A C C O M P T Concerning the Baths of Austria and Hungary; as also some Stone-Quarries, Talcum rocks, &c. in those parts: By the same hand. IN order to answer some of the other queries; I here present you with this Accompt concerning Baths, and some other subjects, contained therein. Baden is a little City in Austria, four German miles Southward from Vienna, seated on a plain, but nigh unto a ridge of hills, which are the excursions of Mount Cetius. It is much resorted unto by reason of the Natural Baths of that place, wherein the Springs are so numerous, as to afford convenient Baths; two within the Town, five without the Wall, and 2 beyond a rivolet called Swechet. The Dukes-Bath is the largest, about 20 feet square, in the middle of an house of the same figure, built over it. The Vapour passes, through a tunnel of wood, at the top: and the Water is conveyed into the bottom of the Bath, at one corner, through woodden pipes and trees, under the Town-wall, from the Spring head, which riseth at a little distance West-ward. The Springs of the rest of the Baths rise under them, and are let in through holes of the Plancher, for all the Baths are wainscoted, the seats, sides and bottoms being made of Firre. The Water for the most part is clear and transparent, yet somewhat blewish, and maketh the skin appear pale in it, as doth the smoak of Brimstone. It coloreth Metals (except Gold, whose co(1045) colour it also heightens) turning them black in a few minutes. The Coyn of this Country, mixt of Copper and Silver, (having 7/15 of Silver, and 8/15 of Copper.) is in a minutes time turn'd from a white into a dark yellow, and soon after becomes black. To the Moss and Plants, which it washeth, it gives a fine green colour, and leaves often a scum upon them of a Purple mixt with white. As it runs from the Spring-head, it somewhat resembles the Sulphur-river in the way from Tivoli to Rome, but is not so strong or stinking, nor doth it incrustate its banks. The Spring-head is also considerable, in regard that it riseth under a rocky hill at some distance from the entrance into it: For, I pass'd to it, about the length of 40. yards,through an Arched passage cut in the rock, which is also a natural stove, (as that of Tritola and Bajae) made by the hot Bath water running under it. Most part of this Cave is incrustated with a white substance, by them called Salt-peter, whereof I have sent you some. At the mouth of the Cave it becomes harder and stony. I caused some of the pipes, through which the Bath-water runs, to be opened, and from the upper part of the pipe, I took some quantity of fine Sulphur in powder, somewhat like Flowers of Brimstone; this being as 'twere, sublimed from the water, and not deposed, being found in the upper part of the pipe. Oleum Sulph. per campanam dropped into this water, is received into it quietly. Oleumtart. per deliquium causeth an ebullstion, as in the making of Tartarum Vitriolatum. The second Bath within the Wall is that of our Lady, about 12 foot broad, and 24 long. One end of it is under a Church of the same name. This is fuller of Sulphur than the rest, and more blew,and leaveth a yellow Flower upon the boards, as the others doe a white. The third is the New Bath, out of the Town nigh the Gate: which when I saw was full of people singing. The fourth, the Jews-Bath, which hath a partition in the middle to separate the men from the Women. The fifth, St. Johns Bath, of a Triangular form. The sixth, the Beggars Bath, alwayes shallow, so as they ly down in it. The (1046) The Seventh, the Bath of the Holy-Cross, about two fathoms square, chiefly for the Clergy. The eighth, Saint Peters Bath, greener than the rest. The nin h, the Sower Bath, set about with Stone-balastres, and covered with an handsome Cupola and Lanthorn. The water is very clear; In the Steam of this Bath I have often colour'd mony black without touching the Water; and staying only in the room, where the Bath is, the buttons of my clothes, and whatelse of Silver the Vapour could come at, were colored yellow or guilded; and yet the water itself, once cold, changeth not the colour of Metals, though boyled in it. The hottest of these Baths have not the heat of the Queens Bath at Bath in England. They use no Guides, as with us, but direct themselves with a short turn'd staff. Manners-dorss, seated under an Hill on the East-side of the river Leyta hath onely one Bath. It riseth under a Church, built over the Spring-head. The water of it is luke-warm, and therefore they boyl it in great Coppers, when they desire it hotter, and bath in Tubbs, fill'd with this boyled water. From the substance, which sticks to the Coppers in boyling, it is collected, that it is impregnated with Sulphur, Salt-peter and Chalk. This water coloureth the stones in it of a fair green like a Turkois; and the Steam of it, which sticks to the Moss under the Church, turns into drops of Gold or Amber. Dotis, 2 Hungarian miles from Comora in Hungary, famous for being watered with great numbers of Springs, hath also Sulphureous Baths, said to be warm in Winter. I was there in March and October, and both times found their warmth very remiss, scarce perceiveable. In colour they are blewish, and to taste acid. The Queens-bath and the Great-Bath rise in a Marsh, North-ward of the Cattle. There is another Bath in the Governors garden within the Town. They are used as those of Manners dorf, by being boyl'd, and powr'd into Bathing tubbs. At Banka, two Hungar. miles from Freistat, in a Meadow, I took notice of 15. Baths: And there h ve been more, but the river Waag eateth away the banks, and swallows up the Baths, and into three of these 15. it hath also broke in. The Water of these is like to that of Baden in Austria; it leaves a white Sediment (1047) ment upon the Moss and places it washeth, and tinctureth metals black: which I experimented by putting money into it; and sticking some into the ground over which the water passeth, that part, which was in the ground, retained its own colour, and the other part in the Bath-water acquired a Coal-black. These Bathes are open, and very hot. The Baths of Boinitz nigh the river Nitra in Hungary, are of a moderat gentle heat, delightful to bath in, much beautifi'd by Count Palfi Palatine of Hungary: And all of them covered under one large roof. The first is the Noblemens Bath, built of stone descended into on all sides by stone-stayres. Four more there are of Wood, but very handsomly and well built. At Stub'n, 3 Hungarian miles from Newsol, and 2 from Chremnitz, near to a rivolet, are divers Baths of great esteem, and much frequented; the water whereof is clear, and smells of Sulphur; the sediment green. It colours the wood over it green and black, but does not change the colour of metals so soon as most others. I left money in it a whole night, which was yet but faintly coloured. The Springs arise under-neath, and pass thorough the holes in the plancher of the Baths. The heat thereof is answerable to the Kings-Bath in England. These Baths are 7. The first, is the Noblemans Bath. The second, the Gentlemans. The third, the Country-mans, The fourth, the Country-womans. The fifth, the Beggars-bath. The sixt, for such as are infected with the Lues Venerea. The seventh, the Bath of the Gypsies; of whom there are many in those parts. These Baths are in a plain, encompassed on all sides with hills. The nighest unto them are towards the East; and it is the same ridge of hills, which on the other side are so rich in Metals. Glas-Hitten, an Hungarian mile, or about 7. English-miles from Schemnitz, hath five Baths; two of which are large. It deposes a red sediment, and incrustates the wood and seates of the Bath under water with a stony substance; and it guildeth Silver. But the most remarkable of these Baths is that, which is called the Sweating Bath, whose hot Springs drain thorough an hill, and fall into a Bath, built to receive them; at one end of which, by ascending, I went into a Cave, which is made a noble Stove by the heat of these Thermae, and so order'd with K Seats, (1048) Seats, that every one who fits in it, either by chusing an higher or lower seat, may regulate his sweating, or injoy what degree of heat he desireth. This Cave,as also the sides of the Bath, are covered,by the continual dropping of these hot springs, with a red, white and green substance: the red and green make the best shew, but the white is used against the Stone,and cureth Ulcers and sore backs of horses. Eisen-bach, about 4 English miles from Glas-Hitten, and 5 or 6. from Schemniz, hath also hot Baths; which I suppose are those inquired after in your last Question. Here are sent you divers pieces of that sediment and stone,taken out of these Baths; and one, which I took from the end of a Spout, through which these Thermae had formerly passed. The wood still sticks to the bottom of it, but is not turned into stone (as you may see:) Yet I have seen great trees, plac'd at the top or superficies of the water in the Bath, which have suffered petrifaction. Here are two convenient Baths, much frequented; and a third, which is made by the water let out of the former, called the Snakes-bath, from the number of Snakes coming into and delighting in it, when it is filled with these warm waters. The natural Baths of Buda are esteem'd the noblest of Europe, not only in respect of the large and hot springs, but the magnificence of ther Buildings. For the Turks bath very much, and, though little curious in most of their private houses, yet are they very sumptuous in their Publick Buildings, as their Chans or Caravansara's, Mosches, Bridges and Baths declare. There are 8 Baths, whereof I had opportunity to take notice during my stay at Buda; 3 towards the East and South-Eastpart of the City, in the way leading towards Constantinople; and 5, towards the West-end of the Town in the way towards Old Offen, and Strigonium. The first,is a large open Bath at the foot of an high rocky hill, formerly called Purgatorium, whereof the people have some odd and scruplous apprehensions. The second is cover'd with a Cupola, and stands nigh the same Hill, but more into the Town, and near a place where they use Tanning. The third is called the Bath of the Green Pillars, though at present (1049) present they be of a red colour; and it stands over against the Caravansara. The water is hot, but tolerable, without addition of cold water.It is impregnated with a Petrifying juyce,which discovers it self on the sides of the Bath upon the Spouts and other places,and maketh a gray stone: And the Exhalation from the Bath,reverberated by the Cupola,by the Irons extended from one Column to another, and by the Capitals of the Pillars, formeth long stones like Ice-icles, which hang to all the said places; such as may be observ'd in many subterraneous Grotto's, and particularly in England in Okey-hole in Somerset-Shire, and Pooles-hole in Darby-shire. The water is let out at night, when the women have done bathing who often stay late. The Bath is round set about with large Pillars supporting a Cupola, which hath openings to let out the steam thereof; and yet the whole room continues to be an hotstove. The Baths of the West-end of the Town are 1. Tactalli or the Bath of the Table; a small Bath covered: the Water white, and of a Sulphureous smell. They drink of this as well as bath in it. What they drink, they receive from a Spout, bringing the Water into this place. I delivered a fivesols-piece to a Turk, bathing in it, to guild for me, which he did in about a minute, by rubbing it between his fingers, while the hot water fell from the spout upon it. 2. Barut Degrimene, or the Bath of the Powder-mill. It rises in an open pond near the high way, and mixeth with the fresh Springs, so that the pond is of a whitish colour in one part and clear in the other, as also cold and hot in several parts. This conveyed cross the high way into a Powder-mill, becomes useful in making of Gun-powder. They conceive here, that this Bath communicates with the Sulphureous Springs at Dotis, many miles distant. 3. Cuzzoculige, the little Bath or the Bath of the Saint; for which name the Turks give a superstitious reason. Tis kept by Turkish Monks.The Bath, where the Springs arise, is so hot as scarce to be endured; but being let out into another bathing place at some distance,it becomes tolerable and fit for use. This water hath neither colour, smell, nor taste different from Common water, and deposeth no sediment; onely the sides of the Bath are green, and have a fungous substance all over. 4. Kaplih, a very noble Bath, but part of the buildings was consumed this year (1669) by a great fire which happn'd in Buda; but is by this time repaired by the Turks. The water is very hot, not without a petrifying juyce in it. The Building about is eight square, with a noble Bath in the middle; with a circle of a Trench of water about it for the better ornament. On every side it has a Nichio, wherein is a fountain. In the middle of the Antichamber (where they leave their cloaths) there is also a fair Stone bason and a fountain. 5. The Bath of Velibey; which hath a strong Sulphureous smell, and a K 2 pe(1050) petrifying juyce in it; and is so hot, that to make it tolerable,it requires the addition of cold water. This is the noblest Bath of any. The Anti-chamber very large, the Bath-room capacious, and high-arched, and adorned with 5. Cupola's one a very fair one, over the great round Bath in the middle; and one lesser, over each of the 4 corners; where are either Baths or Bathstoves for more private use: In these the Turks take off the hair of their Bodies by a psilothrum mixt with soap; it being not their custom, to have any hair, except on their beards, and a lock on the crown of their heads. Twelve Pillars support the great Cupola, between 8 whereof are fountains of the hot water, and between the other are places to sit down, where the Barbers and Bath-men attend. And each of these places have 2 cisterns of free-stone, into which are let in hot Bath-water and also cold water, to be mixt and tempered as every one pleaseth. Men bathe in the morning, and Women in the afternoon. When any man intends to bathe, having entred the first rooms, he findes there divers servants attending, and furnishing him with a cloth and apron. Then he puts off his apparel, and having put on the apron, he entreth the 2d room, wherein the great Bath is, and sits on the side of the Bath, or between the Pillars nigh a fountain; where the Barber strongly rubs him with his hand opened, stretching out his armes, and listing them up, after which the party batheth. Then, if he be a subject of the G. Signors, or, it be the custom of his Countrey, he hath his head shaved, and if a young man, his beard, except the upper-lip. Next, the Barber rubs his breast, back, arms and legs, with an hair-cloth, while he either sitteth, or lyeth with his face downward; then washes his head with soap, and after throws cold water upon him all over his Body; and so the party walks about in the steam of the Bath for a time. These Baths are made use of two wayes, either by entring into the water, or sitting about the Bath in the steam. For the vapour of the Bath makes the whole room a stove; and most sweat as long as they stay in it; and some enter not the water at all, but have it powr'd upon them or else only continue in the steam of the Bath; which sufficiently provoketh sweat. So much of the Baths. Upon the side of Mount Calenberg, towards the North are Stones marked with Trees and Leaves. In the Hermitage of the Camaldulenses, seated upon a Peak of this hill, I saw fair ones, with which they pav'd the walk in their Gardens. This place is 2 German miles from Vienna. Not far from Manners-dorf is the Emperor's Quarry of Stone, out of which are made the best Buildings in Vienna: In which, where-soever there is a cleft or separation of one stone from another, the water falling betwixt them, leaves a petrification, thereby,as 'twere,healing the wound, by making a stony callus, not exactly like the parts, which it joins together. An (1051) An English mile from Freistat in Hungary North-ward, is a Quarry of Stone, out of which many great Stones are digged, transparent aud resembling Sugarcandy. At Banca, two Hungar. miles from Freistat North-ward, is a Quarry of white stone, nigh the Hot Baths of that place; over which is a lay of Chalk of about a yard thick, very beautiful to the Eye, as being of all colors, except green; so finely mixt, streaked, and shaded, that it surpasseth Marble-paper; and the water dropping upon it, doth as twere varnish it. At Schemnitz in Hungary, famous for Silver-Mines, is an high perpendicular Rock, part of which, from the top to the bottom, is naturally tinctur'd with a shining fair blew and green: And I have heard from a Spaniard, who liv'd long in the West-Indies, that there is also a rock, like this nigh to the Silver-mines in Peru. The Mountain of Clissura, being a part of Mount Haemus, as also Mount Pyrlipe (both which I passed over travelling from Belgrade towards Larissa in Thessaly) doe shine like Silver, and day and night, either by the light of the Sun or Moon, afford a glittering pleasant shew, caused by the great quantity of Muscovy glass, wherewith these Hills abound. There are also Talcum-rocks nigh Spitall in upper Carinthia, as I have been informed by M. Donellan,who liveth there. I am unwilling to omit an Hill nigh Sarvizza, two dayes journey on this side Larissa, which consists of an earth of a fine red colour, out of which the red Earthen Vessels of that Country are made; as also the great number of Acidulae nigh Transchin in Hungary, there being 32 plentiful springs of them; likewise an Hot Bath nigh Bellacherqua in Bulgaria, it being scituated farr from any habitation, yet well built by the Turks, and very refreshing to Travellours. It hath a red sediment, and maketh a gray stone. Being at Larissa in Thessaly, where the Gr. Segnor hath long resided, I understood, that he had passed a good part of the hot Summer of 1669. upon the neighbouring mount Olympus; and by the Interpreters to the Emperours Resident, the Illustriss~ Signor di Casa nova, (who were obliged to attend the Sultan upon the mountain) I was inform'd that there was a Spring of a whitish water upon that Hill, which was drank of by many persons in their great heat and thirst, contracted by ascending the mountain, but proved very destructive unto them in 3 dayes, they then complaining of an heaviness and coldness of their Stomacks till they dyed. 