Extract of a Letter, Written from Paris, containing an Account of some Effects of the Transfusion of Bloud; and of two Monstrous Births, &c. I was present, when M Gayant shew'd the Transfusion of the Bloud, putting that of a Young Dog into the Veins of an Old, who, two hours after, did leap and frisk; whereas he was almost blind with age, and could hardly stirr before. In the House of M. Bourdelots was shew'd a Monster in form of an Ape, having all over its shoulders, almost to his middle, a mass of flesh, that came from the hinder part of its head, and hung down in form of a little Cloak. The report is, that the Woman that brought it forth, had seen on a Stage an Ape so cloathed: The most remarkable thing was, that the said mass of flesh was divided in four parts, correspondent to the Coat, the Ape did carry. The Woman, upon inquiry, was found to have gone five months with Child, before she had met with the accident of that unhappy sight. Many questions were on this occasion agitated: viz. about the Power of Imagination; and whether (480) whether this Creature was endow'd with a humane Soul; and if not, what became of the Soul of the Embryo, that was five months old. A little after; another Monster was produced, which was an Infant come to maturity, having instead of a Head and Brains, a Mass of flesh like any Liver; and was found to move. And this Faetus occasioned a Question for the Cartesians, how the motion could be performed, and yet the Glandula pinealis, or Conarium be wanting; nor any Nerves visible, which come from the Brain? The marrow in the Spine was of the same substance. It liv'd four days, and then dyed: It was anotomized by M. Emmerez in presence of the Assembly. There came a Letter from Florence, Written by M. Steno, which has also somewhat perplext the followers of Des Cartes. A Tortoise had its head cut off, and yet was found to move its foot three days after. Here was no Communication with the Conarium. As this seems to have given a sore blow to the Cartesian Doctrine, so the Disciples thereof are here endeavouring to heal the Wound. 