An Account Of making a Dog draw his Breath exactly like a Wind-broken Horse, as it was devised and experimented by Dr. Richard Lower; with some of his Instructive Observations thereon. This Experiment was made before the Royal Society, Octob. 17. 1667. after it had been tried by the Author in private some while before. The Account of it in his own words, is as follows. AFter I had often considered the manner and way of Respiratien, and by many Observations been inducted to believe, that the Diaphragme is the chief Organ thereof, I thought there could be no way more probable to try it, than by breaking the Nerves, by which its Motion is perform'd; which may be easily (as it was actually) done after the following manner. First, picrce the side of the Animal between the 6th and 7th Rib in the middle of the Thorax, just over against the Region of the Heart, with a small Incision-knife, passing the Knife but just into the Cavity of the Breast (which you may justly know by finding no resistance to the point of it); then take it out, and put in a Director, or a small Quill made like it, and thrust it in about an inch, directing the end of it toward the Sternum, close to the inside of the Breast. Then cut upon it about an inch on the Intercostal Museles; by which you may be secur'd from touching the Lungs (545) Lungs with the point or edge of your Knife. This done, put in your finger, and with your nail separate the Nerve,which passeth along the side of the Pericardium toward the Diaphragme. Then put in a Probe, a little inverted at the end like a Hook, and apprehend the Nerve, and pull it to the Orifice of the Breast, and cut it off, and sow the hole up very close. Do the same on the other side, and presently let the Dog loose, and you will plainly see him draw his breath exactly like a Wind-broken Horse: Which yet you will see plainer, if you run him a little in a string after he is cut. But that any one may perform this Experiment the easier, let him first take notice, how the Nerves of the Diaphragme pass along on each side of the Pericardium in a dead Animal, before the Trial be attempted in a living one. The most obvious Observations from this Experiment, are, 1. That the whole manner of Respiration is quite alter'd. For as in a sound Animal,in Inspiration the Belly swells by the lifting up the Bowels by the Contraction of the Diaphragme; and in Expiration the Belly falls by the Relaxing of the same: In a Wind-broken Dog or Horse 'tis quite contrary; for in them it is to be seen plainly, that when they draw their breath, their Belly is drawn in very lank and small, and when they breath up, their Belly is relaxt and swells again. 2. It being certain, that the Lungs do not move of themselves at all, but wholly depend upon the Expansion of the Thorax by the Intercostal Muscles, and the Diaphragme; by this Experiment it doth appear, how much the single motion of either of them doth particularly contribute to Respiration. For all Inspiration being made by the Dilatation of the Thorax,and that Dilatation being caused partly by the Intercostal Muscles drawing up the Ribs, and partly at the same time the Diaphragme by its Contraction drawing downward the lower small Ribs to which 'tis joyn'd, and also lifting up the Fiscera of the lower Belly,by which they do jointly make all the space they can for the Air to come in and distend the Lungs: It mast hence necessarily follow that the Intercostal Musoles and the Diaphragme being constituted for two distant Employments(though both to the same end) and neither being able to perform the others Office, where one ceaseth from its work, the other for the exigence of Nature must take more pains to supply (546) supply the others defect: Which is very evident to be seen; for the Diaphragme being made useless by loosing its Nerves, the Intercostal Muscles do dilate the Ribs much more than formerly, even to the utmost distance they can, when there is need for it; as, when you make the Dog run a little after he is cut, or when you gallop a Wind-broken Horse, doth manifestly appear. 3. The manner of Respiration being the same in a Dog, whose Diaphragme Nerves are cut, and in a Wind broken Horse, 'tis more than probable, that the Cause may be as nearly the same, as the Signs are; and that, though there may be other faults found in the Lungs of such Creatures, yet 'tis very likely, they may be induced from the weakness of Respiration, but that they had their occasion from the Relaxation or Rupture of the Nerves of the Diaphragme at first; which will seem more credible, if weremember, that by the straining of the Midriff too much (by which the Nerves may be quite broken or stretcht beyond their proper tone) most commonly that accident happens. 