Some Queries and Answers,relating to an Account given in Numb. 54. by Dr. Edw. Brown, of a strange Lake in Carniola, call'd the Zirchnitz-Sea: The Queries were made by a Curious person in France; the Answers given by the Author of the said Accompt. 1. Q. WHether the Mountains that compass this Lake, except on the South-side, be very high, and whether the Snow keep long upon them? A. This Lake is encompassed with high hills at some little distance, but when I was upon the Lake, I saw no Snow upon them; but upon Mountains in the Country, as I travell'd to and from this Lake, I observ'd Snow in June. Upon Hills on the side of great Lakes the Snow lyes not so long as upon hills more distant. 2. Q. Whether the Holes and Openings, by which these Waters run out, are in stones, or in the loose Earth? A. Generally they are stony, not in soft or loose Earth; yet in one or two places the Earth hath been known to sink and fall in, particularly near a Village call'd Sea-dorf. 3. Q. (195) 3. Q. Whether these Holes be the same every year, and whether no New ones are made? A. The great Holes are the same every year; but possibly part of the water may sometimes find or make new passages through the crevices and cribrous parts of the Field. 4. Q. Whether they have not searched into these Holes, and do not see the water at the bottom of these holes, or in wells, at the time when this Lake is discharged of the greatest part of its water? A. They have searched into these holes, and when the water goeth first away, they see it in them for a while, but afterwards it descends lower out of their fight. 5. Q. Whether, when the water is descended in June into those Holes, there remains none of it in this Lake in places above those holes? A. There remains at that time no water, at least not any that is considerable for any time in places more elevated than those holes, most of it draining away towards the holes in the Valleys; the rest is either imbibed by the Earth, or, if any remain in the hilly or rocky part, it is evaporated. 6. Q. Whether there be not thereabout some River, or Snow, or Ice, that may furnish this Lake with the water that returns into it in September? A. The snow falls not till after the Lake is return'd. There are divers considerable Rivers in the Countries about this Lake; but these furnish not this Lake, but run a contrary way. And I could not learn, whether these Rivers did increase or decrease upon the descent or return of the water of this Lake. 7. Q. How those that take the Fish at the return of the water, can remain at the place of the holes, when the water comes to rise high and with force? A. I affirm, not that they take the Fish when the water ascends, but when it descends. For, besides that the water spreads speedily, the Prince of Eckenberg, who is Lord of this Lake and the parts about it, will not permit them at that time to make any such attempt, expecting to have the Lake replenisht again with the Fish without diminishing them. 8. Q. Of what bigness are those Holes, and whether the openings of them are perpendicular, or side wayes? A. The Holes are of different largeness and figure; some perpendicular at the beginning, and then oblique; others obliqueat first; scarce two exactly alike. Such holes I have seen in other parts of Carniola, and in other Countries also. We have a Hole call'd Elden-hole, not made by art, but naturally in the mountain, in the Peak-country of Darbyshire, above 80 fathoms deep. 9. Q. How much the water ascends in September, and in what C c 2 space (196) space of time? A. The water ascends so plentifully, that it fills the Lake in a short time, especially the Valleys; and the hole in as short a space, as a Field of about two leagues long and one broad can well be filled; but I cannot determin it to a day: For, some years the water ariseth so plentifully, that it fills all about Niderdorf, and almost to Zirchnitz. 10. Q. Whether the water returning is turbid or clear? A. The water that spouts seems somewhat clear in the Air, but being spread about, looks as formerly in the Lake. 11. Q. Whether the water being all return'd in September remains until the month of June following at one and the same hight? A. The water is not alwayes at the same highth, but somewhat differing according unto rains, snows, or drought; and they are sensible of its highth by the tops of the hills in it and and its spreading towards Zirchnitz; but it alters not very much till it begins to go away. 12. Q. Whether no River enters this Lake; and whether it have no other way of discharge but by these subterraneous Openings? A. No River enters it, but only inconsiderable Rivolets on the South and East-side; nor hath it any other discharge known, but by the holes. 13. Q. Whether the Scituation of this Lake in Respect of the neighbouring Country be not very high? A. The Country is high about the Lake, but the Lake is not high in respect of the Country near it, but low. Travelling from this Lake towards Idria, a place noted for Quicksilver-mines, I found the country mountanous; there are Mountains between it and Istria, and between it and the Sea; there are Mountains in Dalmatia, and also towards Croatia, and upon divers Mountains in other Countries there are waters replenisht with fish, as upon mount Cenis. 14. Q. Whether there be not some neighbouring Hills, the last Ice of which melting in June, may open a passage to the water of this Lake, and which beginning again to freeze in September, may stop again the passage, and force the water to return into this Lake? A. I did not hear of any Mountain near it, the Ice of which melting might open a passage to the water of this Lake; but probably this Lake may hold dependance of, and communication with some subterraneous great Lake or Magazin of water belonging to these Hilly regions, which when full, and running over may vent itself with force and plenty into this field, and when scant of water, absorbe and drink-in the same again; the water of the Lake returning but from whence it came, having no River running out of it, whereby to be discharged. 15. Q. (197) 15. Q. Whether this Lake frezeth, and whether it hath many fountains on its banks or comming from near hills? A. It freezeth in the Winter like other Lakes: So the Fishes of this Lake have a closer habitation than those in others; for they are under the Ice a part of the Winter, and under the Earth a part of the Summer. 16. Q. What changes the Fishermen find on that stone they call the Fisher-stone, thereby to conjecture the time when the water is to run away? A. That which they call the Fisher-stone, is a large stone upon one of the Hills or elevated parts of the Field, which whensoever it appears above water, the Fishermen, being upon the Lake, take notice of it, and know thereby, that in a few dayes the water will retire under ground. For, after the filling of the Lake in September, the water never decreaseth so low again, as to let the Fisher-stone appear till it begins to retire under ground. 