B O O K S Printed for and Sold by Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, (Printers to the Royal Society) at the Princes Arms in St Paul's Church-yard. THe Posthumous Works of Robert Hooke, M. D. S. R. S. Geom. Prof. Gresh. &c. Containing his Cutlerian Lectures and other Discourses, read at the Meetings of the Illustrious Royal Society. In which, 1. The present Deficiency of Natural Philosophy is discoursed of, with the Methods of rendring it more certain and beneficial. 2. The Nature, Motion and Effects of Light are treated of, particularly that of the Sun and ~mets. 3. An Hypothetical Explication of Memory; how the Organs made use of by the Mind in its Operation may be Mechanically understood. 4. An Hypothesis and Explication of the cause of Gravity, or Gravitation, Magnetism, &c. 5. Discources of Earthquakes, their Causes and Effects,and Histories of several, to which are annext, Physical Explications of several of the Fables in Ovid's ~, very different from other Mythologick Interpreters. 6. Lectures for improving Navigation and Astronomy with the Descriptions of several new and useful Instruments and Con~; the whole full of curious Disquisitions and Experiments. Il~ lustrated with Sculptures. To these Discourses is prefixt the Author's Life, giving an Account of his Studies and Employments, with an Enumeration of the many Experiments, Instruments, Contrivances and Inventions by him made and produced as Curator of Experiments to the Royal Society. Published by Richard Waller, R. S. Secr. ~ T X P O ~ O T ~ I' A: Or, The History of Cold Bathing, both Antient and Modern. In 2 Parts. The first written by Sir John Floyer, of ~, Kt. The second Treating of the Genuine Use of Hot and Cold Baths, together with the wonderful Effects of the Bath-Water, drank hot from the Pump, in decay'd Stomachs, and in most Diseases of the Bowels, Liver, Spleen, &c. Also proving, that the best Cures done by the Cold Baths, are lately observed to arise from the Temperate Use of the Hot Baths first. By Dr Edward Baynard, Fellow of the College of Physicians, Lond n. The second Edition, with large Additions, and a Copious Index. 