[106] VII. Considerations on the Convenience of measuring an Arch of the Meridian, and of the Parallel of Longitude, having the Observatory of Geneva for their common Intersection. By Mark Augustus Pictet, <inferred>Professor</inferred> of Philosophy in the Academy of Geneva; in a Letter to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. P. R. S. Read February 24, 1791. S I R, THE accurate knowledge of the dimensions and true figure of the earth is not a matter of mere curiosity. Astronomy and navigation are so closely connected with it, that the philosophers of the present century have pursued this enquiry through the most discouraging difficulties; and governments themselves have contributed considerable sums towards its success. We know that, notwithstanding these efforts, the end is not yet obtained. There are five different conclusions on this subject; one of which is given by SIR ISAAC NEWTON'S theory; the others are the result of four different measurements, which appear the most creditable among those that have been performed. The extremes give 1/132 and 1/304 for the difference between the polar and equatorial diameters of the earth, that is, two fractions, one of which is more than double the other. The cause of these disagreements is yet unknown; perhaps the figure of the earth is really irregular; perhaps the several measureMr. PICTET'S Considerations, &c. 107 measurements have not been executed with the very minute exactness requisite in so nice and so important an undertaking. The liberal and well-conducted operations carried on by the Royal Society, under the direction of the late General ROY, for the trigonometrical determination of the distance between the Observations of Greenwich and Paris, render this last supposition extremely probable. It now seems evident, that the substances employed before for the actual measurement of the bases must have been influenced in their length by pyrometrical and hygrometrical effects, which were either unknown or ill-estimated at that time. The instruments also for observing the celestial and terrestrial angles were far from the perfection to which they have since been brought. In a word, the whole of the work should be again undertaken with the far greater degree of accuracy which is now within our reach. Struck with the importance of these facts, I take the liberty of transmitting to you, Sir, for the consideration of the Royal Society, the present plan for measuring, by a commission of its Members, an arch of the meridian, and of a parallel of longitude, having the Observatory of Geneva for their common point of intersection. Frequent excursions in our neighbouring mountains have convinced me, not only that the measurement could be made, but that it would be perhaps the most easily executed of any hitherto attempted. The rough sketch, with its explanation, joined to the present Paper, will give some account of the particulars which I have been able to collect relative thereto. At present I shall only lay before the Society a general survey of the undertaking. The best <inferred>maps</inferred> place the town of St. Jean de Maurienne nearly south of Geneva, at the distance of about 58 minutes of latitude. It would be impossible to extend the measurement P 2 farther 108 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the farther southwards, the central and inaccessible chain of the Alps being in the way; but if a greater arch should be desired, it might be easily protracted about 26 minutes north of Geneva. I lately made an excursion to St. Jean de Maurienne, to examine whether the position of the town would be convenient in other respects; and if, in particular, the lateral attraction of some neighbouring mountain was not to be feared. It appeared to me, that the place being surrounded by mountains of nearly equal masses, and situated at almost equal distances, their effects would be hardly perceptible; and, supposing there should remain any doubt about their influence, this influence might be easily ascertained by zenith distances, observed at the two extremities of a little plain in which the town is built, and compared with the real distance of the stations, determined by an actual measurement. That town being the residence of a bishop, and containing near 3000 inhabitants, might furnish the observers with a convenient building for the zenith sector, and the occasional help and necessaries which might be required. The great post-road from hence into Italy, over Mount Cenis, passing through it, is also an advantageous circumstance. The disposition and bearing of the vallies from that town, which would be the southernmost extremity of the arch, is advantageous for the series of triangles: for I have seen from the top of a mountain near St. Jean, called Le Mont Sapey, two parallel chains extending to the north on both sides of the river Arc, and there appeared to be in their summits a great choice for convenient stations, as far as the confluence of the Arc and the river Isere near Aiguebelle, from whence the mountains in the parallel of Chamberi are all visible. From this last parallel to Geneva, and farther, there are not only no difficulties, but the stations are for the greatest part already determined. Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 109 mined. The mountains and lines drawn in black, on the map subjoined (Tab.II.), shew the stations and triangles already observed; those in red * are only presumed, but their places will probably differ little in reality from those which are there indicated. The map, as to the situation of mountains, has no pretensions but to such an exactness as may result from angles observed with a HADLEY'S sextant, without a reduction to the horizon; but the situation and figure of our lake is exactly true, being the result of a minute and accurate survey taken by the late Professor MALLET and myself. The visible part of the meridian of Geneva is soon terminated northwards by the first chain of Mount Jura; but the country opens to the N.N.E. and the northern station might be easily chosen in some place of the Pays de Vaud, visible from the Observatory of Geneva, and which could be determined by only one additional triangle. I take the liberty to point out two such places. The one, called Vincy, about 16 minutes north of Geneva, and where the circumstance of my possessing a country house would facilitate the dispositions necessary for the astronomical observations. The other place is the top of a mountain, called the Dent de Vaulion, making part of the chain of Mount Jura, and where an occasional observatory might be erected without much difficulty: it is 10 minutes north of Vincy, or 26' of Geneva. The whole arch from St. Jean de Maurienne to this last place would be about 1 degree 24 minutes. The celestial observations might perhaps be made in the four places above mentioned; and the meridian arch would be thus obtained in three portions, whose comparison with the terrestrial sections, measured geometrically, would be a proof of the accuracy of the operation. * In the engraving of this map, dotted lines are employed, to express whatever was drawn with red in the original. It 110 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the It is observable, on the inspection of the map, that the chain of triangles lies mostly on the west side of the meridian line. I was forced to dispose it thus, to be within reach of the only place where a convenient basis could be found, viz. the marshes of Choutagne. I have seen this place, and am well assured, that the measurement in a convenient season would be attended with no difficulty. The disposition and proportion of the basis of about 29,000 feet traced on the map, are the result of operations I have made on the spot. The southern part of the meridian line, visible from the Observatory of Geneva, passes over the summit of a mountain called Mount Saleve, where we have a meridian mark, at the distance of about 5600 toises, and at the height of about 500 toises above the level of the lake. I have observed from that summit, that the same line protracted southwards is not intercepted by the mountains but at a great distance, and in a place which, as far as I could judge, must be near the southern end of the arch. I am ignorant if that place is accessible; but if it should happen to be so, it would be a fortunate circumstance, inasmuch as it would offer a very simple, quick, and accurate verification of the direction of the meridian line resulting from the chain of triangles, by actually protracting the visual line given immediately by the transit instrument of the Observatory down to the end of the arch, by the help of two intermediate stations only. I do not believe that such a verification has ever yet been practised. We see hitherto no local difficulties in the measurement of an arch of about 84 minutes of the meridian of Geneva. The measurement of the parallel of longitude, eastwards of the same place, seems to be of a still easier execution, insomuch that I I believe Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 111 believe there are few place on earth better disposed for the operation. The Republic of Vallais in Switzerland offers an extensive, broad, and nearly straight valley, bordered on both sides by high mountains. It is situated about the parallel of Geneva, runs eastward for many leagues from the town of Martigny, and to the westward is separated from the mountains of Chablais in Savoy, by a very lofty chain, in which there is an accessible summit, called The Glacier de Buet, or La Mortine. This mountain is placed, as by a miracle, in such a position as to be visible from the Observatory of Geneva, and about 10 minutes west of it, as also from almost every elevated situation in the Haut Vallais. Its summit is accessible by a much easier ascent than that which was discovered by Mess. DE LUC; and a signal made there by the Indian lights would be visible east and west along the parallel, to the whole distance of perhaps two degrees between the two extreme stations; for as the observations relative to the regulating of the clocks do not require any considerable apparatus, they could be performed in the most distant hamlets from which the signal should be visible. As to the trigonometrical measurement along the parallel, one may conclude, from the triangles delineated on the map, that it might be executed with a smaller number of operations than that of the meridian arch. I was assisted in the designation of the probable stations in the Vallais by my ingenious friend Mr. WILD, Director of the Salt Works and Mines of the Republic of Bern, and residing at Bex; from whence, by frequent excursions, he has acquired a sufficient knowledge of the names and positions of the neighbouring mountains to enable me to complete the sketch in the eastern part of the parallel. Should 112 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the Should the method, proposed by the late General Roy *, for ascertaining the length of the parallel independently of astronomical observations, be adopted, it might be carried into execution with no great difficulty from the summit of the same mountain, where we just now supposed the signal by the Indian lights to be placed. The triangles relative to the measurement of the parallel make but one suite with those of the meridian, and there are four very convenient places along the same parallel for measuring bases of verification. They are perfectly level plains, forming the bottom of the valley through which the Rhone flows between the towns of Aigle and Villeneuve, and between Martigny and Sion. Their relative situations are roughly indicated in the map. The above general considerations, together with the particulars which are subjoined to the sketch, seem to ascertain the full practicability of the enterprize. May I be allowed to add a few reflections on its conveniency? The re-union of the two measurements (of latitude and longitude) in the same spot, is an advantageous circumstance; and the more so, if we consider that this spot lies between the 45 and 46th degree, that is, in the mean latitude between the pole and equator, near which latitude the mean radius of the earth takes place in the well-founded supposition of its being a spheroid. This radius, found by the most accurate measurement hitherto attempted, would become a standard, and to which the results of the equatorial and northern measurements being compared, the true figure of the earth would be the better ascertained. The position or relative longitude of the meridian of Geneva iswell determined by a great number of observed immersions * Phil. Trans. 1787, p. 216. et seq. 5 and Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 113 and emersions of the satellites of Jupiter, and by some occultations of stars by the moon. These observations were performed by the late Professor J. A. MALLET, Mr. J. TREMBLEY, and myself. The greater part of them are already calculated, and their mean result must be near the truth. The latitude of the same place would be ascertained by the celestial observations essential to the measurement, and would verify our determination taken from the observed culmination of zenith stars. Lastly, the height of Geneva above the level of the Mediterranean Sea (which is supposed to be about 196 toises) can be obtained with a sufficient precision from the barometrical observations which for several years past have been regularly made here. The Observatory of Geneva, in which, since the death of my late friend Professor MALLET, I have continued a series of observations, would be at the free disposition of the Commissioners whom the Royal Society should think proper to entrust with the whole work. It is furnished with the following instruments, and consequently there would be no occasion for sending those of the same sort from England. 1o, A very good transit instrument of 5 feet, made by SISSON. The telescope is achromatic, magnifying about 70 times. 2o, A quadrant of 2 1/2 feet radius with two achromatic telescopes and a micrometer screw. The quadrant is moveable on an azimuthal circle. The whole made by the same artist. 3o, Two astronomical clocks, with gridiron pendulums. One remarkably good, made by the late SHELTON; the other by LE PAUTE. This last might be carried to any of the stations. 4o, An achromatic telescope of 10 feet, made by DOLLOND, with three magnifying powers. VOL. LXXXI. Q 5o, 114 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the 5o, A 3 1/2 feet achromatic, with great aperture, and four magnifying powers, made also by DOLLOND, mounted on a parallactic stand, and carrying occasionally an ocular micrometer*. 6o, A very good RAMSDEN'S 30-inches achromatic refractor with four powers; besides some other telescopes and instruments of less importance. The capital instruments which, I suppose, it would be necessary to send from England, would be one or two zenith sectors, one or two clocks, and the instrument for observing the terrestrial angles, the accuracy of which is of the utmost importance. I saw in London, three years ago, that made by Mr. RAMSDEN, and employed so successfully in the late measurements from Hounslow Heath to the French Coast. It is a matter of doubt to me, whether this precious instrument would be allowed to go out of the kingdom; and even should that be permitted, as far as I can judge from the impression it has left on my memory, it would be too heavy and of too large a bulk to be conveniently carried to the top of mountains. The instrument ought perhaps to be made of separable parts easily put together, and capable of being steadily adjusted: they might be packed separately in a box, not exceeding the common charge of a man. The boxes could be so contrived as to fill a larger one, suspended on springs in a small narrow carriage made on purpose, and in which all the necessary things besides could be collected. Such a disposition would be very convenient, not only for sending the instruments safe from England, but also to carry them from one station to another through cross country roads, with more quickness and less * We are indebted for the possession of that valuable instrument to the munificence of my learned friend M. DE SAUSSURE, who gave it to M. TREMBLEY, to whom it now belongs. 2 trouble Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 115 trouble and danger. A convenient tent, to shelter the instruments in the stations, should be added, or might be made at Geneva. The glass rods for the measurement of the basis could be drawn of any convenient shape, in a glass-house not far distant from Geneva. The thermometers, and any additions or repairs the apparatus might require, would be duly performed by Mess. PAUL, eminent artists of this town; and we abound with artists of inferior merit. Thus fair, Sir, I foresee no capital obstacles to the execution of the plan I have the honour of laying before the Royal Society. All the data seem in favour of it; and I may add, as another favourable circumstance, that the star Capella of the first magnitude culminates between the zeniths of Geneva and St. Jean Maurienne, and consequently might be observed simultaneously from both stations at any hour in which the season of the year would bring its meridian transit. I shall conclude this Paper with a few more reflections on the undertaking in general. Supposing it to be the intention of the Royal Society to attempt the investigation of the true figure of the earth, by measurements executed in different parts of the globe; this first operation, performed in a foreign country, might be looked upon as a kind of previous trial for the observers, a sort of initiation, in which some difficulties, owing to the nature of the soil, but no true hardships, would be encountered. The whole of the work, except perhaps one single station, would be carried on in the King of Sardinia's dominions, and in some of the Republics of Switzerland; countries, where no moral nor political obstacles would be started, and where the inhabitants, far from being troublesome, would afford every assistance and Q 2 comfort 116 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the comfort in their power. I may add, that none of the mountains on which I have observed, and which are pointed out in the map as likely stations, present any danger. If a survey of that kind, executed in a mountainous country, is liable to some difficulties, it offers, on the other hand, advantages which perhaps more than overbalance those difficulties. First, the visual rays being less interrupted, the triangles become larger, and the stations fewer in number; whence the labour of the observers, and the chances of error, are by so much diminished. Secondly, These same visual rays proceeding through strata of air less dense and more free from the vapours which commonly thicken the lower parts of the atmosphere, the danger or irregular refractions is by so much less, and the signals may be more distinctly perceived from great distances. Besides those advantages which chiefly concern the measurement itself, the country would offer facilities for other natural enquiries, not unworthy the attention of philosophical men, and which might easily be united with the capital object of these labours, with which object some of these enquiries are intimately united. I range among them, The accurate determination of the length of the simple pendulum, which beats seconds in this mean latitude. Experiments to be made on the oscillations at different heights, with an invariable pendulum. Experiments on the lateral attraction of mountains repeated and varied. Observations on meteors, and several atmospherical phaenomena relative to refractions, to heat, to hygrometry, to electricity, &c. But, Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 117 But, above all, the improvement of barometrical measurements would mostly deserve the attention of the Commissioners. Nothing, as it seems, is now wanting in the theory of the operation; and it is only from a number of actual observations, made at different heights, and with every due precaution, compared with geometrical measurement, that the co-efficient (either constant or variable) to be applied as a correction for the atmospherical heat, will be obtained. That research must be merely empirical; the effect sought for being the result of many complicated causes, some of which are yet unknown. The real height of every station being well determined, the time to be spent there for other purposes would allow a number of barometrical observations in varied circumstances; and from these observations, rightly compared between themselves, interesting and useful results may justly be expected. I have the honour to be, &c. MARK AUGUSTE PICTET. Geneva, Oct. 30, 1790. Eclaircissemens 118 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the Eclaircissemens sur la Carte, qui accompagne le Projet de Mesure presente a la Societe Royale, par M. A. Pictet. (See Tab. II.) D A N S l'esquisse de la suite de triangles a laquelle le present developpement se rapporte, les montagnes ou les lignes tracees en rouge representent des positions tirees des cartes, ou d'une inspection generale de la direction des montagnes et des vallees *. Ce qui est dessine en noir indique les positions determinees par des angles et des mesures reellement prises; mais sans pretendre cependant a plus de precision que la nature de la chose ne l'exigeoit. Enfin ce qui est trace legerement en couleur noire montre seulement qu'il existe des montagnes la ou elles sont ainsi indiquees. Les deux lignes rouges qui se coupent a angles droits dans la carte representent le meridien et le parallele de l'Observatoire de Geneve dans l'etendue de la mesure proposee; c'est-a-dire environ 1o 24' pour le meridien, et environ 2o, pour le parallele de longitude. Le seul endroit dans lequel j'aye pu trouver un emplacement convenable pour une base relative a la mesure de l'arc du meridien, est situe a l'ouest de cet arc, et a-peu-pres vis-a-vis du milieu de sa longueur; ce sont les marais de Choutagne. Ils offrent une plaine qui s'etend du nord au sud dans une espace d'environ 2 lieues; elle est bornee a l'ouest par le Rhone, et a l'est par une montagne tres voisine nommee la montagne de * See Note, page 109. ChouConvenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 119 Choutagne, qui se prolonge au nord et au sud beaucoup plus loin que la plaine elle meme. Le sol de cette plaine est si parfaitement horizontal qu'il paroit n'offrir d'autre elevation que celle qui resulte de la courbure de la terre et d'une route qu'on a pratiquee au travers de cette meme plaine de l'est a l'ouest. La ligne a b represente une base d'environ 25000 pieds Anglois de longueur, tracee dans cette plaine, et la ligne b ~ une autre base prise dans la meme plaine, et dont je parlerai tout a l'heure. Le sol du marais est ferme le long de ces deux lignes, et en s'aidant de quelques ponts dans les endroits ou ils seroient necessaires, la mesure ne souffriroit aucune difficulte. Une grande partie de la plaine est en prairie pendant l'ete; il n'y a que tres peu d'eau dans le reste; je l'ai trouve encore tres praticable au milieu d'Octobre dernier, tems ou j'y ai fait les operations relatives a la presente esquisse. Les deux extremites a et b de la base sont marquees par deux batimens qui seroient utiles dans le voisinage des deux stations: l'un est une petite ferme au point a, nommee Chez Thevenet, et l'autre une Briqueterie a l'extremite b. Ces deux points sont visibles l'un de l'autre, et je remarque en passant que les instrumens pourroient arriver par eau depuis l'Angleterre jusques a la station b, par la voye de Marseille et du Rhone. J'ajouterai que tout le cote oriental de la base, le long du pied de la montagne, est tres peuple; c'est un vignoble considerable, et l'on auroit tout-a-fait a-portee le logement et tous les secours necessaires au travail de la mesure; et quoique la plaine soit marecageuse, le vignoble que la borde passe pour tres sain. Il n'etoit pas facile de trouver sur le sommet de la montagne Choutagne deux stations qui reunissent les conditions necessaires; savoir 1mo, D'etre visibles des deux extremites de la base qui sont 120 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the sont abaissees de 8 a 10 degres sous l'horison. 2do, D'etre visibles l'une de l'autre. 3tio, D'etre placees de maniere qu'on put decouvrir les sommites a l'est du cote oppose a la base. 4to enfin, D'etre assez distantes entre elles pour fournir un cote convenable au premier triangle de la chaine. Les points marques c et d sont les seuls, a ce que je crois, qui reunissent ces conditions. J'ai meme quelque doute que la montagne de la Caille soit visible du point c sans elever l'instrument de quelques pieds. On voit que la distance c d de ces deux points est un peu moindre que la longueur de la base, et l'on trouvera sans doute que l'angle que cette ligne soustend sur la montagne de la Caille est trop petit; il n'est effectivement que de 17 degres, et sous cette obliquite et a cette distance une erreur de 5'' en c ou en d allongeroit le cote oppose de pieds. Cette consideration pourroit etre jugee suffisante pour engager les commissaires a preferer a la station c une station e que j'indique sur le sommet septentrional du mont Colombier, quoique ce point soit situe sur le territoire Francois. La base est placee tres convenablement pour determiner ce point, et si l'on abandonnoit ainsi la station c, cette meme base pourroit etre prolongee du cote du nord d'environ 3 a 4000 pieds; en rapprochant un peu vers l'est son extremite septentrionale, en lui donnant la direction b ~; elle seroit alors encore plus favorablement disposee pour determiner la station e, d'ou, jusques a la station d, tres bien determinee par la meme base sur la montagne de Choutagne, la distance seroit d'environ 7500 toises, et l'angle oppose en f sur la montagne de la Caille d'environ 34 degres, c'est-a-dire double du precedent. Cette disposition du premier triangle de la chaine seroit sans contredit plus avantageuse que la precedente. 3 Le Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 121 Le mont Colombier est eleve d'environ 650 toises * audessus du niveau de la plaine; les points c et d sur la montagne de Choutagne sont eleves d'environ 380 toises, et la montagne de la Caille d'environ 200 toises seulement; c'est la plus basse de toutes celles qui servent a des stations; mais comme elle est tout-a-fait isolee, elle est visible de tous les cotes a une distance suffisante. Depuis les points f et d on determine la station g sur la Tournette; et ces trois points forment le triangle central d'ou l'on procede ensuite au nord et au sud dans la direction de la meridienne. La Tournette est une montagne elevee d'environ 1000 toises au-dessus du Lac de Geneve; elle est isolee, et offre un des points de vue les plus frappans et les plus etendus qu'on puisse trouver dans ces regions. On appercoit tres bien depuis ce sommet non seulement les deux extremites de l'arc du meridien, mais encore presque toutes les stations, excepte celles qui sont dans le Vallais au-dela du glacier de Buet ou de la Mortine. Le sommet de la montagne d'ou j'ai observe mes angles n'est pas du plus facile acces; mais j'ai remarque a environ 150 toises plus bas un endroit tres accessible, nomme le Plan du Rivray, qui seroit convenable pour la station. L'inspection de la carte montre combien cette station est importante, puisqu'elle n'offre pas moins de sept points a observer. En partant du triangle central dfg pour aller au midi, on determine par les stations d et g la station h sur la Dent de Nivolet. Cette montagne est tres voisine de Chambery, capitale * Les hauteurs de la plupart des stations ne sont indiquees qu'a-peu-pres, et pour donner une idee des directions respectives des rayons visuels relativement a l'horison, et de la necessite d'avoir un instrument dont le mouvement dans les plans verticaux soit de la plus extreme precision. VOL. LXXXI. R de 122 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the de la Savoye; et quoique fort escarpee a l'ouest, elle est, m'at-on dit, d'un facile acces du cote de l'est. Il existe vers le bord occidental du Lac du Bourget une montagne appellee la Dent du Chat, sur laquelle je suis monte, et dont j'ai determine la position au moyen d'une base qui est designee sur la carte. Cette montagne est elevee d'environ 650 toises au-dessus du Lac du Bourget, et accessible, quoiqu'avec quelque difficulte; elle offriroit une station subsidiaire, dans le cas ou celle sur la Dent de Nivolet seroit impraticable, ce qui n'est cependant nullement probable. La position de cette derniere seroit d'ailleurs infiniment meilleure relativement a la suite de la chaine. Avec les stations g et h on determine le point i sur une montagne que j'ai vue depuis la Tournette, qui m'a paru tres accessible, et qui termine ~ chaine qui accompagne la rive droite de la riviere d'Arc depuis St. Jean de Maurienne. J'ignore le nom de cette montagne, et c'est ici que commence la partie de ma carte qui n'offre que des probabilites. Des stations h et i on determine le point k, ou les cartes indiquent une montagne qu'elles nomment Coceiron. Cette montagne, formant l'extremite d'une chaine entre deux vallees dans la direction des deux stations i et h, doit etre visible depuis l'une et l'autre. C'est aux environs de cet endroit que j'ai lieu de presumer que la meridienne de l'Observatoire de Geneve, prolongee au sud depuis le sommet de la montagne de Saleve, vient passer, sans etre interceptee dans l'intervalle par aucune des montagnes qui s'y rencontrent. Avec les stations i et k on determine la station l sur la chaine qui separe la Maurienne de la Tarentaise, et dans laquelle j'ai <inferred>vu</inferred> plusieurs sommites accessibles: et ensin avec les stations k et Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 123 k et l on determine la station m sur le mont Sapey, ou j'ai ete, et d'ou j'ai vu la direction generale des chaines telle qu'elle est indiquee sur la carte; et en particulier que le rayon visuel m k est parfaitement libre. Du mont Sapey et du point l, choisi convenablement, on determine finalement St. Jean de Maurienne. J'ai observe en montant le Sapey une tres haute montagne inaccessible, situee au midi de St. Jean de Maurienne, et dont le sommet offre trois aiguilles contigues de la forme que j'ai dessinee sur la carte, et qui m'ont paru faciles a reconnoitre de loin. Ces aiguilles, que j'ai tres bien retrouvees ensuite depuis la Tournette, se nomment, a ce qu'on m'a dit, les Aiguilles d'Arve; et elles m'ont servi a determiner a-peu-pres la position de la ville de St. Jean relativement a la meridienne de Geneve; du moins a m'assurer qu'elle ne s'ecarte pas beaucoup de cette meridienne. Je ne repeterai pas ici ce que j'ai dit dans le Memoire sur la convenance que je vois a la choisir pour terme meridional de l'arc a mesurer. Je reprends le triangle central dfg pour marcher de-la vers le nord de la chaine des triangles. Les stations f et g determinent la station o sur le Pithon de Saleve. C'est un rocher isole et du plus facile acces, qui domine la montagne; il est eleve d'environ 512 toises au-dessus du Lac de Geneve, et parfaitement visible depuis l'Observatoire de cette ville. Avec les stations g et o on obtient la station p sur le Mole. Cette montagne est elevee d'environ 750 toises au-dessus du Lac de Geneve; elle est de forme conique, parfaitement isolee, d'un facile acces, et offre une des plus belles stations de toute la mesure; elle presente d'autres avantages pour des experiences sur R 2 l'attrac124 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the l'attraction laterale, pour des observations barometriques et meteorologiques; en un mot, elle merite toute l'attention des observateurs, auxquels elle offrira d'ailleurs une station aussi importante que celle de la Tournette. Avec les stations o et p sur le Pithon et sur le Mole, on arrive a l'Observatoire de Geneve, sur lequel j'ai donne dans le Memoire des details qui me paroissent suffisans; je le designe par la lettre q. Avec les stations o et q on determine un point quelconque r, accessible et habitable dans la chaine du Mont Jura, aux environs du parallele de l'Observatoire de Geneve, et qui forme le terme occidental de la mesure; on a cet egard beaucoup de choix; le glacier de Buet, sur lequel se fera le signal, est visible de tous les points du Jura pres du parallele de Geneve. On trouve des habitations jusques vers le sommet de cette derniere montagne, et on choisira la plus convenable pour y etablir l'observateur et sa pendule. La ligne q p, menee de l'Observatoire au Mole, sert de base au triangle qps, dont le sommet s est a Vincy, village du Pays de Vaud, visible de l'Observatoire de Geneve, et dans lequel j'ai une maison de campagne, que j'ai offerte dans mon Memoire pour y faire les observations astronomiques dans le cas ou l'on jugeroit a-propos d'etendre jusques la l'arc du meridien. Cet endroit est eleve d'environ 80 toises au-dessus du Lac, et seroit commode pour les observateurs. Ce triangle qps qui appartient a la meridienne, est aussi le premier de la suite destinee a determiner la longueur du parallele a l'est. La ligne p s, menee du Mole a Vincy, et les stations p et s, determinent l'une ou l'autre des Montagnes du Chablais appellees la Dent d'Oche et la Cornette. Elles sont voisines l'une Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 125 l'une de l'autre, et je les designe toutes deux, parce que la Dent d'Oche sur laquelle je suis monte est d'un affez difficile acces; la Cornette sur laquelle je n'ai point ete est, dit-on, tres facile a monter, et a de plus l'avantage d'etre un peu plus haute que la Dent d'Oche (qui est cependant elevee de 940 toises au dessus du lac), et un peu plus a l'est du cote des montagnes du Vallais. Je prefererois dono la station de la Cornette telle que je l'ai indiquee. La ligne t p de la Cornette au Mole sert de base au triangle ptv, dont le sommet est a la Dent de Vaulion, montagne dans la chaine de Jura, jusqu'ou je propose d'etendre encore, si l'on veut, l'arc du meridien. Cette meme ligne tp sert de base a un triangle ptu, dont le sommet u est au glacier de Buet, qui sera a la fois une station pour mesurer des angles, et le lieu du signal pour les observations relatives a la mesure astronomique de l'arc du parallele. Cette montagne, elevee d'environ 1300 toises au-dessus du Lac de Geneve, est couverte d'une couche de neige permanente; mais cela n'empecheroit pas qu'on ne put y faire commodement les observations dans les mois d'Aout ou de Septembre. On peut batir une petite cabane pour le sejour necessaire, sur des rochers d'ardoise qui sont voisins de la sommite. La montagne n'est pas d'un acces difficile par la route que M. EXCHAQUET a le premier indiquee, et que j'ai suivie a mon dernier voyage a cette montagne; et lors meme qu'il resteroit quelques difficultes a vaincre, cette station est si belle et si importante, qu'on ne manqueroit pas de motifs et de courage pour les surmonter. On remarquera qu'il se forme ainsi autour du Mole un exagone irregulier, ce qui fournit l'occasion d'une verifica2 tion; 126 Mr. PICTET'S Considerations on the tion; et qu'entre autres, la ligne p u peut etre determinee de deux manieres; savoir, immediatement par le triangle pgu, et en faisaint le circuit que nous venous de faire par les stations goqst. Ici commence la partie de ma carte que je dois a la complaisance de mon ami M. WILD. Il me previent que les positions qu'il m'a designees ne sont pas exactes; mais il ne s'agissoit que d'etablir la direction generale du haut et bas Vallais, de marquer les principales montagnes accessibles, et les endroits ou l'on pourroit mesurer des bases de verification. La carte du Vallais qu'il m'a envoyee, et dont la mienne offre l'extrait, m'a paru atteindre ce but. Il est evident que le triangle qui a pour base la distance de la Dent de Morcles a la Catogne, et qui se termine au Rothorn, non loin de la source du Rhone, auroit l'angle du sommet beaucoup trop aigu; mais il n'est pas douteux aussi que dans une vallee large et presque droite, comme l'est celle du haut Vallais, on peut former facilement une suite de triangles par des stations alternatives sur les sommets accessibles des deux cotes de la vallee, et arriver a l'extremite par un petit nombre de ces triangles. Les lignes droites, tracees en rouge dans cette partie de la carte, designent les bases praticables; ces bases sont au nombre de quatre, mais aucune d'elles n'egale en longueur celle que j'ai trouvee dans les plaines de Choutagne. Si le projet dont je viens de developper l'esquisse, est agree par la Societe Royale, mon premier soin, des que la saison le permettra, sera de parcourir le haut Vallais pour decouvrir le dernier sommet accessible du cote de l'est, d'ou la Mortine ou le glacier de Buet soit visible. Ce point une fois trouve, 3 j'etablirai v Dent de Vaulion Meridienne de l'Observatoire de Geneve. environ 6o. Est de Greenwich Lac de Joux N de O Jura T Vincy s N de Geneve Mont Lac A Dent Le C Parallele de l'Observe.de Geneve. r q Geneve Lat.46o.12'.4''. A r v e R. E R h o n e, Y Mont de Marsilly Mt. Saleve Le Pithon Le Mole o p O f Mt.de la Caille Mt. de C h o u t a g n e Aiguille des Fours Mt.Colombier e ~ a c Annecy 5000 1000~ b d g La Tournette Lac du Bourget ~ Mt. du Chat h Dent de Nivolet Chamberi i ~ ~ ~ B E R ~ Guemmi ~ Villeneuve N Dent d'Oche ~Aigle Rhone Fl. La Cornette E t V Bex A I S Dent de Morcle ~ Sion ~Leuch L ~ St.Maurice 1o A E L ~ ~ Martigny Catogne Drance R. u Glacier de Buet ou Mortine 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000 45000 50000 Toises de France Philos. Trans. Vol. LXXXI. Tab. II. ~ 126. Rothorn Obergestlen ~ Lax ~ 2o Est de ~ nce A ~ ~ Aiguebelle Mt. k Coceiron Arc R. l Mt.des Combes S m St.Jean deMaurienne Mt. Sapey Aiguilles d'Arve ~ ~. Convenience of a Measurement near Geneva. 127 j'etablirai la suite de triangles pour y parvenir; et l'incertitude qui me reste sur l'etendue totale de l'arc du parallele dont les deux extremites sont visibles depuis la montagne dont je viens de parler, sera levee. 