XI. On the action of crystallized susfes upon light. By David Brewster, LL. D. F. R. S. Lond., and Edin. In a letter addressed to the Right IAn. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G. c. B. P. R. S. &c. &c. &c. Read February 9,5 1819. MY DEAR SIR, IT has been remarked by MALUS, in his Theory of Double Refraction," that the actio'n which the first surface of Iceland sC spar exercises upon light, is independent of the position of its principal section ;-that its reflecting power extends beyond the limits of the polarising forces of the crystal, and that as "light is only polarised by penetrating the surface, the forces c' which produce extraordinary refraction begin to act only at this limit." He also observes, that " the angle of incidence "at which Iceland spar polarises light by partial reflection, is i560 So'; that it then comports itself like a common transpa"rent body; and that whatever be the angle comprehended "between the plane of incidence and the principal section of "cthe crystal, the ray reflected by the first surface is always "polarised in the same manner." * These conclusions, obtained experimentally by an author of such distinguished eminence, I should naturally have received as established truths had I not been led, by a series of experiments made before the perusal of his work, to opinnions of an opposite kind. My experiments indicated an extension of the polarising forces beyond the crystal ; and I* Theorie de la Duble JRefracon, pp. 240, 24!.MDCCCXIXO UlI 146 Dr. BREWSTER on the action (f Was thus inducer to question the accuracy of MALUS'S ViewsJ and to repeat the experiments upon which he had founded them. The results of this investigation, while they have overturned the opinions hitherto adopted, have at the same time led to the establishment of several points both of theore. tical and practical importance. In giving an account of these results, I shall first consider the effects produced upon transmitted light by a change in the mechanical condition of the surfaces of crystals, and then establish the laws according to which the interior forces affect and modify the forces which produce partial reflection.. SECT. L. On the ffects produced upon transmitted light, by achange in the mechanical condition of the szrfaces of crystals. If we take a hexaedral prism of nitrate of potash, and ob. serve a luminous object through two of its inclined surfaces that have a good natural or artificial polish, we shall perceive two distinct and perfectly formed images. If we now roughen these two surfaces, and cement upon each of them a plate of glass by means of balsam of capivi, the character of the two images will be greatly changed. The image that has suffered the greatest refraction will be as distinct as before, but the other image will be either of a faint reddish colour, or wholly invisible, according to the degree of roughness induced upon the refracting surfaces. When oil of cassia is used instead of the balsam, the least refracted image, if it was visible before, will now be completely extinguished. By substituting pure alcohol, or the white of an egg, instead of the balsam the least refracted image will become distinct and the most refracted image will be either a mass of nebulous crystal/ized surfrces upon light. A4 light, or almost invisible. A result nearly similar will be obtained with water, notwithstanding its effect in dissolving the little prominences which constitute the superficial roughness of the crystal. In order to explain these phenomena, we must recollect that the index of refraction for the ordinary image of nitre is i.it I, and that of the extraordinary image 1328. When the rough surface of the nitre is covered with balsam of capivi, which has nearly the same index of refraction as the ordinary image, the same effect is produced as if the rough surface had been polished for the ordinary rays. All the little pits or depressions in the rough surface being filled up with balsam, the ordinary rays suffer little or no refraction in penetrating the crystal, and therefore the image which they form will be as clear and distinct as in the first experiment. But since the index of refraction for the extraordinary image is much less than that of the balsam, the rays of which it is composed will not enter the crystal undisturbed, but will be scattered in the same manner as if its surface was rough, and had a refractive power corresponding to the difference between the index of refraction for the extraordinary ray, and the index of refraction for the balsam. When water or alcohol is substituted in room of the balsam, the effects now described are interchanged, the roughness being removed for the extraordinary rays by the application of a fluid of the same refrac. tive density, while the rays that form the ordinary image are dispersed by the refractions which still exist at the rough surface of the crystal. These effects will be still better understood by supposing the crystal to consist of an extraordinary and an ordinary 148 Dr. BREWSTER 0 the action of medium arranged in alternate strata. When the superficial polish of both these media is removed, the application of the balsam restores, as it were, the polish of the ordinary medium, without restoring that of the extraordinary medium; while the application of the alcohl o restores the Polish of the extraordinary medium without restoring that of the ordinary *~~~~~~~~~~ mediump When the refractive power of the fluid is intermediate between that of the two media, the ordinary and the extraordinary image will be equally indistinct; and we have it in our power to alter the distinctness of either of the images, by varying the refractive force of the interposed fluid. If the plane of incidence is not perpendicular to the axis, a variation in the angle of incidence will produce a variation in the index of refraction of the extraordinary ray; and, since the refractive power of the interposed fluid suffers no change, the extraordinary image must become more or less distinct, according as its index of refraction is made to approach more or less to that of the fluid, by varying the inclination of the refracted ray to the axis. From the preceding experiments, which have been repeated wvith the same results vith calcare us spar, arragonite, and 'many other crystals, we may deduce the following conclusions: in The force of double refraction and polarisation extends not only without the interior limit of the ordinary refractive force, but also without the surface of the crystal. 2. The force of double refraction and polarisation emanates from the surface of bodies, though its intensity depends upon the inclination of the surface to the axis of the crystal. n. T1he ordinary or the extraordinary image may be excrystallized sutfaces upon lighzt. ttinguished at pleasure in any doubly refracting crystal ; and the crystal is thus converted into a singly refracting crystal, like certain specimens of agate. 4. In soft crystals that do not admit of a perfect polish, the distinctness of any of the two images may be made a maximum, by giving the crystal the best polish of which it is susceptible, and then cementing plates of glass upon its surfaces, by a transparent cement of the same refractive power as that of the pencil which is to be rendered most distinctIf it is required to make the two images equally distinct, the refractive power of the 'cement must be a mean between that of the ordinary refraction, and the extraordinary refraction which corresponds to the angle which the refracted ray forms with the axis of double refraction. ,. All doubly refracting crystals consist of an ordinary and an extraordinary medium, alternating vith each other, and varying in density according to a law which I have described in another paper.* I consider the optical structure of agate as demonstrating the existence of two media. In quartz, the two media are equally perfect and transparent; but in certain specimens of agate, the one mediumis seen in a separate state from theother, and broken down into small portions like the figures f3og The light which passes through these portions, is evidently acted upon by a different refractive power from that which* The papr here alluded to, was laid before the Ro'yal Society of Edinburgh oil the i6th of March, s8i8; b ut as it could not have been understood without the preceding experiments, its publication was necessarily delayed. The theory which it contains embraces also the complex phenomena which arise from the comrbination of two or more axes, Se the Pbil. Trans Lond , i8x8, p. z64. 150 Dr. BREWSTER onD the action of passes through the rest of the crystal, and is polarised in a transverse plain.* SECT. II. On the influence of the polarising force of doubly refracting crystals, upon the polarising force which accompanies partial reftection. The experiments in the preceding section could not fail to throw a doubt upon the identity of action exercised upon reflected light by crystallized and uncrystallized surfaces. I was therefore led to a' more minute investigation of the subject, and obtained a series of very unexpected results, which I shall explain under the three heads into which they naturally arrange themselves. * On the change produced upon the polarising angle by the interior forces of doubly refracting crystals. In order to examine with care the superficial action of calcareous spar, I exposed several surfaces by cleavage, and having selected the one that had the most perfect polish, I covered all the other sides of the rhomb with black wax, and measured the polarising angles in planes variously inclined to the principal section. The following are the results of a great number of observations: Position of the crystal. Azimuth. Polarising No. of angle. observations. :Short diagonal in plane of reflection 00 570 14' 39 One of the edges in plane of reflection So .5' 58 32 15 Long diagonal in plane of reflection go 59 32 37 Difference between the greatest and least pot laising angle 020 18'* See Pbil. Trans. 1813, p. xo4; 184, p. x9i; and Edin. Trans. vol. vii. p. 298, 9. rystallized surfrces upon h1it. iqt The following observations were made with rhombs taken from a different mass of calcareous spar: Position of the crystal. Azimuth. Polarising No. of angle. observations. Short diagonal in plane of reflection oo 70 36' 5 One of the edges in plane of reflection 50 57' 258 50 7 Long diagonal in plane of reflection go 59 44 7 In these experiments the results were the same, whether the obtuse angle of the rhomb was nearest or farthest from the eye, or whether it was to the right or left hand of the observer. In order to determine the angle of polarisation for surfaces differently inclined to the axis, I selected some fine Faroe crystals of calcareous spar from the cabinets of Sir GEORGE MACKENZIE and Mr. ALLAN. One of these crystals was an acute dodecahedron, having a highly polished surface inclined about ? to the axis, and wvith it I obtained the following results. Position of the crystal. Polarising angle. No. of observations. Axis in plane of reflection 18' Axis perpendicular to plane of reflection 8 10 I was now desirous to obtain, a surface perpendicular to the axis; but I have searched in vain for such a specimen, and have invariably found that the sulmmnit of the prism is rough and unpolished. With a surface polished by art, and cut per. pendicular to the axis, I found the polarising angle about 58 is'; but I do not regard this result as deserving any particular attention. In order to supply the defect of natural faces, I ground and polished a great variety of surfaces, inclined at all angles 1*59 Dr. BREWSTER oi the action of to the axis but the res~ults clearly proved that the peculiar action of the surfaces, in varying the polarising angle, is exhibited only by the highly polished faces which are sometimes obtained from cleavage, or whiclh occur in perfect crystals. The following observations were made with a fine crystal of Chromate of lead: Position of the crystal. Polarising angle. No. of observations. Axis of prism in plane of reflection 670 48' 4 Axis of prism perpendicular to the plane of reflection 65 42 4 In the first of these positions a great quantity of brilliant blue light remained unpolarised, whereas in the second position the whole of the pencil suffered complete polarisation. 2. On the change produced upton the polarisation of the refected ray, by the interior forces of doubly refracting crystals. Since the extraordinary force in calcareous spar was thus shown to extend to such a distance beyond the surface as to modify the polarising angle produced by superficial reflection, it became extremely probable that the polarisation of the reflected ray might suffer some change from the same cause: but after themost careful observation, I could not discover the slightest indication of such an effect. Upon reflecting farther, however, on the nature of the change which I had expected, it occurred to me that the action of the ordinary reflecting force was so powerful, as to mask the influence of the inferior force which emanated from the axis, and that the effect of the one might be rendered visible by diminishing the intensity of the other. I accordingly introduced a film of oil of Cassia between a glass prism and the surface of the spar, crystallized surfaces upon light. Chug and heaving inclined the prism at a very small angle to that surface, I thus separated the image formed at the common surface of the prism, and the oil from the image formed at the commo n surface of the oil and the spar. The effect was exactly what I had anticipated. The influence of the ordinary reflecting force was reduced almost to nothing, and the light reflected from the separating surface of the oil and the spar, was polarised at an angle of about 45-2 and was almost entirely under the dominion of the force which emanated from the axis. The following were the results obtained with an ordinary surface, inclined 450 A' to the axis. i. Azimuth O&. When the plane of the principal section is in the plane of reflection, the light reflected at the surface of the oil and the spar is polarised in the plane of reflection, the obtuse solid angle being farthest from the eye. The light of the image is of a faint red colour, and has very little intensity. a. Azimuth 1 a. The obtuse angle being farthest from the eye, the reflected pencil is polarized about 450 Out of the plane of reflection. :3. Azimuth 42p. The reflected pencil is polarised transverse to the plane of reflection, or 9oo out of it. The light .is now of a yellowish white tint, and is much more intense than in azimuth of 4. 4Azimuth gO'. When the plane of reflection is perpendicular to the plane of the principal section, the obtuse solid Mangle being either to the right or left hand, the reflected pencil is polarised a little more than i5', or out of the plane of reflection. The intensity of the pencil is now intermnediate between that of azimuth o0 and 450, S. Azimulh 1800. The obtuse angle being now next the MDcCCXIX. X De* BREWSTER t action of eye, the pencil is polarised 1800 out of the plane of reflecion, or it has again returned into that plane. In passing through the last .45" of azimuth, the polarisation varies very slowly, the change being only about 100; whereas in passing through the first 4V of azimuth, the polarisation, varies no less than 9q0, indicating in the most unequivocal manner, as we shall afterwards see, that this change depends upon the angle which the 'incident ray forms with the axis of the crystal. The light reflected from the separating surface of the oil and the spar is a maximum, when the plane of the principal section is perpendicular to the plane of reflection, and its colour is then nearly white. When these two planes coincide, the intensity of the light is a minimum, and its colour is then a faint red; and in intermediate positions, the reflected pencil has both its intensity and its clour of an intermediate character. In the azimuth of 4%, the reflected pencil exhibits a very curious phenomenon when analysed with calcareous spar. Its colour is then yellowish white, and all the yellow light is polarised transversely to the plane of reflection. Oneof the images, however, instead of vanishing, consists of blues and red light, the red vanishing, and the blue becoming more brilliant as tbe analysing prism is turned to the left and the blue vanishing, and the red becoming more brilliant as the prism is turned to the right. This effect arises from the diffes rence in the angles at which the red and -blue rays are incident upon the separating surface of the oil and the spar. Each set of rays, therefore, as will afterwards appear, suffers a different change of pdlarisation, the one being polarised about 87 out of the plane of reflection, and the other g; crystallized surfaces upon light. '55 I have repeated the preceding experiments by substituting in place of oil of cassia, water, alcohol, castor oil, balsam of capivi, and oil of anise seeds a series of fluids whose refractive powers increase progressively. With water, the light refuses to be polarised completely in the direction of the long diagora nal, while it suffers complete polarisation in the direction of the short diagonal. With alcohol, the direction of the polaris sation is not altered. With castor oil, the intensity of the light is greater in the direction of the long diagonal, than in that of the short one; and in the former case, the pencil is polarised at a much greater angle than in the latter. With balsam of capivi, in the azimuth of 4,50 the pencil ispolarised about .1, out of the plane of reflection. In the azimuth of go9, the pencil is not completely polarised at any angle, but is nearly so in the plane of reflection,, and at a considerable angle of incidence. In oe of azimuth, the pencil is completely polarised in the plane of reflection. With oil of anise seeds, in -azimuth 450, the pencil is polarised about 45' out of the plane of reflection. In azimuth go', the pencil refuses to be polarised at any angle, and in o0 of azimuth, the polarisation is complete in the plane of reflection. As the preceding results were obtained with a surface inclined 450 23M' to the axis, I was anxious to observe the effects produced by the, Faroe crystals, where the natural faces are nearly in the plane of the axis. I accordingly repeated the experiments with a variety of these crystals, and in every case I observed the same phenomena. In the azimuth of go9, where the polarising angle is 580 1i', the pencil was polarised a degree or two out of the plane of reflection. In the azimuth of +5owhere the polarising angle is about 156 Dr. BREWSTER on the action of 56 i6, the change of polarisation is about god; and in th azimuth of 00, where the polarising angle is 54, i8', the change of polarisation was a little more than 960 when the -obtuse angle was farthest from the eye, and about 106? when the obtuse angle was nearest the eye. In all these positions the image reflected from the surface of the oil and the spar, is nearly as bright as that from the surface of tthe prism and the oil. In order to determine the change of polarisation when the plane of reflection was perpendicular to the axis, it was necess sary to have a prismatic crystal of calcareouL: spar with a polished summit; but I have always found this summit rough and unpolished. There was therefore no alternative bu t to polish an artificial face cut in this direction; and upon the application of oil of cassia, I found that in every azimuth the change of polarisation was about 750. The colour of the image was a bright yellow, and a little blue light remained at the point of evanescence.. In extending these experiments to other crystals I have obtained similar results; but there are none so well fitted for this species of examination as calcareous spar. In applying oil of cassia to a very fine prism of chromate of lead, thcdirection of the polarisation was not in the slightest degree altered, as the ordinary action was not sufficiently weakened to render visible the influence of the interior force. When the plane of reflection passed through 2 e axis of the prism blue light remained in the vanishing image; but in a plane rectangular to thi , the light was coinpletely polari ed, as ini the experiment when the reflecting surface was in co itact Nwith aura crystallized surfaces upon light. 1S7 I now tried rock crystal and oil of anise seeds, which have nearly the same mean refraction; but on account of the great debility of the interior polarising force, it was not able to overpower or even to modify that which accompanies partial reflection. I could easily have reduced this last force still farther till it came under the dominion of the first; but the reflecting power would have been reduced in the same proportion, and would not have been capable of driving back a number of rays sufficient to form a perceptible image. But though the polarisation is not changed at the separating sure face of the oil and the rock crystal, yet the character of the reflected light is modified in a very remarkable manner. When the plane of reflection from one of the sides of the prism of rock crystal was in the direction of the axis, or in 00 of azimuth, the reflected image was a deep blue of very little intensity; whereas in a rectangular direction, where the azimuth was 9o&, it was of a brick red colour, and much more luminous. On one of the faces of the pyramid, in azia muth 00, the tint was a brilliant pink, intermediate between the red and the blue; and on the same face, in 900 of azimuth, it was of a brick ?ed colour as before. These variations are obviously related to the axis of double refraction, and indicate the extension of its force within the sphere of partial reflect tion. The origin of the colours themselves, I shall soon have occasion to explain, in a paper on the action of uncrystallized surfaces. * X General results deduced from the preceding experiments. Had it been in my power to command a series of the most* This Paper was read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, on the 4th January SI 9-. 158 Dr. BREWSTER on the action of perfect crystals, or to communicate to artificial faces that high polish which nature often exhibits, I might have obtained a more complete generalisation of the preceding phenomena. Limited, however, as the investigation has been by these ,causes, it still presents us with several views of great generality and interest. FIRST. The force of double refraction and polarisation extends without the surface -of crystals and within the sphere of the force which produces partial reflection. SECOND. The change in the angle of polarisation produced by the interior force, depends on the inclination of the reflecting surface to the axis of the crystal, and also on the azimuthal angle which the plane of reflection forms with the principal section. In any given surface, where A and A" are the minimum and maximum polarising angles, viz. in the azimuth (if o0 and 9Q0, the polarising angle A' at any intermediate azimuth a, may be found by the formula Al-A + Sin.2(A"A)* In the rhomboidal surfaces of calcareous spar All A 13 8'. THIRD. The change in the direction of the polarisation must be produced after the ray has suffered reflection ; for if the change preceded reflection, the reflecting force would have polarised it in the plane of reflection, whatever had been the direction of its previous polarisation. FOurRTH. The change in the direction of the polarisation depends upon the angle which the incident ray forms with the axis of the crystal, and takes place -in such .a manner that if rystallized surfaces upon light. 159 = angle of incident ray with the axis; and C = change in the direction of the polarisation, ve shall have Sin. C= iSin.. If we make A =complement of the inclination of the reflecting plane to the axis; = azimuth of the plane of incidence with the principal section ; and i = angle of incidence reckoned from the perpendicular, we shall leave Cos. o, x Tang. A = Tang z, and Cos. A X Cos. (i I Z) Cos. o =-Cos. z In one of the ordinary rhomboidal surfaces where the inclination to the axis is 4tO 23j', A.4436 g62'; and with oil of cassia i or the incidence of the meanray, when the polaris sation is complete, -is about 450 17'. 1 have assumed it at 4 2s3l' (which will be more correct for the mean luminous ray than 45? 17') for the purpose of making the change of polarisation commence with zero in O of azimuth. Upon these principles I have computed the following table, 'Which shows the change in the direction of the polarisation, corresponding to any azimuth and any inclination of the inoi (dent ray with the axis. 6o Dr. BREWSTER On the action &c. TABLE showing the change in the direction of the polarisatzon in dfferent azimuths. Azimuth. Inclination of iciChange in the direction dent ray to the axis. of the polarisation. . o 0 / 0 I o 00 00 106 54 40 36 20 6SO 65 6 30 23 0 77 22 40 29 24 88 Sz 45 32 38 94 34 50 571 36 29 100 54. 6o 42 17 110 10 70 48 32 120 0 So S 37 129 8 90 6o0 1 37 0 100 65 56 145 48 110 71 4 153 4 120 , 75 42 i59 48 129 21 79 Z8 569 3 135 84 41 19 4 140 83 2Z 170 34 150 86 12 174 52 i60 88 i 8 177 36 170 89 33 179 28 18o 9o 0 i8o o The results in the preceding table enable us to explain the phenomenon described in p. USA. As the interposed oil of cassia has a prismatic form and a very high dispersive, power, the blue and the red rays are incident at different angles with the axis, and therefore the change in the direction of their polarisation must be different. The nearest approximation to evanescence in one of the images, belongs to the mean ray of the spectrum, and therefore at this point the image that should have vanished, must consist of blue and red light, one of which will disappear before, and the other after, the mean ray. I have the honour to be, &c. &c. &c. DAVID BREWSTER. To the Right Hon. Sir JOSEPH BAN Ks, Bart. Go C. B. P. R. S. &c. &c. &c. Edinburgh, Nov. i s, 8 i 8. From tbe Press of W. BUL MER &fl Co. Cleveland-rows St. 7ames's, 