(1035) Numb. 142. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. For the Months of December, January, and February, 1678. The Contents. Anatomical Observations of an Abscess in the Liver, &c. Of four Ureters, &c. in an Infant. Observations Di. Anthonii Leewenhoeck, de prognatis e Semine genitali Animalculis, &c. The Art of Refining. An Account of the English Allum-Works. Of the English Green-Copperas-Works. Of the Salt Waters of Droytwich in Worcestershire. The Description, Culture and use of Maiz. An Account of the manner of making Malt in Scotland. An Account of a Book written lately by Sir George Ent, entitled '~ sive Animadversiones, &c. Anatomical Observations of an Abscess in the Liver; a great number of Stones in the Gall-Bag and Bilious vessels; an unusual Conformation of the Emulgents and Pelvis; a strange Conjunction of both Kidneys; and great dilatation of the Vena Cava, communicated by Edw. Tyson A. M. and M.S. Oxon. THe Anatomie of morbid Bodies, as Dr. Harvey hath observed, is most instructive; thereby we are acquainted not only with the many Causes that oppress Nature, but likewise with the Liberty she often takes in forming the parts different from her usual Rule; our present subject affords both. For on September 14th. 1678. opening the Body of a Reverend and worthy Clergy-man of this City (where were 6 U present (1036) present likewise Dr. Paget, Dr. Morton, Dr. Wittie, Dr. Darel, &c.) we observed the Liver to be very large and fastned to the Diaphragm more then usually; the Golon so firmly joyned to the Liver near the Gall-Bladder, that I could not separate it without Incision. The Gibbous part of the Liver towards the right side, appeared discoloured, where making an Incision there plentifully issued out a perfect Pus, very faetid; as likewise there did from a wound I made in its Cavous part near the Fissure. This purulent Matter I found not contained in any particular Cystis or Bag, but inseveral Sinus's in that part of the Liver; whereas the other parts seemed sound and well coloured. Nor did I meet with any where any Tubercules, Glandules, or Schirrhus. This Abfcess may well be presumed the Cause of that lurking Feaver that took off the Patient; he labouring under it about six weeks, yet without much Complaints of sickness, but troubled with irregular heats, yet sometimes such as were inperceptible to himself: twice or thrice, but at great distances, he had paroxysms of Chill fits like an Intermittent Feavor, but such a faetor and dryness in his Throat as proved obstinate to all Medicines. His approaching Death was attended with other symptoms that usually follow the affection of the Brain and Genus Nervosum. Formerly he had been often subject to the Yellow Jaundice; and 'tis well worth the enquiry, why at present nothing thereof appeared? since the Gall Bladder was not only filled and crammed with Stones, but likewise the Meatus Cysticus and Ductus Communis even to the Duodenum, were very much extended with them, as likewise in the Porus Bilarius I met with several small ones. There was no fluid Gall contained in the Bladder, but some that was soft, of a deep yellow Ochre colour that filled up the Interstices of the Stones. These Stones were of a various bigness, from that of a large Nut,or Nutmeg,to a Pepper corn: their colour was of a darkish yellow Ochre, although in some there appeared Laminae of a browner colour: to the touch, when a little dry,they seemed soapy; their weight was light,and their scent very fetid, resembling that of the purulent matter in the Liver. Their consistence was friable; their figure for the most part Triangular, or inclining to that figure, but all Angular; that side towards the Gall Bag was protuberant and convex, (1037) vex, the other two sides were flat;so that having the lesser Angle towards the Center of the Cavity of the Gall Bag, like so many wedges, they more compleatly filled it: I numbred I think above thirty. Whether their Triangular figure be from the shooting of any Salts in the Gall, or from any other Causes, tis hard to determine. But I do suppose 'twill be found that they usually affect this figure; as in some others I have by me, taken out of the Gall-Bladder of a Woman at Oxon some years ago, do more plainly appear, which are also light, do feel soapy, consist of Laminae, are of a whitish colour, not ill scented as the former, and of a triangular figure. Our enquiry thus far had informed us of the Cause of the Patients Death, as well as of his former illness, and frequent disposition to the Jaundice. But prosecuting our search we were more surprised, to observe the unusual structure and conjunction of both Kidneys, the Parenchyma of the one being continued over the Spine unto the other, so that they both made but one continued semilunary Body. This although rare, yet hath been sometimes observed by former Authors. Schenckius mentioneth fromCasper.Wolphius that Rondeletius formerly observed but one Kidney in an Humane Body, qui forma Lunari erat, ambo nimirum simul conjuncti. Caspar Bauhinus in his Theatr. Anatom. hath given a figure of such a Kidney. But that which Bartholin describes in Hist, Anatom. Cent. 2. Hist. 77.comes much nearer our subject,although in several particulars different, as will appear by his Cut there, or as tis added by Blasius in his Appendix to Bellinus, de structura & usu Renum. The Kidneys here were large, that part that conjoyneth them and lay over the Spine, was something lesser then the true Kidney's, and in its outward Tunicle or Membrane had three seams, although that Parenchyma inwardly seemed not to ob serve such a division, but was the same with the substance of the Kidney's. The Emulgent vessels were very numerous; for besides two larger veins that were subdivided into several lesser ramifications, there were divers other that were single, even to their insertion into the Vena Cava. The middle Part likewise by which both Kidneys were conjoyned was plen6 U 2 tifully (1038) tifully provided with Blood vessels, for it received from the Aorta two Arteries, which before their insertion, were each subdivided into three branches; and it sent out two veins, which being joyned afterward into one, entered the Vena Cava. Besides at the Seam at the lower part of the ~ Kidney, it had a Vein and Artery, which afterwards inserte themselves into the Iliac branches of the Aorta and Cava, s that Nature though erring from her wonted Rule in ~ this part, yet was provident in furnishing it with Vessels. But to the whole Compages of the Kidney's, there belonged only two Ureters,but the great dilatation of the Pelvis in each was remarkable; for that of the left Kidney when blown up, was larger then it is represented in the figure, and had a triple origination; The right had but a single one and was less. Whether this Conformation and structure of the Kidney's and its Vessels were of much inconvenience to the Patient, I shall not define; but am apt to think, that it might occasion as well the great dilatation of the Vena Cava, as also of the Pelvis: for the middle part conjoyning both the Kidneys lying over the Vena Cava, by its weight pressing thereon, would hinder the free return of the Blood, which yet would make room for its self, by enlarging its own Channel, which was so capacious as to contain three or four of my fingers. So likewise the Ureters running over that part that conjoyns the Kidneys like strings over the Bridge of a Viol, in some Position of the Body they might have their passage so streightned, that the Urin being impeded and regurgitating, might swell and stretch the Membrane of the Pelvis to this greatness. The Explication of Fig. 1. Tab. 1. A. The right B. The left Kidney. C. The middle part conjoyning both Kidneys. d. e. f. Three seams in the Tunicle of the Kidneys. G. The Arteria Aorta. hh. Two Arteries from the Aorta which afterwards are ramified into three, and so inserted into the said middle part. I The (1039) I. The Vena Cava. KK. Two Veins arising from the middle part which uniting into one, entred the Vena Cava. L. M. A Vein and Artery arising at the Seam (f.) which at last are both inserted into the Iliac branches of the Aorta and Vena Cava. N.N. The Emulgent Artery of both Kidneys, whose ramifications are not here represented. O.O. The Emulgent Veins; whereof some are single, others variously ramified. P. P. Pelvis of both Kidneys, that of the left was extream large. Tab: ~ FiG: ~ n A Q Tab: 1 Fig: 1 n B ~ 1 6 Fig:5 D A Fig:4 3 2 Fig:1 8 ~ ~ 6 Fig:5 