Some probable thoughts of the White ness of the Chyle, and what it is after it is conveyed within the Arteries. By the Learned Martin Lister Esq; 1. IN the digestion of meat in the stomack, there is made a separation or solution of Urinous Salts; no otherwise than in the rotting of Plants or Animals. 2. TheChyle is highly impregnated with this Urinous Salt. 3. The Whiteness of the Chyle is from the Fermentation it has from its mixture with Urinous Salts, and that if diluted with fair water, it is wholely deprived of that colour, the Fermentation ceasing. 4. The Salt Chyle is conveyed into the Venal blood, and with it enters the heart; and it is thence thrown out again Chyle, as it comes in, by a continual pulsation, intothe Arteries. 5. That (243) 5. That as oft as it enters the Emulgent Arteries, it there leaves behind it part of its Salinous liquor or Urine, and consequently abates of its colour. 6. That when sufficiently freed of its Urinous Salt, it becomes a Lympha; which we think nothing else, but the residue of the Chyle, not yet made into the nature of blood, as not sufficiently deparated of its saline particles. 7. That probably it circulates long under the nature of a Lympha, often visiting all the parts of the body by the Arteries, and returning again to the Heart, partly by its own vessels, aud partly by the veines. 8. That in defect of Chyle (for we cannot constantly feed) nature continually supplies the mass of blood with the Lympha, or old Chyle. 9. That uppon every supply of fresh Chyle, much of the old stock, or Lympha is (according to the necessity of parts) converted into this or that use,and not till then. 10. That there is ever more Lympha in the mass of blood, than there is need of for the diluting of it. The arterial blood (be the animal never so much exhausted by hunger) alwaies parting with some,upon extravasation and coagu at on. 11. In the coagulation of extravasated blood, there is no precipitation of parts, as in curdled Milk, &c. for if the Chyle be freshly distributed into the mass of blood, it will again seperate it self, as it will from water; and in like manner it is with the Lympha or old Chyle, neither of them being as yet any essential part of the blood. 12 The venal and arterial blood have probably both a like quantity of Lympha to diltute them; but the arterial in coagulating involves within its crassamentum more than the venal: the reason may be, for that the arterial is fuller of air, which rarifies and renders the arterial crassamentum more porous, and capacious of lodging the Lympha; which yet as it subsides by long standing, parts (244) parts with more and more Lympha daily. 13. The great instrument of the circulation of the blood is the Systole, or vibration of the heart, which yet would not be sufficient from hindring the coagulation of the blood, without a continual supply of Lympha to dilute it. 