[361] XXXVII. An Essay, towards elucidating the History of the Sea-Anemonies, by Abbe Dicquemare, Member of several Academies, Professor of Experimental Philosophy, &c. at Havre de Grace. Communicated by Matthew Maty, M. D. Sec. R. S. Translated from the French. WHatever is relative to animals, their mode of being, growth, and decrease, propagation, strength, actions, distempers, food, length of life, and even the phaenomena observed at their death, are so many objects interesting to man. If his moral qualities bear no analogy with theirs, his natural constitution admits of similarities between them. Read Feb. 11, and April 29, 1773. Memoire pour servir a l'histoire des Anemones de Mer; par Mr. l'Abbe Dicquemare, de plusieurs Academies Royales, Professeur de Physique Experimentale, au Havre de Grace. TOUT ce qui a rapport aux animaux, leur maniere d'etre, les accroissemens et decroissemens qu'ils eprouvent, leur generation, leur force, leurs actions, leurs maladies, leur nourriture, la duree de leur vie, les phenomenes qu'ils nous presentent meme a la mort, sont autant d'objets qui doivent interesser l'homme. Si son etre moral n'ossre avec eux aucune analogie, sa constitution physique permet des similitudes. 2 my, [362] Comparative anatomy, and experiments made upon living animals, have unravelled to us part of their vital, natural, and animal faculties. Among the last, those which depend upon the organic disposition of the parts, and which perhaps are the principle of many more functions, might receive new lights from observations to be made upon such animals, as seem to deviate most from our mode of being. Surprized by the phaenomena these animals afford, we pry with eager looks into the secrets of nature; there we preceive effects, which shew us, that the inmost conformation of some particular animals not tallying with our former notions, we must renounce, as groundless prepossessions, such laws as we had been too hasty in laying down as universal. Those effects, and the method of observing them, which ought, seemingly, upon a first inspection, to enable us, L'anatomie comparee, et les experiences faites sur les animaux vivans, nous ont devoile une partie des fonctions vitales, naturelles, et animales. Parmi ces dernieres, celles qui dependent de la disposition organique des parties et qui sont peut-etre le principe de beaucoup d'autres, pourroient recevoir une nouvelle lumiere des observations a faire sur les animaux, qui semblent s'eloigner le plus de notre maniere d'etre. Surpris par les phenomenes qu'ils nous presentent, on fouille avec avidite dans le sein de la nature; on y apercoit des effets qui nous aprenent que la conformation la plus intime de certains animaux ne s'accordant pas avec nos anciennes idees, nous devons rejetter comme prejuges, des loix qu' on s'etoit trop presse de generaliser. Ces effets, et la maniere de les observer, qui semblent au premier coup d'oeuil devoir nous raprocher peu a peu de la cause, soutenir nos esperances, flater notre [363] us, by degrees, to investigate the cause, support our hopes, and flatter our vanity; are nevertheless meant to shew us that the marvellous works of nature far exceed what we know, or even are able to know of them. Convinced of that truth, and in order to improve my customary walks by the sea side to some useful purpose, I bestowed a particular attention, in the month of November 1771, upon the Sea-Anemonies, a most singular species of animals, on which naturalists have hitherto made less ample and accurate observations. Some of those writers have even confined themselves to mere conjectures. My first success in these discoveries soon turned these amusements of mine into a long study, much more laborious than that made in a library. There notre vanite, n'en paroissent pas moins destines a nous faire voir que les merveilles de la nature sont bein au dessus de ce que nous connoissons, et sans doute de ce que nous pouvons connoitre. Penetre de ces verites, et dans la vue de repandre une sorte d'interest dans les delassemens que j'ai coutume de prendre au bord de la mer, je jettai les yeux des le mois de Novembre 1771, sur les Anemones de Mer, animaux singuliers sur lesquels les naturalistes n'avoient fait jusque la que des observations moins precises et moins etendues; souvent meme s'en sont-ils tenus a de simples conjectures. Mes premiers succes changerent bientot ces recreations en un travail long et plus penible que ceux du cabinet. VOL. LXIV. B b b Il [364] There is great confusion in the descriptions which naturalists have given of these animals, and no less in the names bestowed upon, and the divisions or classes assigned to, them. Some have called them Sea-Nettle (Urticae Marinae), though these animals are not prickly, as some of the wandering Nettles are, upon which I have, for some time past, made observations which I intend to pursue. Other writers have called them Sea-Anemonies. This essay, together with the plates annexed, will satisfy the reader as to the name I have preferred. It would be needless to insist longer about names. The Sea-Anemonies, found on the coast of the Havre, seem to me to constitute three different species. Those which I put in the first class (because in certain positions they resemble most the flower knownby the name of Anemone) cling or adhere to rocks and stones, and are often found in the holes that chance Il regne une grande confusion dans les descriptions que nous ont donne de ces animaux les naturalistes, dans les noms qu'ils leur ont imposes, et dans les divisions qu'on en a faites. Quelques uns les nomment Orties Marines (Urticae Marinae) quoiqu'ils ne piquent point comme quelques orties errantes, sur lesquelles j'ai fait depuis longtemps des observations que je me propose de continuer. D'autres leur ont donne le nom d'Anemones de Mer. Ce memoire, et les figures qui l'accompagnent pourront justifier le choix que j'ai fait de ce nom. Il est inutile d'etendre plus loin cette nomenclature. Les rivages du Havre offrent des Anemones de Mer, qui m'ont paru former trois especes. Celles que je regarde comme de la premiere (parce que dans certaines positions elles ressemblent plus parfaitement a la fleur qui porte le nom d'Anemone) s'attache [365] chance to be in them, and seem to like the surface of the water. The outward shape of the body of this animal, when it contracts itself, is much like a truncated cone [TAB. XVI. fig. 1.], with its basis fixed and strongly clinging to the rock. Its upper part is terminated with a hollow. This cone is often perpendicular to its basis; sometimes it lies in an oblique position to it, or the basis spreads itself irregularly; so that from a round, it alters to an elliptical shape. Sometimes it imitates pretty exactly the inclosing out-leaves of anemonies, whilst the limbs of the animal are not unlike the shag, or inner part of these flowers, fig. 2. At other times, it assumes the shape expressed by fig. 3. Indeed, these animals alter their forms so often, that it would be difficult, perhaps even impossible, to describe them exactly. One part of their ~'attache aux rochers, aux cailloux, souvent meme dans les troux qui s'y trouvent, et se plait a la surface de l'eau. La forme exterieure du corps de l'animal, lorsqu'il est retire sur lui meme aproche beaucoup de celle d'un cone tronque, (Pl. XVI. Fig. 1.) dont la base est apliquee et fortement atachee contre les rochers, et la partie superieure se termine par une convexite. Souvent ce cone est perpendiculaire a la base; quelquefois il est a son egard dans une position oblique, la base s'elargit irregulierement, en sorte que de ronde elle devient elliptique. On la voit quelquefois imiter assez bien le manteau d'une anemone, tandis que les membres de l'animal paroissent en etre la pluche, Fig. 2. d'autres fois il prend la forme de la figure 3. D'ailleurs ces animaux varient si souvent leur forme, qu'il seroit dificile, peutetre m~me impossible, de les bien decrire. Une partie de leur B b b 2 corps [366] their body or limbs swells, at times, very considerably, at the expence of the rest. The figures and the particular observations will supply what is wanting here. With regard to their colours, they vary amazingly. Every hue of purple, green, brown and violet is to be seen blended together. A great number of them are of one uniform colour; whilst others are spotted either symet~ically, as in stripes, or in an irregular, but always pleasing, manner. Most of them have, round their basis, a blue or white streak, broader or narrower, which produces a sort of ring. When many of these animals are put together at the bottom of a flattish and wide vessel, the whole appears as a bed of Anemonies. The Sea-Anemonies of the second species are pretty nearly shaped out as those of the first, but they are much larger. I have some by me, kept in sea corps ou de leurs membres s'augmente quelquefois considerablement aux depends des autres. Les figures et le detail des observations supleeront a ce qui manque ici. Quant a leurs couleurs elles varient etonnenment; toutes les nuances de pourpre, de verd, de brun, de violet y sont employees et combinees. Un grand nombre sont partout d'une meme couleur, d'autres ont des taches simetriquement rangees formant des rayes, ou meme distribuees irregulierement, mais toujours d'une maniere agreable. Presque toutes ont autour de leur base une bande bleue ou blanche, plus ou moins etroite, qui y forme une bordure. Lorsqu'on en a beaucoup d'ouvertes dans le fond d'un vase plat et large, il semble d'un parterre d'anemones. Les Anemones de Mer de la seconde espece sont a peu pres formees comme celles de la premiere, mais elles sont beaucoup plus grandes. J'en conserve dans l'eau de mer, dont les membres [367] sea water, which are eighteen or twenty inches in circumference. Their cloak or outward skin is rough like shagreen, or full of little knobs. See Tab. XVI. fig. 10. and Tab. XVII. fig. 11. and 12. where they are shewn in the natural size. They remain in the sand, sticking to the loose stones in it, and stretch out their limbs to the top, in order to lay hold of their prey, as soon as it touches the superficies of the sand. The flower of poppies is said to be the plague and distress of painters, to represent exactly the variety and brilliancy of its colours; the same may be said of the Sea-Anemonies of this larger species. The purest white, carmine, and ultramarine, would hardly be bright enough to paint them properly. The limbs of some of them are of a moderate or dim colour, at the same time that the cloak is made up of the brightest colours. The third species seems to deviate a little more from the second, than this from the first. Its body, not unlike for shape and colour to the stalk of a mushmembres etendus forment une circonference de 18 a 20 pouces; leur robe (la peau exterieure) est chagrinee ou remplie de boutons; voyez la Pl. XVI. Fig. 10. & XVII. Fig. 11. 12. ou elles sont representees de grandeur naturelle et moienne. Elles restent dans le sable, atachees a des cailloux, et etendent leurs membres a la superficie pour saisir la proye qui les touche. S'il est vrai que les tetes de pavots fassent le desespoir des peintres par la variete et l'eclat de leurs couleurs, on pourroit en dire autant des Anemones de Mer de cette grande espece; le beau blanc, le carmin, l'outremer, sufiroient a peine. Quelques unes ont les membres d'une couleur douce et eteinte, tandis que la robe offre des couleurs riches et fort hautes. La troisieme espece semble s'ecarter un peu plus de la seconde que celle ci de la premiere; elle est aussi dans le sable, son corps [368] mushroom, is terminated in its lower part by a basis, which the animal fixes to the stones in the sand, whilst, by lengthening out its body, it affords means to the superior part, where the limbs and the mouth are placed, of spreading out and opening themselves at the surface of the sand. See fig. 4. This species has some slight variety in point of shape, and still more of colour. Some have their limbs of a bright white, or fine violet colour; others of an ivory white. Some are found of the same sort of yellow with the inside of melons. Some are greenish, or of a fine brown, with the middle white, which gives them a likeness to Auriculas. Others again have their limbs of a greyish tint, somewhat like the inside of a broken piece of silver; or alternately mixed with black and white in the manner of the quills of a porcupine. I shall now proceed to the particular experiments and discoveries I have made hitherto upon the three species. corps assez semblable pour la forme et pour la couleur au pedicule d'un champignon, est termine a la partie inferieure par une base que l'animal atache aux cailloux dans le sable, tandis que le corps en s'allongeant permet a la partie superieure, ou font les membres et la bouche de s'ouvrir a la superficie, Fig. 4. Cette espece a quelques legeres varietes de forme et encore plus de couleur; les unes ont les membres d'un beau blanc, ou d'un beau violet, d'autres couleur d'ivoire; il s'en trouve qui les ont couleur de chair de melon jaune; plusieurs sont verdatres ou d'un beau brun avec un milieu blanc qui leur donne de la ressemblance avec la fleur qu'on nomme oreille d'ours; d'autres ont les membres gris d'argent casse, ou mele alternativement de blanc et de noir, comme les piquans d'un porc epic. Passons au detail des experiences et des decouvertes que j'ai faites jusqu'ici sur ces trois especes. En justifiant ce que [369] species. In justifying what I laid down at first, they will convince us more and more what little progress has been made in the knowledge or history of Reproductions; how far the resources and powers of nature may extend; the uncertainty of our conjectures both upon what really constitutes the animal, and the exact moment that it passes from life to death. What an extensive field does the study of animal aeconomy, that most beautiful and useful part of physic, offer still to our investigation! At the same time that it encreases our knowledge in that branch, which is looked upon as the basis of the art of healing, it may help us to find out whether our sea-flowers are destructive to crabs and other crustaceous fish, to muscles, &c. and whether they themselves might not prove a palatable and useful food. These researches might also afford proofs that the structure of those animals which are looked upon as little deserving of our attention, are still, some que j'ai etabli au commencement, elles pourront faire entrevoir combien nous sommes peu avances dans l'histoire des reproductions; quelles peuvent etre les ressources et les forces de la nature; l'incertitude de nos conjectures sur ce qui constitue l'animal, et sur le moment precis ou il passe de l'etat de vie a l'etat de mort. Quel vaste champ nous offre encore a cultiver l'etude de l'aeconomie animale! cet objet le plus beau et le plus utile que la physique nous presente, est propre en meme temps a augmenter la somme de nos connoissances dans cette partie qu'on regarde avec raison comme la base de l'art de guerir; a determiner si ces animaux detruisent les cancres et autres crustaces, les moules, &c. ou s'ils ne pourroient pas devenir eux memes un mets recherche et delicat; a nous convaincre que la structure des animaux qu'on juge peu dignes d'attention, 2 [370] some by their complicate make, and others by their very simplicity, more incomprehensible than larger and better-known animals. It may in short keep up our admiration, by observing how the omnipotence of the Creator shines forth even in creatures, which, like these, seem produced to be trampled upon, or at best to be perceived by chance. What first offered itself to my observations, is what distinguishes these animals from plants, I mean progressive motion, by the help of which they can shift their spot; the other determinate motions, by which they are enabled to lay hold of their prey; the means they make use of to defend themselves; their deglutition, digestion, evacuations, and lastly the propagation of their species, &c. What little I have had an opportunity to see of those functions, appears to me sufficient to place these creatures in the class of spontaneous animals, rather than in the dark indeterminate list of zoophytes. In d'attention, offre dans les uns par sa complication, dans les autres par sa simplicite, quelque chose de plus incomprehensible que celle des animaux plus grands et plus connus; enfin a soutenir notre admiration en nous faisant observer combien la grandeur de Dieu eclate jusque dans les creatures qui semblent comme celles-ci destinees a etre foulees aux pieds, ou a n'etre apercues que par hazard. Ce que j'ai du d'abord observer, c'est ce qui distingue ces animaux des plantes, comme le mouvement progressif a l'aide duquel ils changent de place, les autres mouvemens determines par lesquels ils saisissent la proye, les moyens qu'ils employent pour se defendre, la deglutition, la digestion, la dejection, la propagation de l'espece, &c. le peu que j'en ai vu m'a paru suffisant pour leur assigner une place dans le regne animal, et pour les tirer du genre obscur et indetermine des zoophites. Au [371] In May 1772, I clipped all the limbs of a purple Anemone of the first species. Soon after, these limbs began to bud out again. The 30th of July, they were clipped a second time, and grew again in less than a month. Having cut them a third time, they had a third shooting out. The same experiment upon a green Anemone had the like success. It seems these reproductions might extend as far, or be as often repeated as patience and curiosity would admit. Several experiments have convinced me that one single limb of these Anemonies being cut off, retains a power to fasten itself to any small body that is brought near it, either by its end, or by the side towards the end, but not by that part where the clipping was made. This induces me to think that the effect is produced by suction rather than by any glutinous matter, which one might suppose ouzes out at the pores. This limb, after being cut off, has also a power to stretch or contract itself alternately. July Au mois de Mai 1772, je coupai tous les membres a une anemone pourpre de la premiere espece. En peu de temps ces membres repousserent. Le 30 Juillet ils furent coupes de nouveau, et se reproduisirent en moins d'un mois. Ayant ete coupes une troisieme sois ils ont encore repousse. Une anemone verte a donne le meme resultat. Il paroit que ces reproductions iroient aussi loin qu'on auroit la curiosite ou la patience de les pousser. Plusieurs experiences m'ont appris que ~ un seul membre retranche de ces animaux, conserve pendant plusieurs jours la faculte de s'attacher aux corps qu'on lui presente, soit par le bout, ou par le cote vers le bout, et non par la partie coupee; ce qui m'a porte a croire que cet effet pouvoit etre produit par la suction plutot que par la glu qu'on soupconneroit exuder des pores. Ce membre coupe se contracte et se dilate aussi alternativement. VOL. LXIII. C c c Le [372] July the 12th I cut one of these purple Anemonies through the body, rather nearer the basis. This part remained adhering to the side of the vessel in which it was; and for several days, made various motions. At last, it got loose, and then fastened in another place. The 27th it began again to move about, till the end of August, when it became as it were lifeless, grew very flabby, and had often an offensive smell. I concluded it to be dead; but, as it did not lose its shape, I resolved to keep it, and to shift it every day into some fresh sea-water. From time to time, I thought it had some sort of motion, and in the beginning of November these motions became more perceptible. It shifted its position, when contrary to its natural state. November the 28th, this stump climbed up to the top of the vessel. I then began to perceive some new limbs growing out. January 13, 14, Le~ 12. Juillet je coupai par la moitie du corps et meme plus proche de la base une anemone pourpre. Cette base resta attachee aux parois du vase, et fit pendant plusieurs jours differentes marches, apres lesquelles elle se detacha, et s'attacha de nouveau. Le 27 elle recommenca ses courses jusqu'a la fin d'Aoust, ou elle cessa de donner sensiblement des signes de vie, devint d'une mollesse extreme, et repandit meme a plusieurs reprises une mauvaise odeur: je la jugeois morte; cependant comme elle ne se deformoit point, je pris la resolution de la garder, et de lui procurer tous les jours de nouvelle eau de mer. Je crus appercevoir de loin a loin quelques mouvemens. Au commencement de Novembre, ses mouvemens devinrent plus sensibles, et jusqu'a se retourner, quand elle etoit dans une position contraire a celle qui lui est naturelle. Le 28 Novembre elle grimpa au haut du vase, alors je crus appercevoir des membres renaissans. Les 13, 14, et 15 Janvier, elle a marche de nouveau [373] 14, and 15, 1773, it again walked about; and on the 16th, seeing these growing new limbs, I offered them some bits of muscles, which however were neither eat, nor even laid hold of. That same day, after several motions in various directions, it loosened its adhesion, and remained motionless and flabby, but without any bad smell. till the beginning of February, when it appeared adhering, but weakly, to the bottom of the vase. The 16th, after several motions, it climbed up to the top, where it remained till the 11th of March, and then loosened its hold. These alternate stations and motions lasted till the 8th of April, without my seeing any plain and full re-production. However the animal continues to grow stronger and thicker. I own I was very wrong to throw away, a few days after the operation, the upper part that had been cut off. But I did not foresee what would happen. November nouveau. Le 16 appercevant ces apparences de membres je leur presentai de petits morceaux de moule, qu'elle n'a ni manges ni retenus. Ce meme jour, apres plusieurs mouvemens en divers sens, elle s'est detachee et a reste ainsi molle et immobile jusqu'au commencement de Fevrier, sans pourtant porter de mauvaise odeur; ensuit eelle a paru foiblement attachee au fond du vase; elle a monte au haut le 16, apres plusieurs mouvemens, ou elle a reste jusqu'au 11 Mars, qu'elle se detacha. Ces alternatives et ces mouvemens ont dure jusqu'aujourdhui 8 Avril, sans que je voye paroitre de reproduction reelle; cependant elle continue de se fortifier et devient de plus en plus epaisse. Je jettai sans doute fort mal a propos des les premiers jours la partie retranchee; pouvois-je prevoir ce qui devoit arriver. C c c 2 Le [374] November the 9th, 1772, I clipped a brown Anemone through the body. The basis, together with that part of the stump which was left to it, shrunk up, as figure 5. shews, and remained motionless where it was at first, till January 13, when it shifted its place. The 15th, I very distinctly perceived two rows of limbs growing out of the part where the section was made, fig. 6. and the animal moved along. The next day I offered it bits of muscles, which it laid hold of and ate. These growing limbs were, at first, of a sullied white, they grew browner and browner every day, and are at present of the same colour with the coat of the animal. They are pretty near as large as they were before the operation; but I have not perceived, as yet, some of those small fine blue knobs, that are to be seen round the rim or upper knurl of the coat, as may be seen in figure 2. As to Le 9 Novembre je coupai par la moitie du corps une anemone brune; la base avec la partie du tronc qui lui restoit se retira sur elle meme, comme la represente la figure 5; elle resta immobile au lieu ou elle etoit attachee jusqu'au 13 Janvier qu'elle marcha. Le 15 j'apperceus tres distinctement deux rangs de membres renaissans de la section meme, figure 6, et l'animal marchoit. Le lendemain je lui presentai des morceaux de moule; il les saisit et les mangea. Dabord ces membres renaissans etoient d'un blanc sale; mais peu a peu ils ont bruni et approchent maintenant de la couleur de la robe de l'animal. Il s'en faut tres peu qu'ils n'ayent la meme grandeur qu'ils avoient auparavant; je n'ai cependant point encore vu paroitre certains petits globes d'un beau bleu engages dans le tour du bourlet ou bord superieur de la robe, comme on peut voir par la figure 2: quant a la partie retranchee, representee par [375] to the part cut off, seen in figure 7, which consists of about half the body, and wherein the limbs and mouth are placed, I offered it, after the operation was performed, that brown part of a muscle, by the help of which it moves along, and whence the beard spreads out. This bit, which is not easily digested by Sea-Anemonies, was directly snapped up by the limbs. They drew it to the mouth, which lengthened itself out to catch it, and swallowed it down. But, as the body was wanting to receive it, the bit came out at the opposite end, just as a man's head, being cut off, would let out, at the neck, the bit taken in at the mouth. I offered it a second time, and the animal swallowed it again; but threw it up at the mouth the next day. I still keep that part of the Anemone, which daily grows stronger and stronger, and which appears to me to suck in the bits of muscles I offer it. The limbs lay hold of them, and the mouth takes them in, either whole or in part, and throws them up par la fig. 7. qui comprend environ la moitie du corps, ou se trouvent les membres et la bouche, je lui presentai peu apres l'operation un morceau de moule ou etoit ce membre brun qui lui sert a se trainer, et ou est attache sa filiere, morceau que les anemones de mer ont peine a digerer; les membres le saisirent, l'approcherent de la bouche, la bouche meme s'allongea pour le recevoir, et il fut avale: mais comme il n'y avoit point de corps entier pour le recevoir, il sortit par l'autre extremite, comme une tete tranchee qui avaleroit pour rendre par le col. Je la lui presentai de nouveau, elle l'avala une seconde fois et la rendit par la bouche le lendemain. Je garde encore cette partie qui se fortifie chaque jour et me paroit sucer les morceaux de moule que je lui presente; les membres les embrassent, la bouche les recoit en tout ou en partie, et me les rend fort alteres, ~ [376] up a good deal altered; and pretty often these bits go through as they did the first time. Some persons, who were eye-witnesses of these particulars, were of opinion that, from the remains of organization and habit, this part of the animal still endeavoured to gratify a natural want, though no longer subsisting; but I am inclined to think that it still exists. In my opinion the part is nourished by means of suckers, of which I suspect it to be full, both inwardly and outwardly. I am in expectation to have my conjecture confirmed, by experience, and by it to be enabled to convince other people. The microscope seems to have alredy corroborated my notion upon this subject. When the limbs of these Anemonies, especially those of the second species, are touched, the person's fingers are felt to adhere and strongly to stick to the limbs. I have therefore let both these, and several other species of these animals, fasten several times upon the fingers of one of my hands, in order to see whether any glutinous matter should remain upon them; but I never souvent ils passent d'outre en outre comme la premiere fois. Ceux qui en ont ete temoins pensoient que, par un reste d'organization et d'habitude, cette partie de l'animal cherchoit encore a satisfaire un besoin qui n'existoit plus; pour moi je suis porte a croire que ce besoin existe, que la partie peut se nourrir par des sucoirs dont je soupconne qu'elle est remplie interieurement et exterieurement, et j'attens de l'experience ce qui me manque pour le prouver aux autres. Le microscope m'a deja paru fortifier mon sentiment; lorsqu'on touche les membres des anemones entr' autres de la seconde espece, on sent ses doigts fortement attaches a ces membres. Je les ai donc laisses s'attacher a plusieurs reprises et sur plusieurs anemones pour voir s'il ne resteroit pas a mes doigts quelque sorte de glu, et je n'y en ai jamais [377] never perceived any; and by applying the fingers of that hand to the other, I perceived no adhesion. I have, for some days past, clipped several Anemonies of the first species, diametrically and perpendicularly to the basis. They have stood the operation extremely well. Time will teach us what the result of these operations will be. The 5th of February last, I placed a glass vessel, exposed to the morning frost, with two Anemonies, the one brown the other purple, which stuck to the sides of it towards the top. The surface of the water froze, and remained frozen the whole day: in the night-time, the thickness of the ice increased to such a degree, that there remained but a little water not frozen in the bottom of the glass. The Anemonies were thus inclosed in a pretty strong piece of ice, except the basis, which remained adhering to the bottom. The glass was next day placed near the fire, in order to melt the ice by degrees, and when jamais appercu: j'ai porte ces doigts sur mon autre main, et il ne s'en est suivi aucune adherence. J'ai coupe depuis plusieurs jours des anemones de la premiere espece diametralement et perpendiculairement a leur base, elles ont soutenu l'operation fort bien; le temps nous en devoiler~a les resultats. Le 5 Fevrier dernier au matin j'exposai a la gelee un vase de verre contenant deux anemones, l'une brune, l'autre pourpre, attachees aux pa~ois vers le haut du vase: la surface de l'eau se glaca, et resta en cet ~ toute la journee; pendant la nuit l'epaisseur de la glace augmenta tellement qu'il ne restoit qu'un peu d'eau dans le fond, de sorte que de tous cotes excepte la base adherente au verre, mes anemones etoient enfermees dans un fort glacon; le lendemain je mis le verre devant le seu pour faire fondre peu a peu la glace. Quand 5 olle [378] when it began to float, I saw plainly the Anemonies were quite detached from the sides, because their body turned round loose, with the ice, though their basis had remained exactly in the same situation they were in before. Mr. Reaumur's thermometer being in my room, at two degrees above the freezing point, or 0, these animals gave some sign of life; and the 8th, the thermometer being at 3 1/2 they opened; while the Anemonies, which were in other glasses, and had not been exposed to a greater cold than that of one degree above frost, did not open yet; and I generally observed they only opened at 5~ of the thermometer. May it in consequence be supposed that those Anemonies, which had been frozen in the ice, were less affected with a cold at 3 1/2 than the others? March elle devint flotante, j'eus lieu d'apercevoir que les anemones avoient cesse d'etre attachees aux parois du vase par leur base, parcequ'elles tournoient avec la glace, quoique leur base eut absolument demeure dans le meme etat ou elles etoient auparavant. Le thermometre de Mr. de Reaumur etant dans mon cabinet a deux degres de dilatation, ces animaux donnerent quelques signes de vie, et le huit le thermometre etant a 3 1/2 s'ouvrirent tandis que celles des autres vases qui n'avoient point eprouve de froid plus grand qu'un degre de dilatation ne s'ouvroient pas encore. Car j'ai remarque qu'elles ne s'ouvrent, a parler generalement, que lorsque le thermometre parvient a cinq degres. Celles qui ont ete enfermees dans la glace auroient-elles par comparaison trouve la temperature de trois degres et demi plus douce que ne la trouvoient les autres? Le [379] March the 19th, I set upon the fire a glass vessel, with the two animals which I had made use of for the foregoing experiments. A thermometer put into the same glass was at 8~; when it came to 15 and 17, the Anemonies opened themselves a little; but, at 28 and 30, they appeared to be in pain; at 32 they closed themselves up; at 37 one of the two fell off from the sides; upon which I poured in some fresh water, and took the glass from the fire. Soon after they opened, and one of them produced two young ones the next day. In another experiment, the same Anemone which dropped off at 37 degrees, detached itself at 26, and closed up at 28. In a third experiment I shifted, at once, one of these Anemonies from 8~ to 40~, and left it to remain in that heat for five minutes; it appeared to be in pain for several days after, its coat was even affected on one side, but, at Le 19 Mars je placai sur un feu doux un vase de verre, contenant les deux anemones qui m'avoient servi aux experiences precedentes, avec un thermometre plonge dans le meme vase; il etoit a 8 degres de dilatation, lorsqu'il est parvenu a 15 et 17; les anemones se sont un peu ouvertes; mais a 28 et 30, elles ont paru souffrir; a 32 elles se sont fermees; a 37 une des deux s'est detachee des parois; j'ai alors promptement remis de nouvelle eau, et retire le vase du feu, peu apres elles se sont ouvertes et une a donne deux petits le lendemain. Dans une autre experience, la meme anemone qui s'etoit detachee a 37 degres, s'est detachee a 26, et s'est fermee a 28. Dans une troisieme experience, j'ai fait passer subitement une de ces anemones de 8 degres de dilatation a 40; je l'y ai laissee pendant cinq minutes; elle a paru souffrir pendant plusieurs jours, sa robe a meme ete entamee par un cote; mais enfin VOL. LXIII. D d d elle [380] at last it recovered its strength, clung to the sides, climbed up to the top of the glass; and all was well again. I have shifted another Anemone at once from 8~ to 40~: but, instead of leaving it only five minutes, I went on increasing the heat to 46~, in order to observe the effect. The coat appeared to me to swell out a little; at 50~ it still encreased, and the animal died in consequence. I put several Anemonies, some in, and some without, water, under the recipient of an air-pump; and got the quicksilver of the barometer inclosed in it, to come down within an inch of the level. The animals did not seem to perceive the effects of a vacuum, or an air so much rarefied. They remained open, or in whatever state they happened to be when put in, and did not swell out. When the air was let in again, and they were not in the water, I perceived no shrinking at all in any of them. These elle a repris vigueur, s'est attachee, et a gagne le haut du vase; il n'y paroit plus. Du meme point de 8 degres j'ai fait passer subitement une autre anemone a 40, et au lieu de ne l'y laisser que ~inq minutes, j'ai observe ce qui se passeroit en continuant de chauffer; a 46 degres la robe m'a paru se boursoufler un peu; a 50 degres elle l'etoit encore plus, de forte que l'animal en est mort. J'ai mis dans l'eau, et sans eau, sous le recipient d'une machine pneumatique plusieurs anemones, j'ai abaisse le mercure du barometre qui y etoit renferme, jusqu'a un pouce de son niveau. Elles n'ont pas paru s'appercevoir de l'effet du vuide, ou d'un air si fort rarefie: elles ont reste ouvertes, ou comme elles etoient, ne se sont point gonflees, et lorsque j'ai rendu l'air au recipient, et qu'elles n'etoient point dans l'eau je n'ai appercu en elles aucun affaissement. Il [381] These animals can live a whole twelvemonth, and perhaps much longer, without any other food but what they chance to find disseminated in the sea-water. They do not want many motions to procure their food, besides stretching out their limbs, to receive such as comes within their reach; and they remain surrounded with muscles, &c. without laying hold of any of them. I have given Anemonies some of these muscles alive, but with their shells closed, and about six lines in length. They were swallowed in that state; and 40, 50, and 60 hours after, the shells were thrown up at the mouth empty and perfectly cleared, even from the small tendons which connect the fish to its shells. The Anemonies swallow and digest small fish, and bits of larger fish, or of raw meat, when offered to them. When they cannot digest some of the food, they throw it up at the mouth, either whole or partly dissolved into Il paroit que ces animaux peuvent vivre pendant une annee, et peut-etre beaucoup plus, sans autre nouriture que celle qu'ils trouvent disseminee dans l'eau de la mer; qu'ils ne font pas beaucoup d'autres mouvemens pour s'en procurer d'autre que celui d'etendre leurs membres pour recevoir celle qui vient d'elle meme y toucher: car ils restent environnes de moules, &c. sans s'en emparer. Je leur en ai donne de 6 lignes de longueur vivantes et fermees, les anemones les ont avalees en cet etat, et 40, 50, ou 60 heures apres, elles m'ont rendu par la bouche les deux coquilles vuides et parfaitement nettoyees, meme des petits tendons qui attachent le poisson aux deux coquilles. Elles avalent et digerent des petits poissons, et des morceaux de poisson ou de viande fraiche que je leur presente. Lorsqu'elles ne peuvent digerer quelque chose, elles le renD d d 2 dent [382] into a viscous liquor, which may in some measure be looked upon as their excrements. They void by the same way, and in the same manner, various parts of a white and brown substance, and small bodies are thrown out at the extremity of the limbs, and more sensibly in the second species. There also ouzes out of their body a sort of excrementitious matter, which by coagulating produces round them a sort of girdle. These animals are known to be viviparous. Several of them have brought forth, even in my hand, 8, 10, and 12 young ones. Some, though almost imperceptible, as in fig. 8, have nevertheless the power of clinging, and are endowed with two rows of limbs, which they open immediately upon their birth, in order to catch their prey, which they swallow afterwards. I have kept some for ten months. They have appeared to me not to have increased in their bulk, more than twice dent par la bouche ou en entier ou reduit en partie en une espece de glaire qu'on peut regarder comme leurs excremens, quoiqu'on leur voie rendre aussi par la meme voye differentes parties de matiere blanche ou brune, et de petits corps par le bout de leurs membres, ce qui est plus sensible dans la seconde espece. Il sort ausi de leur corps une sorte d'humeur excrementitielle, qui forme tout autour en se coagulant comme une espece de ceinture. Ou sait que ces animaux sont vivipares; plusieurs m'ont donne, meme dans ma main 8, 10 et 12 petits, les uns presqu'imperceptibles, figure 8, n'en ont pas moins la faculte de s'attacher, et ont un ou deux rangs de membres qu'ils ouvrent aussitot apres leur naissance pour saisir la proye qu'ils avalent ensuite; j'en ai garde pendant dix mois; ils ne m'ont paru augmenter en grosseur que du double de leur diametre. Il est 5 vrai [383] twice the diameter of their size. Indeed I fed them sparingly; the others are grown as big as half a green pea. Fig. 9. The Sea-Anemonies have a progressive motion; which, though slow, is performed in every direction, with a degree of facility, and effected by means of muscles, which cross one another at right angles. I cannot as yet display the mechanism of these muscles, because the last mutilations I was obliged to make discompose the conjectures that some men of learning have published upon this subject; and I have not sufficiently fixed my thoughts in consequence of my observations. These animals, being put into fresh water, die very soon after, and whatever their colour be when they are put in, they soon turn pale, and remain pretty near in the same position that they were in. Soon after, their coat becomes so flabby, that it can very vrai que je leur ai donne peu de nouriture; les autres sont gros comme la moitie d'un pois verd, Fig. 9. Les anemones de mer ont un mouvement progressif, a la verite assez lent, mais qui s'execute pourtant en tous sens avec une sorte de facilite. Il depend de muscles qui se croisent a angles droits; mais je ne puis en developer ici le mechanisme, parceque les dernieres mutilations que j'ai faites deconcertent les conjectures que quelques savans avoient publiees sur ce point, et qu'en consequence je n'ai pu encore fixer mes idees a ce sujet. J'ai mis des anemones de mer dans de l'eau donce, elles y ont peri presqu'aussitot, on les voit palir un peu, de quelque couleur qu'elles soient et demeurer a peu pres dans la meme position qu'elles etoient au moment qu'on les y a plongees. Peu de temps apres, leur robe devient si facile a entamer, qu'un pein[384] very easily be stripped off in shreds. For this reason, when I boiled them, I always made use of seawater. I have not been able hitherto to perceive any eyes in these creatures; and yet they seem to be affected by the light. I have had opportunities to satisfy myself on this subject at every hour of the night. For by holding up a lighted candle over glasses, which contained a great number of them, but at such a distance as not to communicate any heat, I could see them, either by degrees, or even suddenly, close up, and not spread out again 'till a while after the light was removed. The same effect was produced upon repeated trials. This, however, admits of some exceptions, viz. when they had fed plentifully, they were slower in shutting themselves up, and even sometimes did not close up at all. The brighter the light let in upon them pinceau l'enleve aisement par lambeaux; c'est pourquoi quand j'en ai fait cuire, j'ai employe de l'eau de mer. Jusqu'ici les anemones ne m'ont point paru avoir d'yeux, elles sont pourtant affectees par la lumiere. J'ai eu occasion de le remarquer a toute heure de la nuit; car en tenant au dessus des vases, qui en contenoient un grand nombre, une bougie allumee de laquelle elles ne pouvoient ressentir aucune chaleur, je les voyois peu a peu quelquefois meme subitement se fermer, et elles ne s'ouvroient de nouveau que lorsque je faisois disparoitre la lumiere pour quelque temps, apres lequel si je la leur presentois, elles se fermoient comme la premiere fois. Ceci a quelques exceptions qui ne detruisent point la loi generale; par exemple, lorsqu'elles ont beaucoup mange elles se ferment moins vite et meme point du tout. Plus la lumiere est vive en proportion de celle dont elles jouissoient au [385] them is, in proportion to the degree of that which they were in before, the more affected do they appear to be by it. Is then the texture of the body of those creatures such, as not, indeed, to receive the impressions of objects, with the same degree of perfection as our eyes do; but, to afford a general organ affected by light, as the bodies of other animals are by feeling? Might not these animals become a fresh supply for our tables; and thereby make amends for the consumption of muscles, on which they feed? In order to try the experiment, I gave some Anemonies, boiled in plain water, to a cat, who devoured readily twenty of them, several of which were of the third species, without any bad effect, and seemed wishful to have more. This induced me to make a further trial, and to get some of them colloped as we do oysters in auparavant, plus elles y paroissent sensibles. Le corps de ces animaux seroit-il donc, je ne dis pas un organe capable de recevoir l'impression des images, avec les conditions necessaires a une sensation aussi parsaite que la procure notre oeuil, mais une espece d'organe general sensible au contact de la lumiere comme le toucher des autres animaux ~ a celui des autres corps? Ces animaux ne pourroient-ils point devenir une nouvelle ressource pour nos tables, et reparer ainsi la perte des moules dont ils se nourrissent? pour m'en assurer, j'en sis donner de bouillis, sans aucun assaisonnement, a un chat, qui en mangea avec avidite vingt, dont plusieurs etoient de la troisieme espece; il n'en parut ressentir aucune incommodite, on jugea meme a son air qu'il en auroit mange d'avantage. Cela me fit desirer d'avoir sur cet objet essentiel une plus grande certitu~e, j'en fis preparer comme on fait les huitres dans ces grands peignes, qu'on nomme coquilles de pelerin, et les ai manges [386] in shells, I swallowed them up myself. Perhaps they may prove still more palatable, dressed in some other manner. However, they may be eat safely. The second species of Sea-Anemonies keeps itself hid more than the first; it is not to be come at but in neap-tides, when the sea recedes farthest, and cannot be so easily observed. With great difficulty are these Anemonies loosened from the stones they adhere to; part of the basis is often left behind, and they are not easily preserved at home. Seeing however some of the individuals that voided muscleshells whole, and still joined together, but empty, I found out the way to feed them. Crab shells, about the size of a hen's egg, are likewise discharged whole; and upon offering them some live-ones, I found that they swallowed them down, and voided the remains sucked dry in about twenty hours. I cut open some of this second species, which I could not loosen from the stones, and among them I found one manges; peutetre une autre preparation leur conviendroit-elle mieux, toujours est-il certain qu'on en peut manger. La seconde espece d'anemones de mer plus cachee que la premiere, et qu'on ne trouve que dans les grandes marees, ou la mer se retire plus loin, est aussi plus difficile a observer; on a peine a la detacher des cailloux sans y laisser une partie de sa base, et a la conserver chez soi. C'est en observant quelques individus de cette espece et en appercevant qu'ils rendoient des coquilles de moules entieres, jointes ensemble et vuides, que j'ai appris de quelle maniere je devois nourrir mes anemones. Je leur ai vu meme rendre des cancres entiers grands comme la circonference d'un oeuf de poule, je leur en presentai de vivans qu'elles avalerent et qu'elles m'ont rendus morts, et suces environ vingt heures apres. J'en ai ouvert que je ne pouvois detacher des cailloux, parmi lesquelles j'en trouvai [387] one that had swallowed an Anemone of the third species; but this had received no harm. For, having put it into some sea-water, it opened and spread as usual. I have offered them several of the same species, which they swallowed down; but threw up again alive within eight, ten, or twelve hours, or even later. Is then a live Anemone an undigestable body for another? On the 21st of June, 1772, having nicked the instant, that an individual of the third species was stretching out, as expressed in Fig. 13, I snipped off at once with sharp scissars, the whole upper part where the limbs and mouth are placed. It was with great satisfaction that, eight days after, I perceived new limbs growing out, as in Fig. 15. The third of July, the animal began to eat some bits of muscles; and towards the middle of the month, the upper part was so completely formed, that it might easily trouvai une qui avoit avale une anemone de la troisieme espece qui n'en avoit souffert aucune alteration; car l'ayant mise dans l'eau de mer, elle s'ouvrit comme a l'ordinaire. Je leur en ai presente plusieurs, elles les ont rejettees en vie au bout de huit dix ou douze heures, et meme plus tard. Une anemone en vie seroit-elle donc un corps indigeste pour une autre anemone? Le 21 Juin ayant saisi l'instant ou une des anemones de la troisieme espece etoit allongee, comme dans la figure 13, j'en retranchai subitement, avec de bons ciseaux, toute la partie superieure ou sont les membres et la bouche. Avec quelle satisfaction n'ai-je pas vu au bout de huit jours de nouveaux membres renaissans figure 15. Le trois Juillet l'anemone commenca a manger des morceaux de moule, et vers la moitie du meme mois, la partie superieure etoit si bien reproduite, V O L. LXIII. E e e qu'on [388] easily have been mistaken for one of its unclipped neighbours, had there been many in the glass. It is neither the row of the centrical or inner limbs, nor the most outward, which first bud out, but the intermediate ones. The part, which had been clipped off, gave signs of sensibility to the 17th of July, contracting and dilating itself, in the same manner as a whole Anemone; but it was much smaller than before the operation. This experiment has been repeated by clipping, on the 11th of July, the whole upper part and one third of the body of another Anemone. New limbs began to shoot out the 21st. There were two rows of them the 25th; and on the 3d of August, four very distinct and well shaped, which caught and kept fast the food that was offered the animal. The mouth itself was sufficiently well formed to take in several times bits of muscles. qu'on auroit aisement confondu l'anemone avec ses voisines, si elles eussent ete en grande quantite dans le meme vase. Ce ne sont ni les rangs des membres les plus voisins du centre, ni ceux qui en sont les plus eloignes qui paroissent les premiers dans la reproduction, mais les intermediaires. La partie qui avoit ete retranchee a donne jusqu'au dixsept Juillet des marques de sensibilite, se contractant et se dilatant de la meme maniere que le fait l'anemone: mais elle etoit beaucoup plus petite qu'avant d'etre retranchee. Cette experience singuliere a ete repetee en coupant le onze Juillet toute la partie superieure et un tiers de la longueur du corps d'une autre anemone. Il reparut de nouveaux membres le vingt-un; le vingt-cinq elle en avoit deux rangs, le trois Aoust quatre bien formes et qui retenoient les corps qu'on lui presentoit, lorsqu'ils e~toient propers a la nourriture: la bouche meme commencoit a et~re assez bien formee pour que l'animal ait mange plusieurs fois de [389] muscles. On the 11th, I perceived in the limbs the faint alternate marks of ivory white and black, and soon after, there scarcely appeared any sign of the operation having been performed. Being induced to try further experiments, on the 7th of August, I clipped an Anemone across the body. Like the others, it moved or wriggled a little at first: but, I did not perceive any new limbs growing till towards the end of the month. During that time, it continued in such a state as gave but little hopes of its doing well again. Two rows of limbs appeared at last, and the insect recovered its strength. There was on the 9th of September a third row of limbs, and the mouth appeared to be shaped out and formed; yet the Anemone neither ate nor kept the bits of muscles I have it. A fourth row was growing out on the 19th, which gathered strength by degrees; so that on the des morceaux de moule. Le onze j'apercus dans les membres les petites alternatives de blanc d'ivoire, et de noir; et peu apres il etoit difficile de s'appercevoir qu'elle eut souffert quelque alteration. Tente de pousser la chose plus loin, le sept Aoust je coupai par la moitie du corps une anemone. Elle se donna d'abord comme les autres quelques mouvemens, mais ce ne fut que vers la fin du mois que j'observai de nouveaux membres; pendant cet intervale elle fut dans un etat qui laissoit peu d'espoir, enfin deux rangs de membres parurent et l'animal reprit vigueur. Le neuf Septembre il y avoit un troisieme rang de membres, et la bouche paroissoit formee; l'anemone cependant ne mangeoit ni ne retenoit les morceaux de moule qui lui etoient presentes: le dixneuf on apercut un quatrieme rang de membres, qui peu a peu se sortifia, de maniere que le trois E e e 2 Octobre [390] the 3d of October it began to eat, and in a short time became a compleat animal. On September the 22d, the upper part appeared to me to be withering away. But we shall soon see how much I have reason to think I was mistaken. I cut another Anemone, of the same species, across the middle of the body, in such a manner as that the two parts were only left hanging together by one fourth part of the diameter. My design was, to try whether nature would produce limbs on the edge of the lower half-part, in the same manner as when the body is cut quite asunder; or, whether the wound, though very deep, would heal up again. Nature was not wanting to itself; for, notwithstanding the largeness of the incision, the two severed parts were joined up together, and in a few days the wound was healed Octobre l'anemone mangea et devint en peu de temps un animal complet. Le partie superieure me parut perir le vingt deux Septembre; mais on verra combien j'ai lieu de croire que je me suis trompe. J'ai encore coupe par la moitie du corps une anemone de certe espece, de maniere que les deux parties ne tenoient plus l'une a l'autre que par un quart du diametre du corps de l'animal. J'avois envie de voir si la Nature ne feroit pas naitre des membres au cote coupe de la partie inferieure, comme lorsque la superieure en est totalement separee, ou si la playe quoique fort grande se consolideroit. La Nature ne s'est point trompee; malgre la grandeur de l'incision les deux parties se sont rapprochees, et au bout de quelques jours la playe [391] healed up. The animal did not even seem to have suffered so much as one might have been apt to expect. I have been witness to a fact remarkable enough to be inserted here. Having sliced a bit of fish, I offered one end of it to an Anemone, whose limbs are of the melon-yellow colour, and the other end to a grey Anemone, whose superior part had been re-produced after it had been cut off. The two insects, which were adhering pretty near one another at the bottom of the glass, directly seized their prey with their arms; but the yellow one happened to lay hold of the larger share of the slice. Each swallowed on, by the respective ends, till at last each other's mouth came within contact. The grey one seemed, at first, to get the better; but the other soon recovered her share, lost it again, and again recovered it. These alternate victories lasted about three hours; and playe etoit consolidee. L'animal n'en a pas meme paru souffrir autant qu'on l'auroit imagine. Jai ete temoin d'un fait assez singulier pour qu'il trouve place ici. Ayant coupe un morceau de poisson en forme d'aiguillette, je le presentai par un bout a une anemone, dont les membres sont couleur de chair de melon, et de l'autre bout a une anemone grise, dont la partie superieure s'etoit reproduite apres avoir ete coupee. Mes deux anemones attachees au fond du vase assez pres l'une de l'autre saisirent la proye avec leurs membres; mais l'anemone jaune eut lieu d'en embrasser une plus grande partie. L'une et l'autre avalerent le bout qu'elles tenoient et continuerent d'avaler jusqu'a se trouver bouche a bouche. La grise me parut avoir l'avantage; peu apres il lui fut dispute, elle le recouvra, puis le laissa echaper, ensuite le reprit. Ces alternatives ayant dure pendant trois heures, je vis [392] and there was a time, during which the yellow Anemone was near being worsted; till at last, the grey one losing hold of her end of the slice, the other carried off the prize. Yet, as she sucked in but slowly, the grey one ventured with her mouth upon a last tug at her end, still in sight, which she had slipped; but this fresh effort proved fruitless: the yellow champion gave a last pull, and swallowed down the whole. During this whole strife, the two parties did not seem to be animated by any other passion than that of snatching the slice of fish from one another; and though the two animals continued afterwards to remain neighbours, they lived very quiet and peaceable together. These animals are sometimes very voracious. Could it be believed that the same creature, that can continue in pretty good plight for a whole twelvemonth, and perhaps longer, without taking in any other food, besides what may vis un moment ou les affaires de la jaune paroissoient aller assez mal, lorsqu'enfin la victoire se declara pour elle: la grise lacha le bout. Comme la jaune n'avaloit pas tres vite, la grise eut le temps de revenir a la charge; elle saisit de nouveau par la bouche le bout, qu'elle venoit d'abandonner, mais ce fut inutilement; la jaune fit un nouvel effort, et le morceau fut avale. Il ne parut dans ce combat singulier d'autres efforts que ceux qui tendoient a s'entre arracher la proye, et depuis les deux anemones toujours voisines ont vecu aussi paisiblement qu'auparavant. Cependant les anemones sont quelquesois tres avides. Croiroit-on que cet animal, qui peut vivre en assez bon etat pendant une annee, et peut-etre plus, sans prendre d'autre nourriture que celle qu'il trouve disseminee dans l'eau [393] may be disseminated in the sea water, and does not seem very active to lay hold of it's prey, but rather waits patiently till chance throws it within reach of its limbs; that this animal should still be so greedy as to gulp down two whole muscles, I gave one of them by piece-meal, and burst the next day with indigestion, when it has a power of throwing up so easily what it has swallowed down? This was the case with an Anemone of the third species, and of a middle size, which had been fished lately. On the 8th of October, the same Sea-Anemonies (of which I had clipped out the upper part with the mouth and limbs, instead of which new ones were re-produced, perfect enough to enable them to eat) were divided a second time, and again renewed, so as not to be distinguished from those which had undergone no operation. More than l'eau de la mer, et qui ne paroit pas se donner de gran~s mouvemens pour attraper la proye qui l'environne, qui au contraire attend patiemment que le hazard la fasse tomber entre ses membres, soit assez glouton pour avaler en deux heures la valeur de deux grosses moules, qu'on lui presente par morceaux et crever d'indigestion le lendemain; tandis qu'il peut rendre aisement ce qu'il avale? C'est ce qui est arrive a une anemone de la troisieme espece et de moyenne grosseur, qui etoit recemment pechee. Le huit Octobre les memes anemones de mer, dont j'avois retranche la moitie du corps ou se trouvent les membres et la bouche, et auxquelles toutes ces parties s'etoient reproduites, jusqu'a leur permettre de manger, ont e e coupees de nouveau et ont repousse pour la seconde fois si bien, qu'il n'est plus possible de les distinguer de celles qui n'ont souffert aucune a~5 teration [394] than that, having taken particular care to feed one of these halves clipped for the second time, I saw it grow stronger and stronger every day, and perform with equal facility the same functions as any other compleat original Anemone. The only difference or exception is, that its basis is not yet perfect enough, as to enable the animal to adhere or fix itself to the glass; I make no doubt however, but what this new Anemone will, in a short time, acquire the only powers yet wanting, to render it a perfect one; see fig. 16 and 17. Might not one ask, upon all these facts, what is become of the original animal? is it that which continued adhering by its basis to the glass? or is it the upper half? Are there animals among which an individual is not a simple being? There oozes habitually out of these insects an excrementitious humour, which thickens round their body. At periodical times it issues out in a greater quantity, and assumes then a vermiteration. Il y a plus, ayant pris soin de nourrir une des parties retranchees, par la seconde coupe, je l'ai vue se fortifier de jour en jour; et faire avec le meme aisance toutes les fonctions de l'anemone parfaite, excepte que la base n'est point encore en etat de s'attacher, mais elle s'elargit et je ne doute point par les progres que je lui vois faire que la nouvelle anemone n'aquiere dans peu le seul point qui lui manque, pour arriver a l'etat parfait, voyez les figures 16 et 17. Ne pourroit-on pas demander maintenant qu'est devenu le premier animal? est-ce celui qui a ete retranche, est-ce l'autre? y auroit-il donc des animaux ou un invidu ne seroit point un etre simple? Il sort habituellement du corps de ces animaux une humeur excrementitielle qui s'epaissit; mais elle en sort aussi periodiquement en plus grande abondance, et y prend alors une forme 3 [395] cular appearance. During that period, the Anemone seems to be sickly; but afterwards recovers its strength. It is upon this species that I had particular opportunities of observing, that when, by cutting, there remains but the basis, and a short stump of the body; the animal is equally, if not more, affected by the light, than before the operation. The same effect is produced upon the part where the mouth and limbs are. I may perhaps be taxed with cruelty, with regard to these insects. But, I believe, I shall soon be absolved of the charge, when it is considered what favourable effects my experiments have had upon the Anemonies which have been the subject of them; as I have not only extended their existence, but likewise renewed their youth; and this sure is no small advantage. What forme vermiculee; pendant ce temps l'anemone paroit malade, mais apres elle reprend une nouvelle vigueur. C'est particulierement sur cette espece que j'ai eu lieu d'aper~evoir que lors meme qu'il ne reste a ces animaux que la base et un tronc assez court, ils sont autant et plus affectes par la lum~ere, qu'avant d'etre mutiles. Il en est de meme de la partie, ou sont les membres et la bouche. On pourroit etre tente de m'accuser de cruaute envers ces animaux, mais si l'on fait attention aux effets qu'ont produit mes experiences, ou soupconnera aisement que plusieurs ne peuvent que ~e ~eliciter d'en avoir ete l'objet; car non seulement j'ar etendu leur etre, mais probablement je les ai rajeunis, ce qui n'est pas un petit avantage. VOL. LXIII. F f f Ce [396] What I have mentioned of the effects of fresh water upon the first species of Sea-Anemonies, of the colour of the re-produced limbs, of their way of swallowing whole live muscles, &c. must be likewise understood of, and applied to this third species; and, in many respects, to the second. I am sensible that many things are still wanting in this paper; but what I have wrote down, is very near all that I can infer from my first observations and experiments, without exposing myself to the necessity of falling back in regard to essential things. P O S TCe que j'ai dit des effets de l'eau douce sur la premiere espece, de la couleur des membres reproduits, de la maniere d'avaler les moules, &c. doit s'appliquer a celle-ci, et en grande partie a la seconde. Je laisse sans doute beaucoup a desirer ici, mais ce qui y est expose est presque tout ce que je puis conclure de mes premieres observations et de mes premieres experiences, sans risquer de me mettre dans la necessite de revenir sur mes pas pour des choses essentielles. P O S T [397] P O S T S C R I P T. Havre de Grace, April 28, 1773. J U S T as I concluded this essay, I found out a fourth species of Sea-Anemonies, of the size of the second, and of an elegant form, having the appearance of a cluster of white or flesh-coloured feathers. These Anemonies are found in oysterbeds, &c. I have observed that there grows or comes out of their body and mouth a sort of threads about the size of a horse-hair, which being examined with a solar microscope of five inches diameter, appear as if made up of a prodigious number of vessels, wherein a liquor is seen to circulate. The largest P O S T S C R I P T U M. Le Havre, 8 Avril, 1773. L O R S Q U E je terminois ce memoire, j'ai decouvert une quatrieme espece d'anemones de mer, grosse comme la seconde, et d'une forme elegante, representant comme un assemblage de panaches blancs ou couleur de chair. On la trouve dans les huitrieres, &c. J'ai remarque qu'il sort de son corps et de sa bouche certains cordons de meme couleur delies comme un crin, lesquels vus au microscope solaire sous un diametre de 5 pouces, paroissent formes d'une quantite innombrable de vaisseaux ou circule une liqueur. Les plus gros F f f 2 s'unissent [398] largest of these unite together, much in the same manner as the optic nerves do in man. Such an organization is doubtless intended for most important purposes. Some young ones of this species, which still adhered to one another by a string of communication, shut themselves up in the same instant, when this string was touched in the middle. As I could not directly contrive a total section of this large species, I tried it upon the young ones; and these shooted out again after the operation; (and so have the old ones done since). I have met with a sort of monster among these Anemonies, viz. one which seemed to inclose or contain three others, two of which were united at their basis, and the third lay, as it were, concealed in the folds. Nature has resources little known to us; it seems sometimes to vary its operations, with an intent, as it were, the more to stimulate our curiosity s'unissent en se rencontrant a peu pres comme les nerss obliques dans l'homme; une telle organisation est sans doute destinee a des usages precieux. Des petits de cette espece, qui e~toient encore adherens l'un a l'autre par un cordon de communication, se fermoient en meme tems lorsque je touchois ce cordon par le milieu. Ne pouvant d'abord soumettre cette grande espece a une section totale, je l'ai essayee sur de jeunes individus, ils ont repousse; (les grands repousseut de me~me). J'ai eu dans cette espece un monstre, c'est-a-dire une anemone qui paroissoit en contenir trois, dont deux opposees par leur base et une troisieme cachee dans les plis. La Nature a des ressources qui nous sont peu connues, et semble quelquefois varier ses procedes a dessein de piquer de plus on plus notre curiosite, et peut-etre de devoiler ses secrets, a ceux [399] riosity, and perhaps to disclose her secrets to those' who are endowed with a degree of sagacity or patience, sufficient to follow and investigate the effects offered to our observations. Amidst the great number of Anemonies of the third species which I have clipped across the body, there have happened to be two, whose lower part has in the usual way shot forth new limbs: but the upper half, where the limbs and mouth were, instead of healing up into a new basis, has produced both another mouth and limbs. Hence an animal was formed, which caught its prey, and fed at both ends in the same time. The Sea-Anemonies of the three first species mentioned before, and perhaps those likewise of the fourth, feed upon those floating transparent animals of a white glassy, or of a blue or purplish hue, called wandering nettles, or sea-jellies. An Anemone of a middle size, of the first and third species, ceux qui ont assez de sagacite, ou meme de patience pour suivre les effets qu'elle nous presente. Dans le nombre considerable d'anemones de la troisieme espece que j'ai coupees par la moitie du corps, il s'en est trouve deux dont la moitie inferieure a repousse de nouveaux membres comme a l'ordinaire: mais la moitie superieure ou etoient les membres et la bouche, au lieu de se consolider et de former une base a la section, y a reproduit des membres et une bouche, de sorte qu'il en a resulte des animaux, qui saisissent la proye, et mangent par les deux bouts en meme temps. Les anemones de mer des trois premieres especes, et peut-etre ceux de la quatrieme, se nourrissent de ces animaux flotans et transparens, le plus souvent de couleur de verre blanc, ou bleux, ou violets, connus sous les noms d'Orties errantes, de gelees de mer, &c. Une anemone de la premiere et de la troisieme espece comme [400] species, such as that represented by Figures 1, and 13, swallows one of these animals of the size of half an orange. All these four species are good to eat. Particular E X P L A N A T I O N of some of the F I G U R E S. Plate XVI. Fig. 14. shews the Anemone of the third species, when shrunk up. One sees round it a ring of sand and broken pieces of shells sticking together by means of the excrementitious humour habitually oozing out of the body of the animal, or out of the little granulated knobs, with which it is covered towards the upper part. This ring is also to be seen in the same Anemone, when lengthened out, as expressed in Fig. 13. Fig. comme celles des figures 1 et 13, avalent un de ces animaux gros comme la moitie d'une moyenne orange. Toutes ces 4 especes d'anemones de mer sont tres bonnes a manger. EXPLICATION de quelques unes des FIGURES. Planche XVI. On voit a la figure 14 une anemone de la troisieme espece, dans son etat de contraction. L'espece de cordon, qui paroit tout autour, est forme de sable et de fragmens de coquillages joints ensemble par cette humeur excrementitielle, qui sort habituellement du corps de l'animal, ou des petits mammelons dont la partie superieure est revetue. Cet anneau s'appercoit aussi dans la meme anemone, lorsqu'elle s'allonge, fig. 13. Dans 4 [401] Fig. 10. shews a Sea-Anemone, of the second species, concealed under the sand, and covered over in different places with broken shells and gravel, with which the animal forms a coat of mail to secure itself under, but out of which it can slip in an instant. The figure shews it when it spurts out water at its mouth, and at the end of its limbs. Plate XVII. Fig. 11. shews the same Anemone open. The mouth is in the center of the upper part: it is not always shaped in the same manner in other Anemonies as it is seen here, or at least does not always appear to be so. Figure A shews a mouth as engraved from another Anemone, but which alters or shifts its form every moment. This Anemone has got five rows of limbs. There are ten of them in the innermost row; the like number in the second; twenty in the third; thirty in the fourth; and fourscore in the fifth. When Dans la figure 10 de la meme planche se voit une anemone de mer, de la seconde espece, cachee dans le sable, et couverte en divers endroits de coquillages brises, et de gravier, dont cet animal se fait une espece de cote d'armes, sous laquelle elle se cache, mais dont elle peut sortir en un instant. La figure la represente dardant de l'eau de sa bouche, et de l'extremite d'un de ses membres. La figure 11 de la XVII. planche montre la meme anemone ouverte. La bouche est au centre de la partie superieure: cette bouche n'est pas toujours formee de la meme maniere dans d'autres anemones, ou du moins ne le paroit pas toujours. Vous voyez en A une bouche dessinee d'apres une autre anemone, et qui a chaque instant change de forme. Cette anemone a cinq rangs de membres: le rang interieur et le suivant en ont chacun dix; il y en a vingt dans le troisieme, trente au quatrieme, et 80 au cinquieme. Quand [402] When the animal is out of the water, and is squeezed, it spurts out water at the mouth and at several of its limbs at the same time; so that it imitates pretty well the play of water works. When the limbs are drawn in closer together, they give it the look of a flower, especially of an Anemone. Fig. 12. shews an Anemone of the same species, turned inside out, as when a purse or stocking is so. A thin transparent membrane, with white stripes, lines the whole inside of the animal; and through it are seen the bowels, part of which hang or come out at the middle. One may observe, besides, in this figure, two hollows sinking in, which are formed by two pretty strong cartilages. Quand l'animal est hors de l'eau, et qu'on le presse, il jette de l'eau par la bouche, et plusieurs de ses membres en meme tems, imitant assez bien ainsi le jeu des jets d'eau. Lorsque les membres sont serres l'un sur l'autre, its donnent a l'animal la figure d'une fleur, et surtout d'une anemone. A la figure 12, de la meme Planche, vous voyez une anemone de la meme espece, mais tournee du dedans en dehors, comme un bas ou une bourse. Tout le dedans est revetu d'une membrane fine et transparente, avec des rayes blanches, les intestins paroissent au travers, et une partie sort du milieu et pend au dehors. On voit aussi deux ouvertures, qui penetrent dans l'interieur, et sont composees de deux cartilages assez forts. 1 N. B. Fig. 11. A DICQUMARE del. Philos.Trans.Vol IXIII. Tab.XVII.p.41 Fig. 12. ~. Basire ~ Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 1. Fig. 5. Fig. 8. Fig. 6. Fig. 9. Fig. ~ Fig. 7. DICQUEMARE del. Philos.Trans.Vol.LXIII. Tab XVI p. ~. Fig.10. ~ [403] N.B. Dr. Solander, F. R. S. being consulted about these sea-worms, which are evidently of the class of the Actinia, referred the first species, Tab. XVI. Fig. 1-3. to the Actinia Equina Linn. Syst. Nat. 1088. 1. the second species, Tab. XVI. Fig. 10. and T. XVII. Fig. 11 and 12. to the Actinia Senilis. Ib. 1088. 2. and the third, Tab. XVI. Fig. 13 and 14. to the Actinia felina. Ib. 1088. 3. VOL. LXIII. G g g XXXVIII. Ac