XXVII. The Rev. Wm. Cooper D. D. Dean of Durham, to the President, of the Earthquake on March 8. and of the luminous Arch, February 16. 1749. S I R, Grosvenor's-Street, March 22, 1749. W H I L S T I was in the Country, I made as much Inquiry into the Progress and Extent of the Earthquake Northward as I was able; but could collect very little worth your Notice. Read March 29. 1749. It was felt very sensibly at Northaw, and at Gubbins, the Seat of Sir Jeremy Sambrooke in that Neighbourhood, whose House was shaken very much. [648] much. At a Farm, three Quarters of a Mile N E of Hatfield, it was felt by the Farmer and his Family, but not perceived by the Inhabitants of Hatfield itself. In like manner at Hertin fordbury, a Village a small Mile West of Hertford, the Shock was felt distinctly; but not observed by any of the Inhabitants of Hertford. At my own House at Panshanger, two Miles West of the above-mention'd Town, the Noise was heard twice, at the Interval of about half a Minute, resembling the Rumbling of a Cart thro' the Streets; but no Shock felt either within or without-doors. This Circumstance of the Noise being heard without any sensible Tremor or Heavings of the Earth, makes me imagine, that the Force of the Vapour was spent before it reached that Place; and thereabouts may be reckon'd the Northern Limit of the Earthquake; at least, I have not heard of any Places more to the North that were affected by it. It is no wonder, in a Shock so sudden and alarming, that very few satisfactory Observations are made, either as to the Nature of the Shock, the Direction of the Tremor, the Time it was felt, or its Duration; of none of which can I give you any Particulars. I should not have troubled you with these I have collected, but for my Promise; and that I thought that one Observation, made at my House, in some degree fixed the Extent of the Shock to be limited thereabouts; and might not therefore prove quite an immaterial one. I cannot help mentioning a luminous Arch, which appear'd Feb. 16. about 9 at Night. It had Arcturus in [649] in its Eastern Limit, which was then low in the Horizon, and extended to the bright Star in the right Shoulder of Orion, then bearing S W. It was exceedingly bright, regular, and well-defin'd, and about the Breadth of the Rainbow; which it resembled in every thing, but its Variety of Colours. It continued thus for almost 20~ Minutes, declining gently Southward, and then gradually separated and disappear'd. I am, S I R, Your very affectionate Friend and Servant, W. Cowper. 