C ,96 3 XVI. An Analysis of the Watersof the Dead Sea and the River 7/ordan. By Alexander Marcet, M. D. one of the Physicians to Guy's Hospital. Communicated by Smithson Tennant, Esq. F.R.S. Read June 18, i807. T HiE Dead Sea, or Lake Asphaltite, is situated in the southern part of Syria, near Jerusalem, and occupies an extent of about 6o or 70 miles in length, and from io to 20 in breadth. This lake has been from time immemorial celebrated on account of the intense saltness of its waters, which is such as to prevent either animals or vegetables from living in it, a peculiarity from which it has derived its name. It appears that this saline quality has existed in the earliest ages; for independently of the frequent allusions made to it in the Scriptures, we find it described by several ancient authors, amongst others bySTRABO,* who wrote during the reign of AUGUSTUS, by TACITUS,t and by PLINY.+ Amoingst modern travellers, POcOCKE,? VOLNEY, I and others, have noticed and described this singular spot. But although the most obvious peculiarities have for a long time been in some degree known, the only chemical analysis I have been able to find on record is that which was published-# STRABONIS Geogr. vol. ii. p. 1107. t TACIT US, lib. v. Hist. cap. vi. t PLINII lib. v. cap. xv, and xvi. ? Pococ Ku's Travels in 1743, ii.P34. || VOLNEY, i. 281. Dr. MARCET'S, Analysis, &c. *97 in the" Memoires de I'Academie des Sciences" for the year 1 778 by Messrs. MACQUER, PLAVOISIER, and SAGE. The names of LAVOiSIEtR, and of'his two disti ng-Lished associates, might appear to render any further investigaton of the nature of this water superfluous; blut whoever has perused the paper in question, must be convinced, that these gentlemen,however correct in their general statements, neither attained that degree of accuracy of whichl modern analysis, is susceptible nor did'-they bestow on the subject that share of attention which is indispensable in minute analytical experiments. 'The gentleman to whom I am indebted for the specimen 'of the f the Dead 'Sea which is th'e subject of this Paper, is Mr. GORDON' of C-lunie, wvho recently travelled in that countrYy and 'undertook, not without some difficulty and danger, 'an-excursion from Jerusalem to this' remarkable lake-. There he himself filled' and brought to Sir JOSEPH BANKS a jhial cOntaining about one ounce and a half of this water, carefully corked, and in a state of perfect preservation. The same genetleman brought also in another phial, somewhat larger, a specimen of the 'River Jordan, which runs into the Dead Sea, without havingany outlet, so that the river might be expected to hold in solution ingredients analogous to those of the Lake itself. These specimens Sir JosEPH put into the hands of Mr. TENNANT, for examination. But knowing, that I was engaged in similar researches, Mr. TENNANT was so obliging as to entrust 'me With this a'nalysis, and to afford me frequent opportunities of availing myself' of his assistance in the course of the enquiry. Being possessed but of a small quantity of this water, a further supply of which could not easily be procured, I '' wa$s Dr. MARCET'S Analysis of the Waters of anxious not to waste any considerable portion of the specimen :y preliminary trials. With this view, I began by making a variety of comparative experiments on artifical solutions, in prder to ascertain the accuracy of diffrent modes of operting; and knowing by LxvoIsiei 's analysis and also by the gene ral effects of reagents applied to minute quantities of the water .what were the principl ingredients which I pf ight epect to find in it, I made solutions, the cQntents of which I h\4 previ.. pusly -ascertained with precision, so that by anlysing these solutions in different ways, I -had an opportunity of judging of the degree of accuracy that could be e-Xpected from a v ariety of methods. Some of these trials I shaell briefly rlalate for although not strictly belonging to the; prticular analysis -in question, yet I conceive that they may be of some generaL use, in pointing out the most eligible methodl to be:pursued in inquiries of this kind. Indeed it must be cojesed, that the minute chemical examinationof any individual substance, re-quires so much time and patience, that to obtain a Iknowledge of that substance only, would seldonm apear f a flicient in.ducement to such a laborious undertaking, was it not always more or less cected with other useful callteral objet. General Properties of the Dead Sea. . One of the: mast obvious peculiarities of the .Dead: Sea:water, is. its specific gravity which I fund to bc 1,w , a degree of density scarcely to be met with, I believe, in any other natural mwater. The circumdtance, of this.lkp allowing bodies of cowsiderable, weight. to floatfupn is surfc, was the Deed Sea andtite Rzferl ,ada. noticed by some of the most ancient writers. STRABO, amongst others, states that men could: not dive in this water, and in going into it, would not sink lower than the navel; and POCOCKE, who bathed in it, relates that he could lie on its surface,-motionless, and in any attitude, without danger of sinking. These peculiarities,, whiifch Iat 1lrst, suspeci&d being exarggeated, are fully confirmed 'by Mr. GO'kD&N, w'h-6 aisfob bathed' in the lake, andexperenced all the efkcts just relat W ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i0 ea 's ' r " . 2. The water of the Dead Sea is: perfectly tran-spareit, and do6es not deposite any crystals on stanicdin-,rg ial~vose vessels.. Its taste is peculiarly bitter, saline, and pnger. 4. Solutions of silver produce from' it a very copiotis pl cipitate, showing the presence of ibarinb acid. 5. Oxalic acid in-stantly discovers lime in the wafd. 6. The lime being separateds, both causti'e andcarbofated alkalies readily throw down a magnesian precipitate.. 7. Solutions of barytesproduce a clou-d, sh owing. the existen-ce of sulphuric acid. S. No alumine can be, discovere&in thes watwer by the fdilicatte test of succinic acid comnbined with ammoniax. 9. A small quantity of pulverisedX sea sal-t being ad4ed to a few drops of the water, cold and undiluted, the salt was, readily dissolved with the assistance of gentle trituration, showing that the Dead Sea is not saturated with, comlmon salt., wo. Noneof the coloured infusions commonly used to ascer-. tain the prevalence of an acid or an, alkali, such-as litmus, violet,> and turmeric, were in the least altered, by th-e water.. DrMa hge, Wto :Prelirnni Experimntsto ascertin theCompositionf theSalts concernedn in ths Analysis. Havingsatisfied myself by these preliminary erimnts that the Dead Sea contained muriat of .lime,, muririat_ , o mgnevsifa,1d seleinite, and having no doubt both from th the water, and from LAVOISIER'S statement,*thatit qet iwd .also comon salt, I proceeded. to the .comparati ve expen t abqve .metio ned. The first ind'is'pensable, st'epwas to .asserani ,ac the prortions of acid -and, base, in the.,three, muria. j named. This IL had already. done in _lthe<.course, of a ne, gee neral inquiry which I begansome.. tie ago. in conjin~iQu with, Mr. TENNANT, and which has been of great use to m, on the present occasion. But asbthe particulars of thatseries-of experiments may probably be published at some fujtwteri od, Ishall' now confine myself to, such generatlstate tsasi mediately belong to my subject. 1. The coi position of muriat of lime was ascertained by pouring a known measure of m-uriatic acid on a 0piece of pure marble of known weight, and more than sufficient. to saturate the acid. .The remaining, portion of marble, being then :weighed, -and the solution evaporated and heated to redness, the proportions of acid' and earth were 'easily deduced. But in order .to _draw such ;an inference. it was necessary to ascertain with precision the quantity of pure lime in a given weight of marble, gI MAC0 o EER, LAVOISIE a., and SAGE, discovered the tliree muriats, but overlooked .the small quantity of selenite. the Dead Sea and the River )ordan. g0o1 which, from a number of experiments performed with great care by Mr. TENNANT and myself, appeared to be 56,1 parts of lime in ioo of marble. From a great variety of trials, made with considerable attention, and with due allowance for any accidental circumstances, muriat of lime appeared to Consist of 50,77 parts of lime, to 49,23 of muriatic acid. 2. To ascertain the proportions of earth and acid in muriat of magnesia, required a synthetic process somewhat differentTo a known weight of pure magnesia perfectly calcined, a known quantity of acid* was added, and after the whole of the magnesia was dissolved, the remaining portion of acid was saturated by marble. From the loss sustained by the marble, and the known proportions of acid and magnesia used, the composition of muriat of magnesia (supposed perfectly free from water) was deduced, and the proportions resulting from several careful trials, were 43,99 parts of magnesia, to 56,o1 of muriatic acid. ,3. Muriat of soda was analysed by various methods. But the only one which I shall now relate consisted in precipitating the acid by a solution of silver from a known weight of muriat of soda, and inferring the proportion of acid and alkali from the quantity of luna cornea obtained. This however required a previous exact knowledge of the proportions of acid and silver in luna cornea. In order to ascertain this point, a known quantity of acid was precipitated by nitrat of silver, and the weight * By a known quantity of acid, is meant as much acid as will dissolve a known weight of marble. In all these experiments the quantities of acid were not weighed, but measured by means of a peculiar apparatus, and the real weights or intrinsic quantities of acid, corresponding to the measures in question, were easily deduced from the results above mentioned. MDCCCVII. R r S302 Dr. -MARCET'S Analysis of the Waters of of the luna cornea, after beingmelted and heated to redness, indicated 19,05 parts of acid to 80,95 of oxyd of silver. The composition of common salt, calculated from these data, proved to be 46 parts of acid to 54 of soda. ? III. Comparatzve Analyses of art~lial So-lutions. I shall not enter into all the particulars of the various ana lyses of artificial solutions, resembling the water of the Dead Sea, which directed me in the choice of the method which I ultimately adopted. But it may be proper to state, in a summary manner, the principal means which were tried, and their respective defects and advantages. These artificial mixtures all contained the three muriats above mentioned, but in each of them the small quantity of selenite was altogether disregarded. I. The first of these solutions was evaporated to dryness, and the residue exposed for near an hour to a red heat in a platina crucilble pretty closely covered. The object of this was to drive off the acid from the magnesia (muriat of magnesia being decomposable by heat), and after separating this earth from the other salts by means of distilled water, to precipitate the lime by carbonat of ammuonia, and to obtain the muriat of soda by evaporation to dryness. 1 But I: soon found that the complete decomposition of muriat of magnesia by -heat, -under th se circumstances, was extremely difficult, if not impossible, and accordingly the results obtained from this method indicated considerably less magnesia and proportionally more lime, the Dead Sea: and the River Yordan. than the solution really contained. The quantity of common sait wastolerably a curate. 2. From another similar solution the lime was precipitated by oxalat of ammonia; the magnesia was separated, by heat in an open -crucible, ald the common salt was obtained, as before, by evaporation: and exposure to a low red heat. The-result was satisfactory both as to the lime and magnesia; butas the separation of the latter could only be completed by long continued heat, in an open vessel, I found the muriat of soda materially reduced by sublimation, and was therefore obliged to abandon this mode of proceeding. 3. From a third artificial solution, the lime was precipitated by oxalat of ammonia, the magnesia by carbonat of ammonia recently prepared and the sea salt was obtained as usual by evaporation and desiccation in a low red heat. The object of this mode of operating was to supersede the necessity of a'pplying a red heat in the first instance. But I was again disall-o pointed; for the magnesia was but 'imperfectly precipitated; and in order to separate the last portions of this earth, it was necessary to calcine the last residue containing the muriat of soda, which-gave rise to the same objections as in the former' experiments. 4.. The last and-most successful method consisted in divid.ing the artificial solution into two portions From one of these the muriatic acid -ws precipitated by nitrat of silver, and its quantity ascertained. From -the other the lime was separated by oxalat of ,ammU0onia, and the magnesia by caustic potash ;* * Or by carbonat of ammonia. In this case the precipitation of magnesia is not so perfect; but the precipitate falls down more quickly, and the separation of any re. maining portion of this earth, may be ultimately completed by heat. R r 3O4 Dr. MARCET'S Analysis of the Waters of and .the respective^-portions of acid beloiiging to. each of these earths being calculated, the quantity of muriat of soda was inferred from the remaining quantity of acid. This method afforded remarkably accurate results. The only objection to it seems' to be that the muriat of soda being only estimated, and .not actually obtained, if any error be made either in the estimation of-the acid or in the separation of the lime and magnesia, these errors must also ultimately affect the computation of the muriat of soda, without allowing any immediate means of detecting them. This objection, however is in a great degree removed, by a comparison of the two portions of the' solution, from one of which thei common salt can be obtained undecomposed; and the present method has this additional advantage, that the quantity of acid is a sort of check, which, when connected with some other point of comparison, prevents any gross error in the comptutatioh of the earths, from escaping notice. This plan being very similar to that which I actually followed in the analysis of the water of the Dead Sea, it may be worth while to mention the summary results of the comparative experiments which decided me in` its favour. The -artificial solution contained: Salts. Acid. Muriat of lime 8,17 grains 4,0o grains. Muriat of magnesia 26,10 = 6 Muriat of soda 25,00 1 J150 59,27* = 30,4 * These happened to be very nearly the real proportions of salts in the Dead Sea; yet this coincidence was a matter of mere accident; for when I mixed up the ingredients, I was led to suppose from LAVOXS IE.R'S paper, that their proportion in the Dead Sea was very different from that which I afterwards ascertained. A\l~hen '>ontent} inered >by the forgoinigm etho wee W,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AD diW tv;XtXtg}fi}, Acd Muriat of .im-e 8 401 grain$. M uriat f m agnesia ,62 14,35 Muriat of soda -I 47 1,72 59A, =30, 8 ?4IV.. Aza4lyis of the'Dead-SeaWa now Q come tothe actual examination of the waterof. the. Dead S thef particulars of which will be found much short end by hepreceding observations. t. 2o grains of this; water (the whole supply of wi anwountel only to T 54 grains) were put in a glass capsue, n slowly evaporated in a water bath, by means of an appropriat a a~athi;te temnperature of the capsule being constantly kept within degrees of i 800. The object of this experimen.t W siPy to now the...weight.of the solid contents of the water, dried under various degrees of heat, an'd'to observe the appearances produced by evaporation. After a few hours, and when the resaidue had ceased to lose weight, the saline mass, wbhilst still warm, appeared in the form of a white semitransparent incrustation which yielded to the touch, being soft, and ofa pulpy consistence..., In coolin.g it became hard, and of a much more opaque white colour. When' examined with attention, the borders of this mass, were found covered with small cubic Y; 4XO' ~t ig o0r<tt0 .EM0 crystals, andX .th~esame appearance was observed, thouigh less conspicuously, in the cent under the saline incrustation, when in the state dfgei'iiin "just dscribed. On tanding in the 306 Dr. MARCET'S Analysis of the Waters of air for some time, the white opaque mass gradually absorbQd water from the atmosphere, and returned to a liquid state. The 20 grains of the water, thus evaporated and dried at 1800, weighed, whilst still warm, 8, grains. 2. The same saline mass being afterwards exposed in a sand bath to the temperature of 21 2? FAHRENHEIT, was reduced to 7,7 grains. Hitherto-not the least smell of muriatic acid was perceived, nor did any decomposition appear to take place. .. But having raised the heat about i59 higher, the residue, after a few minutes, was found reduced to 74 grains; and on redissolving it, a few insoluble white particles appeared floating in the solution, showing an incipient decomposition in the nuriat of magnesia. It appears from these experiments that 1oo parts of the Dead Sea water yield 41 of salts dried at 1800, and 38,5 dried at 212. * What proportion these quantities bear to the same salts, when perfectly deprived of water, will be seen from the subsequent results. I now pass on to the chemical examination of the water. 4. To ioo grains of the Dead Sea water a few drops of muriat of barytes being added, a precipitate was obtained, which, after being well washed and exposed to a low red heat on a piece of laminated platina, weighed o,09 grain) which, allowing for the unavoidable loss attending the manipulation of such very minute quantities, may safely be called oi grain. * If the quantity of materials upon which these results are founded, should appear too small, I would observe that if the bulk of salt be considerable, it is. impossible to dry it accurately, owing to the crust which forms on the surface, and prevents the escape of moisture, But at any rate no perfect accuracy can be relied on respecting this kind -of limited desiccation, as its completion depends in a great degree on the shape of the vessel, the thickness of the stratum of salt, &c. the Dead Sea and the River Yordan. 307 This residue, on being heated with fluat of lime, instantly ran into a globule, ana was evidently sulphat of barytes. $. To another portion of the Dead Sea water, weighing; 25 grains, a solution -of nitrat of silver being added till it ceased to produce anhy, precipitate, a quantity of luna cornea was obtai-ed, which: after careful edtulcoration and exposure to a red heat, weighed 163,2 grains, a quantity equivalent, according tothe proportions above stated (? I. 3), to 31,og grains of real acid. 6. To the remaining solution a little muriat of ammonia was added, in order to remove the >unavoidable small excess of silver, and this. new precipitate-wasseparated and well edulcorated. 7. The clear fluid, which had been much increased in bulk by these edulcorations, being: concentrated to about 3 ounces, a -strong solution of oxalat of ammonia,wwarm, but notnearly boill ing,* was added to it, by which a prcipitate was obtainedwhich collected and washed with the usual precautions, and after deducing 0,076 grains of lime--+for the 0,136 grains of selenite belonging to -250 ograins of the w'ater, yielded -4,814 grains -of pure lime-. 4,66 grains acid = 9,48 grains muriat of-lime. I should not omit mentioning that the method which I used in all my experiments to ascertain the quantity of pure lime in* The precipitates of lime by oxalat of ammonia subside more readily if the solu.. fions be used warm; -but when concentrated and heated to the boiling point, this test acts also in some degree on-magnesia, a circumstance which in the present instance, was -to be particularly avoided. + The proportion of lime in selenite, and of acid in sulphat of barytes, are taken from a paper of Mr. CHENEVIX, Bin N;cHoLsoN's Journal, Vol. ILl in which they are stated to be 56,4+ of lime in xoo parts of telenite, and 24 parts of acid in Ioo parts of i1lhat d barytes. 308 Dr. MARCET'S Analysis of the Waters of oxalat of lime, consisted in driving off the oxalic acid by a low-red heat, and adding to the calcareous residue, then converted into a subcarbonat, a known quantity of muriatic acid more than sufficient to dissolve the whole lime. A piece of nmarble of known weight was afterwards added to take up the excess of acid, and from these data the quantity of lime was calculated with-great precision. 8. The clear solution containing nitrat of magnesia, nitrat of soda, and a small excess both of oxalat and muriat of ammonia, and amounting in bulk to about. 4 ounces, was exposed to the heat of a lamp for concentration; but in a few minutes the mixture became turbid and began to deposite a white pow. der, which, from former observations, I supposed to be oxalat of magnesia. To this solution concentrated to between 2 and g ounces, and still warm, I added carbonat of ammonia with -excess of pure ammonia. A considerable precipitation immediately appeared, and the mixture became opaque and milky. The next morning, however, the fluid had become quite transparent, and -instead of a white impalpable precipitate, I found clusters of perfectly pellucid crystals spread over the bottom of the vessel, with distinct interstices between them. This salt was no doubt an ammoniaco-magnesian carbonate; and the remaining solution, although still containing, as will presently appear, a vestige of magnesia, was so far free from it, as not to have its transparency disturbed by caustic potash. These crystals, after being well washed in distilled water, were exposed to a gentle heat to drive off the ammonia, in consequence of which they crumbled down into a white impalpable powder, exactly resembling common carbonat of magnesia. This powder being then treated, and its quantity estimated, in the Dead Sea and the River Joyrdan. rx39 a way similar to that which had been employed with the lime; and being increased by the addition of about o,5 grains of a similar precipitate (which had escaped the action of the carbonat of ammonia and was obtained from the last remnaining solution by evaporation and calcination), amounted to i 1,i o grains of pure magnesia= 14,15 grains of muriaic acid= 25,25 grains of muriat of magnesia. 9. The muriat of soda was next estimated from the 12,08 grains of muriatic acid found to remain after subtracting the sum of the two portions (4,66 grains and 14,15 grains) belonging to the li-me and magnesia, from the 31,09 grains, or sum total of acid. These 12,28 grains gave according to the lprolortions before mnentioned (? II. 3), 26, 69 grains of muriat of soda 1o. From these several results brought into one view, and the salts being supposed heated to redness, 250 grains of the Dead-Sea wvater appear to contain, Salts. Acid. Muriat of lime 9,480 grains 4,66 grains. Muriat of magnesia 25,25 = 14215 Muriat of soda 26,695 = 12,28 Sulphat of lime 1,136 61,561 :3 109 And therefore loo grains of the same water would contain, Grains. Muriat of lime _ _ 3,792 Muriat of magnesia 10,100 Muriat of soda 1o,676 Sulphat of lime 0,0544 24,6 2 MDCCCVII. S s 310 Dr. MARCETS Analysis of the Waters f ? V Second Analysis of the Dead Sea Water by a Method somewhat dijfer-entfrom the former. In the mode of proceeding just related, some small loss in the earths might naturally be suspected to have taken place in consequence of the previous separation of the acid and indispensable edulcorations. Besides, the muriat of soda being necessarily decomposed by the first part of the process, the analysis could not have been considered as quite satisfactory, had not the common salt been procured unaltered by some other process. i. In order to obtain these points, 150 grains of the water were treated, with regard to the lime and magnesia, exactly as in the former analysis; but in this case, the acid, instead of being actually separated by silver, was only calculated fromthe former estimation (? IV A). e. The result proved perfectly agreeable to my expectation. It yielded a little more lime and magnesia than the former analysis, but this excess was scarcely perceptible. With regard to the muriat of soda, I was able actually to procure by evaporation, as much as i E grains of this salt, the actual quantity of which, inferred as in the preceding analysis, was ,54 grains, a difference easily accounted for by the necessity of heating the salt to redness for its ultimate separation. ,t. On summing up the contents of these i5o grains of the water, they appeared to be as follow: the Dead Sea and the River Yordan. At i Salts. Acid. Muriat of lime a ,88 grains 2,89 grains. Muriat of magnesia 15,37 ,67 Muriat of soda 15,54 = 7,15 Selenite ooS 36,87 1 8,65 And consequently the proportions of these salts in ioo grains of the water would be: Grains. Muriat oflime 3,920 Muriat of magnesia 10,246 Muriat of soda 10,360 Sulphat of lime _ 0,054 ?4,580 The coincidence of these results with those of the former analysis was such as I could scarcely have expected to increase by further trials. The last statement, however, I consider as the most accurate of the two. Jt may therefore be stated in general terms, that the DeadSea water contains about -one fourth of its weight of salts supposed in a state of perfect desiccation ; whilst, as I observed before, if thesesalts be only desiccated at the temperature of 1800, they will amount to 41 per cent. of the water. This great difference between the two states of desiccation depends on the great affinity which muriats, particularly that of magnesia, have for water. Muriat of soda is scarcely at all concerned in1 this difference: for I found, not without surprize, that 1oo grains of artifical cubic crystals of muriat of soda, bing fused S S 312 Dr. MARCETS' Analysis of the Waters of and heated to redness in a platina crucibi , lost at most half a grain. In the analysis of MACQUER and LAVOISIER, the solid contents of the Dead Sea are estimated at about 45 per cent. of the water, and in the proportions of nearly 1 part of common salt to 4 of muriat of magnesia, and 3 of muriat of lime; proportions widely different from those which I had obtained. B3ut their mode of operating, which they candidly relate, was so evidently inaccurate with regard to the separation and desiccation of the salts, and in general so deficient in the estimation of quantities and proportions, that these eminent chemists cannot be considered as having aimed, in this instance, at any thing like an exact analysis. It may be observed also, that these gentlemen-found the specific gravity of the water 1,24,0 instead of 1,211, as I have stated it to be; but it appears that their specimen had suffered some evaporation previous to their experiments, since they found crystals of common salt in one of their bottles, which could rnot have happened Without evaporation. Besides, the specimen which I examined was, I understand, brought from a part of the lake not more than two miles distant from'. the mouth of the Jordan, a circumstance which may perhaps account for itsbeing somewhat more diluted, than it might be found in other parts. ? VI. Analysis of the Water of the River Yordan. As I had scarcely two ounces of this water, and as it con.tained but a very small proportion of saline ingredients, it "would have been in vain to aim at analyzing it with strict the IDead Sea and' the River 7ordan. 3'S accuracy. Yet I thought it worth while to endeavour to form as exact an estimation of its contents as I could, on account of its connection with the Dead Sea, into which, as was observed before, it pours its waters, and appears to remain in a stagnating state. This specimen was brought from a spot about three miles distant from that where the river enters the Dead Sea. From the perfect pellhcidity of this water, its softness, and the absence of any obvious saline taste, I .was led to suppose, that it was uncommonly pure, and could in no degree partake of -the peculiar saline qualities of the Dead Sea. But. I was soon induced to alter my opinion by the following results. 1. The same chemical reagents, as were used to ascertain, the general properties of the Dead Sea water, being applied to this, produced analogous effects. The same three muriats and even the vestige of selenite, were distinctly discovered; and this resemblance became more striking in proportion as the water was concentrated by evaporation. 2. 50o grains of this water being evaporated at about 200?, the dry residue weighed exactly o,8 grains. This makes the solid ingredients amount only to i,6 grains in 1ooo grains of the water, a singular contrast with the Dead Sea, which contains nearly 3o0 times that proportion of saline matter. As the water was concentrating, a few white particles were perceived on its surface, and a few others gradually subsided. When dried, the residue appeared in the form of a white incrustation, the upper edge of which exhibited great numbers of very minute crystals, which from their saline taste, and their cubic shape discoverable by the aid of a mnicrosCope,-, were evidently common salt, 314+ ~Dr. MARCETS' AnalysiS, &c. g. Distilled water being thrown on this residue, a minute portion of it remained undissolved, and on pouring an acid on this substance, a distinct effervescence was produced, showing the presence of carbonat of lime. 4. From the clear fluid a precipitate was obtained by oxalat of ammonia, which, dried but not calcined, weighed 0,12 grains. 5. From the remaining clear solution a magnesian preci-. pitate was produced by ammonia and phosphoric acid, which, after driving off the ammonia by heat, weighed o,i8 grains. 6. The solution had suffered too many alterations to allow me to separate, with any degree of accuracy, the muriat of soda; but from a variety of circumstances, I thought it not unlikely that it would have been found pretty nearly in the same proportions, with respect to the other salts, as it exists in the Dead Sea. The inference I drew from this was, that the River Jordan might possibly be the source of the saline ingredients of the DeadSea,or at leastthat the same source of impregnation might be common to both. This inquiry, however, would require a much more correct knowledge both of the proportions of the salts and of local circumstances, than I have ben able to obtain. 