VIII. On the Parts of Trees primarily impaired by Age. In, Letterfrom T. A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S. to the Rt. Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K. B. P. R. S, Read March Ac, i8io. MY DEAR SIR, IN the first communication I had the honour to address to you, (it was in the year 1795,) r stated the result of many experiments on grafted trees, from which I iinferred that each variety can be propagated with success, dilring a litnited period only; and that the graft, or other detached part of an old tree, or old variety, can never form that, which can with propriety be called a young tree. I have subsequently endeavoured to ascertain which amongst the various or ans that compose a tree, first fails to execute its office, and thus tends to bring on the iiilcurable debility of old age; and the result of the experiments appears sufficienty interestinig-, to indice 1ne to coTnmunicate an account of them to you. XVh atever difP rence exists between the fui ctions of animal and vegetable life, t ere is a very obvious analogy betwve n some of the organs of plants, and those of animals; and it does not appear very improbabie, that tie correspondent organ) ,in eac c nay first: ail to eecute its office; and satisfactory evidence of the imperfect action of any particular Mr. KNIGHT On the Parts of Trees, . 1C organ, can much more easily be obtained in the vegetable, than in the animal world. For a tree may be composed, by the -art of the grafter of the detached parts of many othlers and the defective, or efficient, operation, of each organ,, may thus be observed with. the greatest accuracy. Biut such observations cannot be made upon animals ; because the, operation-s necessary cannot be performed ; and therefore, thoughh the re would be much dangpr of error in incautiously transferring the phenomena of one class of orgaTins.LS b ings to, another, I onceive that experiments oi plalts may be, it some cases useful to the investigator-of the animal ecotlyoin They may direct himn in Ihis pursuits, a 'd possibly facilitate his enquziries into the imn dhiate cauwes of the ckbcay of anh-nal strength and lif&; and on a subj-c t of so muchl imiportanc to. mankind, no source of infortrnatib , should remain, unexplored, and. no lights, hovverr fieble, be disregarded Naturalistsbo)th of ancieat and n oodern tinres , have cc n sidered, the structLUre of pla its,, as an inversion of that of aniin' Is, and have comIared tho roots to the ictestine., and' theleaves to the IJings of animnals s and, thei analogy between, the vegetable sap and animal bloodl, is very close and; obvious. The experiments also, of which I. have at dih rent: periods 'communicatedaccoUnts to yo, supp rted by th fa-s ct eviously ascertained by other naturalists, scarcelyI leave any reaso'able grounds of doubt, that the ssa' of tree' circ umates as f r as is apparently necessary to, or consistent; wth, their state of cxistenc nd growth The roots of tres, particularly those 'in, coppices, whi~ich are felled at Stated periods, continue so long to produce, and, *ed, a succ~ on of branches, that no experimne ts, werr.> 18o Mr. KNIGHT on the Parts of Trees wanted to satisfy me, that it is not any defective action of the root which occasions the debility and diseases of old varieties of the apple and pear tree; and indeed experience every where shows, that a young seedling stock does not give the character of youth to the inserted bud or graft. I, however, procured plants fron cuttings of some very old varieties of the apple, which readily emit roots; and theseplants at the end of two years were grafted, about two inches above the ground, with a new and very luxuriant variety of the same species. These grafts grew very freely, and the roots themselves, at the end of four or five years, probably contained at least ten times as much alburnum, as they would have contained, had the trees r mained ungrafted. The roots were also free from every appearance of disease, or defect. Some crab-stocks were at the same time grafted with the golden pippin, in a soil where the wood of that variety rarely lived more than two years; and I again grafted the annual shoots of -the golden pippin, with cuttings of a young and healthy crab tree, so as to include a portion of the wood of the golden pippin, between the roots and branches of the native uncultivated species, or crab tree; and in this situation it grew just as well as the wood of the stock and branches. -Some branches also of the golden pippin trees, which I mventioned in my former communication of 1795, being much cankered twere cut off about a foot above the junction of the grafts -t the stocks, and were regrafted with a new and healthy variety. Parts of the wood of the golden pippin, in which were niany cankered spots8, xwere thus placed between the newly inserted grafts, and the stocks; and these parts Bhave subsequently become perfectly free from disease, and primarily imp ared by Age. . the wounds, previously made by canker, have been wholly covered with new and healthy bark. These facts, therefore, satisfied me, that the debility and diseases of old varieties of fruit of this species, did not originate in any defective action of the bark or alburnum, either of the root, or of the steni and branches, and my attention was consequently directed to the leaf and succulent animal shoot. A few crab-stocks were grafted with cuttings of the golden pippin, in a situation and soil, where I had previously ascertaincd that the wood of the golden pippin rarely remained in health at the end of a second year; and, as soon as the annual shoots had acquired sufficient growth and firmness, numerous buds of a new and luxuriant variety of apple, which had recently sprung from seed, were inserted in them. During the succeeding winter, the natural buds of the golden pippin branches were destroyed, and those inserted suffered alone to remain; and as soon as the leaves of these had unfolded, and entered on their office, every symptom of debility and disease disappeared in the bark antd wood of tne golden pippin; and each continued to perform its office, just as well as the wood and bark of the youn g Seedling stocks could have done -under similar circunstances. I made nearly the same. experiments on the pear tree, and xviYh the same result. I have endeavoured, in several former Icommunicatic ns, to prove that the sap of plants circulateIs thro gh their leaves, as the blood of animals. cire ulates through thirin lungs ; and I have not subsequently found any facts, in the writings of other naturalists, or in nmy own expe r> tits, which nmiitate against this conclusion. I have also observed, that grafted MDCCCX. B b x82 ~Mr. KNIGHT Of the Parts of Trees trees, of old and debilitated varieties of fruit, became most diseased in rich soils, and when grafted on stocks of the most vigorous growth; which has induced rne to suspect, that in such cases more food is collected and carried up into the plant, than its leaves can prepare and assimilate, and that the matter thus collected, which would have promoted the health and growth in a vigorous variety, accumulates, and generates disease in the extremities of the branches and annual shoots, whilst the lower part of the trunk and roots remain, generally, free from any apparent disease. I am, therefore, much disposed to attribute the diseases and debility of old age in trees, to an inability to produce leaves, which can efficiently execute their natural office; and to some consens quent imperfection in the circulating fluid. It is true that the leaves are annually reproduced, and therefore annually new: but there is, I conceive, a very essential difference between the new leaves of an old, and of a young variety: and in support 'of this opinion, I shall observe, that the external character of the leaf of the same variety at two, and at twenty years old, is very dissimilar; and it therefore appears not improbable, that further changes will have taken place at the end of two centUres.* If these opinions be well founded, and the leaves; of trees 0 The leaf of a seedling apple or pear-tree, when the plant is very young, is gene. rally almost wholly free froin the pubescence or down, which subsequently appears on its under surface; and which BON NET and M. MIRBEL have supposed to increase its surface and powers. But I feel little disposed to adopt this hypothesis, havin observed that the leaves of some new varieties of the apple, which have sprung from. seeds of the Siberian crab, have both surfaces nearly equally smooth; and that these varieties grow faster, and bear heaviercrops of very rich fruit, than anyothers, without being exhausted or injured. prim ly impaired by Age. 183 be analogous to the lungs of animals, is it very improbable that the natural debility of old age of trees and of animals, may originate from a similar source?--This is a question, upon which I am not by any means prepared to give an opinion : but I believe it will very generally be admitted, that the human subject is best formed for long life, when the chest is best formed to permit the lungs to move with most freedom. I have also long and attentively observed amongst our domesticated animals, that those individuals longest retain their health and strength, and best bear excessive labour and insufficient food, in which the chest is most deep and capacious, proportionately to the length of current the circuslating fluid has to run; and the same remark will, I believe, be generally found applicable to the human species. I am, my dear Sir, with great respect, sincerely yours, DowntontFebL. 26, 1810. THO, AND. KNIGHT. 