More Microscopical Observations made by the same M. Leewenhoeck, and promised in Numb. 97. of these Tracts; Communicated in his Letters of August 15. 1673 and of April 7. 1674. 1. I Have divers times endeavoured to see and to know, what parts the Blood consists of; and at length I have observ'd taking some Blood out of my own hand, that it consists of small round globuls driven through a Crystalline humidity or water: Yet, whether all Blood be such, I doubt. And exhibiting my Blood to my self in very small parcels, the globuls, yielded very little colour. 2. I have likewise observ'd some of the sweet Milk of Cows, and find that also to be made up of small transparent globuls, carried in the same manner as in the Blood through a clear liquor. 3. I have also viewed in my Microscope some of the Hair of my own Head, which heretofore I imagined to have seen to grow out of globuls, that are not driven out to the end, as I observed it was done in Trees and Plants, but that they united in the skin, and in the root of the hair; so that Hair grows D 2 and (24) and increases by the protrusion of globuls. But two or three days agoe I observed the Hair of an Elk, and found it wholly to consist out of conjoyned globuls, which by my Microscope appear'd so manifeftly to me, as if they could be handled. And therefore having so clearly seen those globuls, I assure my self, that the growth and increment of Hair is made (as I said just now) by the protrusion and driving on of globuls. This hair of the Elk I find to be within much hollower, than that of Men or of other Animals. ~ 4. Again, I also observ'd a Nail of my hand, and found it likewise to be made up of globuls, not doubting but that it all grows from globuls protruded. 5. Besides, I have observ'd the Udder of a Cow, in which, I believe, the Milk is made; as also the Fat of some Cattle and Fishes, the Sinews of a Cow, the Flesh, the Film, wherein the flesh is wrapp'd up, the Vessels and the Fat of the Film, and the Cuticula of our Body; but, being not now at leisure to describe my observations of them, I must refer it to another opportunity. 6. Having formerly spoken of the Lowse, her sting, &c. * I cannot here omit to say something of what I have seen within that Creature. I have several times put an hungry Lowse upon my hand, to observe her drawing blood from thence, and the subsequent motion of her body, which was thus: The Lowse having fixt her sting in the skin, and now drawing blood, the blood passeth to the fore-part of the head with a fine stream, and then it falls into a larger round place, which I take to be filled with Air. This large room being, as to its fore-part, filled about half full with blood, does then propel its blood backward, and the Air forward again; and this is continued with great quickness, whilst the Lowse is drawing the blood; ex cept, that at times she stops a little, as if she were tired, and recollects her self; (a motion like that, it seems, which is in the mouth of a sucking Infant:) From thence the blood passeth in a fine stream into the midst of her head, that being also a large round place, where it hath the same motion. Hence it passeth in a subtile stream to the breast, and thence into a gut, which ~ See Mr. Hook of this subject in his. Micrography, Obs. 32. * See Mr. Hook in his Micrography, Obs. 54. (25) which goes to the hindmost part of the Body, and with a curvity bends a little upwards again. In the breast and gut the blood is without intermission moved with great force, and especially in the Gut, and that with such strong beatings downwards, and with such a retrocourse and contradiction of the gut, that a curious Eye cannot but admire that motion. In the upper part of the crooked ascending Gut, which is very streight, now and then a little blood crowds thorough, which returns not back (and here, I presume, is a little valve:) The blood, that is thrust through here, stands still, and soon receives another nature, becoming of a watery colour; and in this watery liquor there do appear some blackish sandy particles, having a confused motion, which grow in bigness, and being grown so great as sand is to our Eye, the said particles joyn themselves close and firm together, as it were, in one mass, and then shoot down to the anus, carrying with them, in case the Lowse have much Blood in her body, a little aqueous blood. These excreted particles appear like the excrement of a Silk-worm. 