(278) III. Of the Motion of the Stomach, observ'd in in a Dog, in July, 1685. By Dr. Christopher Pitt. ~ 1. ANatomists in their Description of Man's Body, tho' they sometimes Make mention of the Motion of the Stomach, (as in Vomiting and in conveying the Meat that is Digested in the Stomach into the Intestines) yet giving no particular Description of it from the Testimony of Sight, I hope it will be no ways impertinent in me to give an Account of it, as it appear'd to me in the Dissection of a Dog, in July, 1685. ~ 2. In this Dog I observed that the Peristaltick Motion of the Guts was continued thro' the Stomach; the Pylorus (that usually appears, after opening the Dog, as high as the Diaphragm) being in every waving brought below the very Bottom of the Stomach, I could manifestly observe a Constriction in the middle of the Stomach, at every Motion Downward, passing it in so as to be able to compress what was contained in its Cavity. And these Motions were as regular and orderly as ever I saw it in the Guts; and appeared for a long time together; so that I could the more diligently make my Observations. ~ 3. I have seen the Motion of the Stomach in Two or Three that I have dissected since, so that one may safely conclude it holds true in all. ~ 4. I suppose the Reason that it appear'd so manifestly and long in the First Dog, was because his Stomach being extreamly full, put the Fibres upon some Stretch; so that they (as all such Bodies do) endeavour'd by their Motion to restore themselves to their former Position. And (279) And I am apt to believe that this is one of the main Causes of the Motion of the Stomach and Guts, and that they seldom move but when they have something in their Cavity to distend their Fibres. But I'll not be too bold to make such Deductions till farther Tryals make it appear true or false. ~ 5. The Motion of the Stomach being after this manner, may give us a clearer Account of the Quickness of the Distribution of the Nourishment, than any way I can find that Authors give us: the Meat being no sooner opened by the Spittle and Liquor that we take in, than that it has a free Motion by the Descent of the Pylorus into the intestines, which is almost Pleno Flumine, from the Compression in the Middle of the Stomach. IV. 