1: 140 XI. On the mutual action of sulphuric acid and naphthaline, and on a new acid produced. By M. FARADAY, F. R. S. Cor..responding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences, &c. &c. Communicated January 12, 1826. Read February 16, 1826. IN a Paper on new compounds of carbon and hydrogen, lately honoured by the Royal Society with a place in the Philosophical Transactions, I had occasion briefly to notice, the peculiar action exerted on certain of those compounds by sulphuric acid. During my attempts to ascertain more minutely the general nature of this action, I was led to suspect the occasional combination of the hydro-carbonaceous matter with the acid, and even its entrance into the constitution of the salts, which the acid afterwards formed with bases. Although this opinion proved incorrect, relative to the peculiar hydrocarbons forming the subject of that Paper, yet it led to experiments upon analogous bodies, and amongst others, upon naphthaline, which terminated in the production of the new acid body and salts now to be described. Some of the results obtained by the use of the oil gas products are very peculiar. If, when completed, I find them sufficiently interesting, I shall think it my duty to place them before the Royal Society, as explicatory of that action of sulphuric acid which was briefly noticed in my last Paper. Most authors who have had occasion to describe naphthaline, have noticed its habitudes with sulphuric acid. Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid,, &c. 141 Mr. BRANDE, several years since,* stated that naphthaline dissolved in heated sulphuric acid "in considerable abundance, forming a -deep violet coloured solution, which bears diluting with water without decomposition. The alkalies produce in this solution a white flaky precipitate, and, if diluted the mixture becomes curiously opalescent, in consequence of the separation of numerous small flakes." The precipitate by alkali was probably one of the salts to be hereafter described. Dr. KIDD observes,t that" it blackens sulphuric acid when boiled with it; the addition of water to the mixture having no other effect than to dilute the colour, neither does any precipitation take place upon saturating the acid with ammonia.' Mr. CHAMBERLAIN states , that sulphuric acid probably decomposes naphthaline, for that it holds but a very small quantity in -solution. The true interpretation of these facts and statements will be readily deduced from the following experimental details. 1. Production and properties of the new acid formed from sulphunc acid and naphthaline. Naphthaline, which had been almost entirely freed from naphtha by repeated sublimation and pressure, was pulverised; about one part with three or four parts by weight of cold sulphuric acid were put into a bottle, well shaken, and left for 36 hours. The mixture then contained a tenacious* Quarterly Journal of Science, viii. 289, i8i9. t Philosophical Transactions, i 82I, p. 2I6. I Annals of Philosophy, N. S. vi. p. 136, 1823. 142 Mr. FARADAY 0on the mutual action of sulphuric acid deepred fluid, and a crystalline solid; it had no odour of sulphurous acid. Water being added, all the liquid and part of the solidwas dissolved ; a few fragments of naphthaline were left, but the greater part was retained in solution. The diluted fluid being filtered: was of a light brown tint, trans.. parent, and of an acid and bitter taste. For the purpose of; combining as much naphthaline as possible with the sulphuric -acid, 700 grains, with 52o grains of oil of vitriol were warmed in a Florence flask until entirely fluid, and were well shaken for about so minutes. The mixture was red-; and the flask being covered up and left to cool, was found after some hours to contain, at the bottom, a little brownish fluid, strongly acid, the rest of the contents having solidified into a highly crystalline mass. The cake was removed, and -its lower surface having been cleaned, it: was put into another Florence flask with Soo grains more of naphthaline, the whole melted and well shaken together, by which a uniform mixture was obtained; but opaque and dingy in colour. It was now poured into glass tubes, in which it could be retained and examined without contact of air. In these the substance, was observed to divide into two portions, which could easily be distinguished from each other, whilstboth were retained in the fluid state. The heavier portion was in the largest quantity; it was of a deep red colour, opaque in tubes half an inch in diameter, but in small tubes could be seen through by a candle, or sun light, and appeared perfectly clear. The upper portion was also of a deep red colour.,. but clear, and -far more transparent than the lower : the line of separation very! defined. On cooling the tubes, the lighter substance first solidified, and after some and naphthaiine, and on a new lacid produced. 143 time the heavier substance also became solid. In this state, whilst in the tube, they could with great difficulty be distin_ guished from each other. These two substances were separated, and being put into tubes, were further purified by being left in a state of repose at temperatures above their fusing points, so as to allow of separation; and when cold, the lower part of the lighter substance, and the upper, as well as the lower -part of the havier substance, were set aside for further purification. The heavier substanCe was a red crystalline solid, soft to the nail like a mixture of wax and oil. Its specific gravity was from i.s to 1.4, varying in different specimens; its taste sour, bitter, and somewhat metallic. When heatedin a tube, it fused, forming as before a clear but deep red fluid. Further heat decomposed it, naphthalinle, sulphurous acid, charcoal, &C. being produced. When heated in the air it burnt with much flame. Exposed to air it attracted moisture rapidly, became brown and damp upon the surface, and developed a coat of naphthaline. It dissolved entirely in alcohol, forming a brown solution. When rubbed in water a portion of naph.. thaline separated, amounting to 2 per cent. and a brown acid solution was obtained. This was found by experiments to contain a peculiar acid mixed with a little free sulphuric acid, and it may conveniently be called the impure acid. The lzghter substance was much harder than the former, andmore distinctly crystalline. It was of a dull red colour, easily broken down in a mortar, the powder being nearly white, and adhesive like naphthaline. It was highly sapid, being acid, bitter, and astringent. When heated in a tube it melted, forming a clear red fluid, from which by a continued 144 Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action of heat much colourless naphthaline sublimed and a black acid substance xvas left, which at. a high temperature gave sulphurous acid and charcoal. When heated in the air it. took fire and burnt like naphthaline. Being rubbed in a mortar with water, a very large portion of it proved to be insoluble; this was naphthaline; and on filtration the solution contained the peculiar acid found to exist in the heavier substance, contaminated with very little sulphuric acid, More minute examination proved that this lzghter substance in its fluid state was a solution of a small quantity of the dry peculiar acid in naphthaline; and that the heavier substance was an union of the peculiar acid in large quantity with water, free sulphuric acid, and naphthaline. It was easy by diminishing the proportion of naphthaline to make the whole of it soluble, so that when water was added to the first result of the experiment, nothing separated; -and the solution was found to contain sulphuric acid with the peculiar acid. But reversing the proportions, no excess of naphthaline was competent, at least in several hours, to cause the entire disappearance of the sulphuric acid. When the experiment was carefully made with pure naphthaline, and either at common, or slightly elevated temperatures, no sulphurous acid appeared to be formed, and the action seemed to consist in a simple union of the concentrated acid and the hydrocarbon. Hence it appears, that when concentrated sulphuric acid and naphthaline are brought into contact, at common, or moderately elevated temperatures, a, peculiar compound of 'sulpluric acid with the elements of the naphthaline is produced which possesses acid properties; and as this exists in large and naphthaiine, and on a new acid produced. l4, quantity ini the heavier of the bodies above described, that product may conveniently be called the impure solid acid. The experiments made with it, and the mode of obtaining the pure acid from it, are now to be described. Upon applying heat and agitation to a mixture of one volume of water, and five volumes of impure solid acid, the water was taken up to the exclusion of nearly the whole of the free naphthaline present; the latter separating in a colourless state from the red hydrated acid beneath it. As the temperature of the acid diminished, crystallization in tufts commenced here and there, and ultimately the whole became a brownish yellow solid. A sufficient addition of water dissolved nearly the whole of this hydrated acid, a few flakes only of -naphthaline separating. A portion of the impure acid in solution was evaporated at a moderate temperature; when concentrated, it gradually assumed a light brown tint. In this state it became solid oncooling, of the hardness of cheese, and was very deliquescent. By further heat it melted, then' fumed, charred, &c. andgave evidence of the abundant presence of carbonaceous matter. Some of the impure acid in solution was neutralized by potash, during which no naphthaline or other substance separated. The solution being concentrated until ready to yield a film on its surface, was set aside whilst hot to crystallize: after some hours the solution was filled with minute silky crystals, in tufts, which gave the whole, when stirred, not the appearance of mixed solid salt and liquid, but that of a very strong solution of soap. The agitation also caused the sudden solidification of so much more salt, that the whole MDCCCXXVI. U 146 Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid became solid, and felt like a piece of soft soap. The salt, when dried had no resemblance to sulphate of potash. When heated in the air-, it burnt with a dense flame, leaving common sulphate of potash, mixed with some sulphuret of potassum, resulting from the action of the carbon, &c. upon the salt. Some of the dry salt was digested in alcohol to separate common sulphate of potash. The solution being filtered and evaporated, gave a white salt soluble in water and alcohol, crystalline, neutral, burning in the air with much flame, and leaving sulphate of potash. It was not precipitated by nitrate of lead, muriate of baryta, or nitrate of silver. It was now evident that an acid had been formed peculiar in its nature and composition, and producing with bases peculiar salts. In consequence of the solubility of its barytic salt, the following process for the preparation ofthe pure acid was adopted. A specimen of native carbonate of baryta was selected, and its purity ascertained. It was then pulverized, and rubbed in successive portions with a; quantity of the impure acid in solution, until the latter was perfectly neutralized, during which the slight colour of the acid was entirely removed.-The solution was found to contain the peculiar barytic salt. Water added to the solid matter dissolved out more of the salt; and ultimately only carbonate and sulphate of baryta, mixed with a little of another barytic salt, remnained. The latter salt bemig mulch less soluble in water than the former, was not removed so readily by lixiviation, and was generally found to be almost entirely taken up by the last portions of water applied with heat. and naplithali-ne, ad on ao new acidproduced. 147 The barytic salt in solution was ow ry carefully decomposed, by successive additions of sulphuric acid, until all the baryta was separated, no excess of sulphuric acid being permitted. Being filtered, a pure aqueous solution of the peculiar acid was obtained. It powerfully reddened litmus paper, and had a bitter acid taste. Being evaporated to a certain degree, a portion of it was -subjected to the continued action of heat; when, very: cxncentrated it began to assume a brown colour, and on coling became thi*k, and ultimately solid, and was r deliquescent. By renewed heat it med, then began to fume, charred, but did not flame; and ultimately gave sulphuric and sulphurous acid vapours, and left charcoal. Another portionof the unchanged 'strong acid -solution was placed over sulphuric acid in an exhausted -receiver. In some hours it had by concentration become a soft white splid, apparently dry; and after a longer period was hard and brittle. In this state it was deliquescent inthe air, but in close vessels underwent no change in-severalmonths. its taste was bitter, acid, and accompanied by an after imetallic fl.avour, like that of cupreous: salts. When heated in -a tube at Atemperatur -below 2 iL , it nmelted without any other change, and on being allowed to cool, crystallized from centres, the whole ultimaty becoming solid. -When more highly heated, water at first ipassed off,;and the, acid assumed a slight red tint; but no sulphurous acid was as yet produced, nor any charring occasioned;, and a portion being 4issolved .and tested by fmuriate of baryta, gave but a very minute trace of ,free sulphuric acid. .In this .state it was probably anhydrouls.Further heat -caused a little naphthalne 148 Mr. FARADAY on:the mutual action of sulphuric acid .to rise, the .red colour became deep; brown, and then a sudden action commenced at the bottomof the tube, which spread over the whole, and the acid became black and opaque. Continuing the heat,naphthaline, sulphurous acid,and charcoal were evolved; but even after some time the residuum examined bywater and carbonate of baryta, was found to contain a portion of the peculiar acid undecomposed, unless the temperature had been raised to redness. These facts establish the peculiarity of this acid, and distinaguish it from all others. In its solid state it is generally a hydrate containing much combustible matter. It is readily soluble in water and alcohol, and its solutions forms neutral salts with bases, all of which are soluble in water, most of them in alcohol, and -all combustible, leaving sulphates or sulphurets according to circumstances. It dissolves in naph. thaline, oil of turpentine, and. olive oil, in greater or smaller quantities, according as it contains less or more water. As a hydrate, when it is almost insoluble in naphthaline, it resembles the heavier substance obtained as before described, by the action of sulphuric acid on naphthaline, and which is the solid hydrated acid, containing a little naphthaline, and some free sulphuric. acid; whilst the lighter substance is a solution of the dry acid in naphthaline; the water present in the oil of vitriol originally used being sufficient to cause a separation of a part, but not of the whole. 2. Salts formed by the peculiar acid with bases. These compounds may be formed, either by acting on the bases or their carbonates by the pure acid, obtained as already described; or the impure acid in solution may be used, and naphthaline, and on a new aczdproduced. 149 the salts resulting being afterwards freed from sulphates, by solution in alcohol. It is however proper to mention that another acid, composed of the same elements, is at the same time formed with the acid in question, in small, but variable proportions. The impure acid used, therefore, should be examined as to the presence of this body, in the way to be directed when speaking of the barytic salts; and such specimens as contain very little or none of it should be selected. Potash forms with the acid a neutral salt, soluble in water and alcohol, forming colourless solutions. These yield either transparent or white pearly crystals, which are soft, slightly fragile, feel slippery between the fingers, do not alter by exposure to air, and are bitter and saline to the taste. They are not very soluble in water; but they undergo no change by repeated solutions and crystallizations, or by long continued ebullition. The solutions frequently yield the salt in acicular tufts, and they often vegetate, as it were, by spon.. taneous evaporation, the salt creeping over the sides of the vessel, and running to a great distance in very beautiful forms. The solid salt heated in a tube gave off a little water, then some naphthaline -'after that a little carbonic and sulphurous acid gases arose, and a black ash remained, containing carbon, sulphate of potash, and sulphuret of potas-. sium. When the salt was heated on platinum foil, in the air, it burnt with a dense flame, leaving a slightly alkaline sulphate of potash. Soda yields a salt, in most properties resembling that of potash; crystalline, white, pearly, and unaltered in the air. i.5o Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action Of sulphuric acid 1 thought that, in it, the metallic taste which frequently occurred with this acid and its compounds was very decided The action of heat was the same asbefore. Ammonza formed a neutral salt imperfectly crystalline, not deliquescent, but drying in the atmosphere. Its taste was saline and cooling. It was readily soluble in water and alcohol. When heated on platinum foil it fused, blackened, burnt with flame, and left a carbonaceous acid sulphate of ammonia, which by further heat was entirely dissipated. Its general habits were those of ammoniacal salts. When its solutions, though previously rendered alkaline, were .evapo-rated to dryness at common temperatures, and exposed to air, the salt became strongly acid to litmus paper. This however is a property common 'to all soluble ammoniacal ,salts, I believe, without t.exception. Baryta. It is easy by rubbing carbonate of baryta with solution of 7the impure ;acid, to obtain a perfectly neutral solution, in which the salt of baryta, containing the acid already described, is very nearly pure. There is in all cases an undissolved portion, which being washed repeatedly in small quantities of hot water, yields to the first portions a salt the: same --as that in -the solution. As the washings proceed, it is found, that the salt obtained does not burn with so much flame on platina foil,as that at first separated-; and the fifth or sixth washing will perhaps separate only a little: of a salt which when heated in the air, in small quantities, burns without flame in the manner of tinder. Hence it is evident that there are two compounds of baryta, which as they are both soluble in water, both neutral, and both combustible, and naphthaline, and on a new acid produced. I51 leaving sulphate of baryta, differ probably only in the quantity of combustible matter present, or its mode of combination in the acid. It is this circumstance, of the formation of a second salt in small but variable quantities with the first, which must be guarded against, as before mentioned, in the preparation of salts from the impure acid. It varies in quantity according to the proportions of materials, and the heat employed: and I have thought that, when the naphthaline has been in large quantity, and the temperature low, the smallest quantity is produced. When the impure acid is used for the preparation of the salts now under description, a small portion of it should be examined by carbonate of baryta, as above and rejected, if it furnish an important quantity of the flameless salt These bodies may be distinguished from each other provisionally, as the flaming and the glowing salts of baryta, from their appearances when heated in the air. The latter is more distinctly crystalline than the former, and much less soluble, which enabled me by careful and repeated crystallizations, to obtain both in their pure states. Theflaming salt (that corresponding to the acid now under description) when obtained by the slow evaporation of the saturated solution, formed tufts, which were imperfectly crystalline. When drops were allowed to evaporate on a glass plate, the crystalline character was also perceived; but when the salt was deposited rapidly from its hot saturated solution, it appeared in the form of a soft granular mass. When dry, it was white and soft, not changing in the atmosphere. It was readily soluble in water and alcohol, but' was MB Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid not affected by ether. Its taste was decidedly bitter. When heated in the air on platinum foil it burnt with a bright smoky flame, like naphthaline, sending flocculi of carbon into the atmosphere, and leaving a mixture of charcoal, sulphuret of barium, and sulphate of baryta. After being heated to 21 2 for some time, the salt appeared to be perfectly dry, and in that state was but very slightly hygrometric. When heated in a tube naphthaline was evolved; but the substance could be retained for hours at a temperature of 50oo F. before a sensible portion of naphthaline had separated: a proof of the strength of the affinity by which the hydrocarbon was held in combination. When a higher temperature was applied, the naphthaline, after being driven off, was followed by a little sulphurous acid, a small portion of tarry matter, and a carbonaceous sulphate and sulphuret were left. This salt was not affected by moderately strong nitric or nitro-muriatic acid, even when boiled with them; and no precipitation of sulphate took place. When the acids were very strong, peculiar and complicated results were obtained. When put into an atmosphere of chlorine, at common temperatures, it was not at all affected by it. Heat being applied, an action between the naphthaline evolved, and chlorine, such as might be expected, took place. When a strong solution of the pure acid was poured into a strong solution of muriate of baryta, a precipitate was formed, inr consequence of the production of this salt. It was re-dissolved by the addition of water. The fact indicates that the affinity of this acid for baryta is stronger than that of muriatic acid. and izaphtha4ne, and on a new acidproduced. I5 The second, or glowing salt of baryta, was obtained in small crystalline groups. The crystals were-prismatic, colourless, and transparentthey were almost tasteless, and by no means so soluble either in hot or cold water as the former salts. They were soluble in alcohol, and the solutions were perfectly neutral. When heated on platinum foil they gave but very little flame, burning more like tinder, and leaving a carbonaceous mixture of sulphuret and sulphate. When heated in a tube they gave off a small quantity of naphthaline, some empyreumatic fumes, with a little sulphurous acid, and left the usual product. This; salt seemed formed in largest quantity when one volume of naphthaline and two volumes of sulphuric acid were shaken together, at a temperature as high as it could be without charring the substances. The tint, at first red, became olive green; some sulphurous acid was evolved, and the whole would ultimately have become black and charred, had it not been cooled before it had proceeded thus far, and immediateIy dissolved in water, A solution was obtained, which though dark itself, yielded, when rubbed with carboa te of baryta,, co1qu~rlss liquids; and these when ?va-po.tl furnished a barytic ;sgt, burning without much flame, but which wes not so crystalline as former specimens. No atteptmyt to form the glowing salt -from the flaming salt by sohtion of caustic baryta, succeeded. Strontia. The compound of this earth with the acid already described very much resembled the flami-ng salt of baryta. When djry it w as white, but rot distinctly crystalline it was $plublc in water agd alcho1; not altrable in -the air, but MDCCCXXVI. X -154 Mz r. FARADAY; On the mutual action of sulphuric acid when heated burnt with a 'bright flame, without any red tinge, and left a result of the usual kind. Lime gave a white salt of a bitter taste, slightly soluble in water, soluble in alcohol, the solutions yielding imperfect crystalline forms on evaporation: it burnt with flame; and both in the air and in tubes, when heated, gave results similar to those of the former salts. Magnesia formed a white' salt with a moderately bitter taste':; crystallizing in favourable circumstances, burning with flame, and giving such results by the 'action of heat as might be expected. Iron. The metal was acted upon by the acid, hydrogen being evolved. '.The, moist protoxide being dissolved in the acid gave a neutral salt capable of crystallization. This by exposure to air slowly acquired oxygen, and a portion of per-salt was found. Zinc was readily acted upon by the acid, hydrogen evolved, and a salt formed. The same salt resulted from the action of the acid upon the moist oxide. It was moderately soluble in hot water, the solution on cooling affording an abundant crop of acicular crystals. The salt was white and unchangeable in the air; its taste bitter It burnt with flame, and gave the usual results' by heat. Lead. The salt of this metal was white, solid, crystalline, and soluble in water and alcohol. It had a bitter metallic taste, with very little sweetness. The results by heat were such as might be expected. Manganese. The protoxide of this metal formed a neutral crystalline salt with the acid. It had a slightly austere taste, and naphthaline, and on a nSew acid produced. .15 was soluble in water and alcohol, and was decomposed by heat, with the general appearances already described. Copper. Hydrated per-oxide of copper formed an acid salt with the acid, and the solution evaporated in the air left radiated crystalline films. The dry salt when heated fused, burnt with flame, and exhibited the usual appearances. Nickel. The salt of this metal was made from the moist carbonate. It was soluble, crystalline, of a green colour, and decomposed by heat in the' usual manner. In one instance an insoluble sub-salt was formed. Silver. Moist carbonate of silver dissolved readily in the acid, and a solution, almost neutral, was quickly obtained. It was of a brown colour, and a powerful metallic taste. By evaporation it gave a splendent, white, crystalline salt; not changing in the air except when heated; but then, burning with flame and ultimately leaving pure silver. When the solution of the salt was boiled for some time, a black insoluble matter was thrown down, and a solution obtained, which by evaporation gave abundance of a yellow crystalline salt. The -changes which took place during the action of heat in the moist way were not minutely examined. Mercury. Moist proto-carbonate of mercury dissolved in the acid forming a salt not quite neutral, crystallizing feebly in the air, white, of a metallic taste, not deliquescent, and decomposed with various phenomena by heat. By re-solution in water or alcohol, and heat, a sub-salt of a yellow colour was formed. The moist hydrated per-oxide of mercury also dissolved in the acid, forming an acid solution, which by evaporation U56 Mr. FARADAY on thM rutual action of -wlphutfe acid gve -a yellowish delquescent salt, deomposed -by hlat, burning in tthe _air, an1id entirely volatile* s. Analysis of the acid and satts. When solutioh of the pure acid was subjected to the Voltaic battery, oxygen and hydrogen gases were evolved in their pure state: no solid matter separated, but the sol-ution became of a deep yellow colour at the positive pole, Occasioned by the evolution of free sulphuric acid, which re-acted upon the hydrocarbon. A -solution of the barytyi salts gave similar results. Th~e analytical experits upon the composition of this acid and its salts wrte mhade principally *With the compountd of baryta. This was found to be very constant in composintion, could be obtained anhydrous at moderate temperatures, and yet sustained a high tempe'rature before it sufered any change. A portion "of the pure salt was prepared and dried for tome hours on the sand bath, Ati a temperature about 21270. Known weights were then heated tin a platnum crucible to dissipate and burn off the combustible matter; and the residuum being moistened with sulphuric acid to decompose any s-ulphuret of barium formed, was heated to convert it into a pure sulphate of baryta. The results obtained were ery constanit, an d to 41.714 of sulphate -of baryta per cent. -of salt used, equivalent to 27.57 baryta per cent. Other portions of the salt were decomposed by being heated in a flask with strong nitro-muriatic acid, so as to liberate the sulphuric acid from the carbon and hydrogen present, -ad yet retain kit inI the -state -of acid. Muriate of and naphthalaine, and on aI newacidproduced. 157 baryta was then Iadded, the whole evaporated to dryness, heated red-hot, washed Fwith dilute muriatic acid to remove the baryta uncombined with sulphuric acid, and the sulphate collected, dried and weighed. The results were inconstant but the sulphate of baryta obtained, always much surpassed that furnished by the former method. Judging from this circumstance that the sulphuric acid in the salt was more than an equivalent for the baryta present, many processes were de-vised for the determinatiuonof its quantity, but were ected in consequence of idifficultes and imperfections, arising, principally, from the presence and action of so much carbonaceous matter. The followving was ultimately adopted. A quantity of per-oxide of copper was prepared by heaing copper plates in air and scaling them. A sufficient quantity of purem--uriatic and nitric acids were provided, and also a specimen.,of pure native carbonate of baryta. Seven grains of the salt to be examined were then mixed with seven grains of the pulverized carbonate of baryta, and afterwards with 312! grai-ns of the oxide of copper. The mixture being put into a glass tube was successively heated throughout its -mass, the gas liberated being -passed through a mixture of baryta water and. solution of muriate of baryta. It was found that no sulphurous or wsulphuric acids came off, or indeed sulphur in any state. The contents of the tu-be were then dissolved--in anexcess of nitric-and mnuriatic acids, above that required to take up all that was soluble ; and a little solution of mtnuriate of baryta was added for -the sake of greater certainty. A, portion of sulphate of baryta remained undissolved, equivalent to the sulphuric acid of the salt exprimented upon, with. that contained accidentally in the oxide of 15s8 Mr. FRADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid copper acids, &c. This sulphate was collected, washed, dried and weighed. Similar quantities of the carbonate of baryta and oxide of copper were then dissolved in as much of the nitric and muriatic acids as was used in the former experiment and the washings and other operations being repeated exactly in the same way, the quantity of sulphate of baryta occasioned by the presence of sulphuric acid in the oxide, acids, &c. was determined. This, deducted from the weight .afforded in the first experiments, gave the quantity produced from the sulphuric acid actually existing in the salt. Experiments so conducted gave very uniform results. The mean of many, indicated 8.9 grains of sulphate of baryta for to grains of salt used, or 89 grains per cent. equivalent to o.-17 of sulphuric acid for every ioo of salt decomposed. Inthe analytical experiments relative to the quantity of carbon and hydrogen contained in the salt, a given weight of the substance being mixed with per-oxide of copper, was heated in a green glass tube. The apparatus used consisted of Mr. COOPER'S lamp furnace, with Dr. PROUT'S mercurial trough; and all the precautions that could be taken, and which are now wvell known, were adopted for the purpose of obtaining accurate results. Whenoperated upon in this way, the only substances evolved from the salt, were carbonic acid and water. As an instance of the results, 3. grains of the salt afforded I 1.74 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas, and o.9 of a grain of water. The mean of several experiments gave 32.939 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas, and 2.589 grains of water, for every lo grains of salt decomposed. On these data, loo grains of the salt would yield 3929.8 and naphthaline, and on a new acid produced. 1;,9 cubic inches of carbonic acid, or 153.46 grains, equivalent to 41.9 grains of carbon, and 25.89 grains of water, equivalent to 2.877 grains of hydrogen. Hence too grains of the salt yielded Baryta 27.57 78 Sulphuric acid 30.17 85.35 Carbon 41.90 1-18.54 Hydrogen 2.877 8.13 102.517 In the second numerical column the experimental results are repeated, but increased, that baryta might be taken in the quantity representing one proportional, hydrogen being unity: and it will be seen that they do not differ far from the following theoretical statement. Baryta 1 proportional 78 Sulphuric acid 2 ditto 8o Carbon 20 ditto 120 Hydrogen 8 ditto 8 The quantity of sulphuric acid differs most importantly from the theoretical statement, and it probably is that element of the salt, in the determination of which most errors are involved. The quantity of oxide of copper and of acids required to be used in that part of the analysis, may have introduced errors, affecting the small quantity of salt employed, which when multiplied, as in the deduction of the numbers above relativeto 1oo parts, may have created an error of that amount. As there is no reason to suppose that during the combinationof the acid with the baryta any change in its proportions i6o Mr. FARADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid takes place, the results above, minus the baryta, will repre-" sent its composition: from which it would appear, that one proportional of the acid consists of two proportionals of sulphuric acid, twenty of carbon, and eight of hydrogen, these constituents forming an acid equivalent in saturating power to one proportional of other acids. Hence it would seem, that half the sulphuric acid present, at least when in combination, is neutralized by the hydro-carbon; or, to speak in more general terms, that the hydro-carbon has diminished the saturating power of the sulphuric acid to one half. This very curious and interesting fact in chemical affinity was however made known to me by Mr. HENNELL of Apothecaries" Hall, as occurring in some other compounds of sulphuric acid and hydro-carbon, before I had completed the analysis of the present acid and salts ; and a similar circumstance is known with regard to muriatic acid, in the curious compound discovered by M. KIND, which it forms with oil of turpentine. Mr. HENNELL is I believe on the point of offering an account of his experiments to the Royal Society, and as regards date they precede mine. It may be observed, that the existence of sulphuric acid in the new compounds, is assumed, rather than proved; and that the non-appearance of sulphurous acid, when sulphuric acid and naphthaline act on each other, is not conclusive as to the non-reaction of the bodies. It is possible that part of the hydrogen of the rnaphthaline may take oxygen from one of the proportions of the sulphuric acid, leaving the hypo.. sulphuric acid of WELTER and -GAY LuSSAC, Which with the hydro-carbon may -constitute the new acid. I have not time at present to ptrsue these :rsefinements of the subject, or to and naphthaline and-on a new acid-produced. 16 repeat the analyses which have been made of naphthaline, and which would throw light upon the question. Such a view would -account for a part of the overplus in weight, but not for the excess of the sulphuric acid obtained, above two proportionals. The glowing salt of baryta was now analysed by a process similar to that adopted for the flaming salt. The specimen operated upon was pure, and in a distinctly crystalline state. It had been heated to about 440? F. for three hours in a metallic bath. Ten grains of this salt exposed to air for 40 hours increased only o.o8 of a grain in weight. These when converted into sulphate of baryta by heat and sulphuric acid, gave 4.24 grains. Seven grains by carbonate of baryta, oxide of copper, heat, &C.' gave 6.og grains of sulphate of baryta: hence io grains of the salt would have afforded 8.6 grains of the sulphate equivalent to 2.915 grains of sulphuric acid. Five grains when heated with oxide of copper gave i6.68 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas, equal to 7.772 grains, and equivalent to 2.12 grains of carbon. The water formed amounted to 1.2 grains equivalent to o.1 of a grain of hydrogen. From these data, ioo grains of the salt would appear to furnish Baryta 28.o3 78 or i proportional. Sulphuric acid 29i,3 81.41 nearly two proportionals. Carbon 42.40 118. approaching to 20 ditto. Hydrogen 2.66 7.4 or 7.4 proportionals. 102.22 results not far different from those obtained with the former salt. MDCCCXXVI. Y 162 Mr. IFARADAY on the mutual action of sulphuric acid, &c. I have not yet obtained sufficient quantities of this salt in a decidedly crystalline state to enable me satisfactorily to account for the difference between it and the flaming salt. Attempts were made to form similar compounds with other acids than the sulphuric. Glacial phosphoric acid was heated and shaken in naphthaline, but without any particular results. A little water was then used with another portion of the materials, to bring the phosphoric acid into solution, but no decided combination could be obtained. Muriatic acid gas was brought into contact with naphthaline in various states, and at various temperatures, but no union could be effected either of the substances or their elements. Very strong solution of potash was also heated with naphthaline, and then neutralized by sulphuric acid; nothing more however than common sulphate of potash resulted. As the appropriation of a name to this acid will much facilitate future reference and description, I may perhaps be allowed to suggest that of sulpho-naphthalic acid, which sufficiently indicates its source and nature without the inconvenience of involving theoretical views. Royal Institution, January lo, i82z6. 