Numb. 37 (717) PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS. Monday, July 13. 1668. The Contents. Other Observations, made in the formerly mention'd Voyage to Jamaica. A curious Relation of a Sand-Floud, which hath of late years overwhelmed a great Tract of Land in the County of Suffolk; together with some Observations concerning Agriculture. An Extract of a Letter, touching the present Declination of the Magnetick Needle, and the Tydes. Two Extracts of Letters, concerning an Opticall Experiment, conducive to a decay'd sight, together with some Notes, referring to the Observations about a Blemish in Horse-eyes, publisht Numb. 32. A Remarque touching the greater Antiquity of the Transfusion, than hitherto hath been taken notice of here. Mr. Gregories Ansiver to Mr. Hugenius's Animadversions on his Treatise De Vera Circuli & Hyperboles Quadratura. An Account of four Books: I. DISCOuRS PHYSIQuE dela PAROLE. II. De INFINITIS SPIRALIBuS INVERSIS INFINITISque HYPERBOLIS, ac aliis Geometricis. III. EXERCITATIO GEOMETRICA de MAXIMIS & MINIMIS. IV. LA VENERIE ROYALE. The Remainder Of the Observations made in the formerly mention'd Voyage to Jamaica, publisht Numb. 36. BEfore we proceed to the rest of these observations, it ought not to be pass'd by, what the Lean'd Author of them takes notice of, as done by the Publisher in the first part of the same, printed in the Year 1667. in September (viz. Numb. 27. p.498.) where the said Publisher takes the liberty to K k k k offer (718) offer a reason, opposite to his of Similar Attraction: which this observer in his Second Letter thinks not so fair, except the othe instances, he mentioned, had been refuted. To which `tis thought there needs no more to be said, to satisfie the observer, than that the Publisher did not at all obtrude another reason of the Effect, there spoken of, but very modestly (as he conceives) and with an expression implying doubt, suggested only his thoughts, which then occurr'd to him; being so unconcern'd herein, that, to shew on this occasion his averseness from disputing, he altogether leaves it to the Reader to judge, whether Similar Attraction, or Pulsion and Weight be the more Philosophical account of the Phaenomenon there discoursed of: In reference to which, this curious Travellor farther observes; That the Sea-brise comes not into Jamaica till 8 or 9 of the clock in the morning, and ordinarily ceaseth about 4 or 5 at night. Where yet he adds, that he hath known a Sea-brise blow in the Winter-months 14 days and nights together; and that then no Clouds gather, but Dews fall: But if a North-wind blow, (which sometimes in the Winter-months lasts as long) that then no Dew falls,nor Clouds gather. The Clouds (he saith) begin to gather about 2 or 3 of the clock in the afternoon at the Mountains, and do not embody first in the Air, and after settle there, but settle first, and embody there; the rest of the Skie being clear till Sun-set; so that they do not pass near the Earth in a body, and only stop where they meet with parts of the Earth elevated above the rest; but precipitate from a very great height, and in particles of an exceeding rarified nature, so as not to obscure the Air or Sky at all, that great variety of beautiful Colours in the Canopy of Heaven, being raised to a much greater distance than `tis here. Next (to do the Observer farther right) he desires that what is said Numb. 27. p. 497. of having sail'd in the Latitude of Barbados for two days, may be read for some days, he having kept no exact Journal, and believing it was more days. And p. 498. he suggests, that for J. Hawkins it should be read Sir Richard Hawkins in his observ. Sect. 12. Thirdly, he takes notice, that he could not learn, how the Tortoises (719) toises do, when they sleep on the top of the Sea; for they float asleep (saith he) in a calm day a long time, so that the Sea-men hoise out their Boats and row gently to them, and either strike them with irons, or ensnare their Legs with a Rope and a running Net, and so take them. He doth not remember any Swim or Bladder in them, than what contains their Urine. Fourthly, he observes of the Purging-nuts (of whom so much is said by Authors, as Ligon, Piso, Simon Pauli, &c.) that he could never adjust the Dose, having given from 3 to 60, without any effect in the same person, so that he never durst rely on them; yet he adds, that they often do work as is related Fifthly, he notes, that he never saw any good effect of the most innocent Purge during his stay in the Indies, except in Chronical distempers; nor did he ever almost give any, after frequent tryals had made him cautious, but Pills that were Antimonial, or Mercurius vitae, or Vomitive Infusions. Sixthly, he relates, that inquiring at the Barbadoes of the Doctors and Chirurgions there, about the use of Opium, so much magnified by Bontius and Piso, he heard them all condemn it, as most stupifying and mortal; and found, that they us'd the London-Laudanum, which he observ'd to be very narcotique, the Opium being extracted with Spirit of Wine. But he saith, he had a Laudanum of Monsieur Le Fevre, call'd Laudanum Simplex, of torrefied Opium, extracted with distill'd Vineger and some other Correctives, which he affirms never stupifies, no, nor inclines to sleep after 'tis taken, yet immediately easeth all pain. He adds, that he used the London-Laudanum several times, and found two grains to stupifie so, that those who took it, were almost senseless for two days, even when it was mixt with purging Pils in the Colick; but that other never rendred them sleepy; and if they fell asleep, and he awaken'd them presently after, he found them as intelligent, as if they had taken nothing of Opium. To which he subjoyns, that he took it himself for 14 weeks every night in the B lious Colick, where it immediately ceas'd his pains, but perhaps he slept not till two or three hours after; taking it with so much security, that he very seldom weigh'd it, but guess'd at a Pill of two or three, or (as he found his mistake sometimes, when he weigh'd it out of curiosity) even four grains. K k k k 2 Nor (720) Nor hath this Laudanum Simplex (by his observation) only this effect in the Indies, where he saith, he used it in all cases to all ages, even sucking Children, but that even here in England he gave it not long ago to a Lady in the Colique bilious, never weighing it, and it eas'd her pains, yet did she never apprehend, that she had taken any such thing, and all the night, if any did but stirre, she could hear them as perfectly, as ever she could when she slept naturally. Seventhly, he takes notice, that the Observation, which Oviedo hath about Lice, which is, that they leave the Spaniards as they go to the Indies in such a degree, and meet them again in the same Latitude in their return, is very true. For though the ships, they went in, with such a multitude of Servants and Seamen, were not over-cleanly, yet (as he remembers) before they came to the Tropick, there were none Lowsie; whereas before, one could not walk amongst them, but his cloaths would gather Lice. In the Indies (saith he) none are Lowsie, how nasty soever, except it be in their heads; and there they breed much: but he could never hear of the most nasty, that ever they had them in their shirts or cloaths. And in their return home he did observe, that they did multiply again, after they came to about the Latitude of the Maderas. Discoursing with his Captain and others about the reason of it, the Ingenious Sir Christopher Mings, one of the most observing persons in the World, said, that when they approach the Long-reach and Tropick, they begin to sweat excessively, which sweat abounding over the body, c oaks the old Lice and kills them: Just thus, he said, it was an usual remedy for lowzy heads. to rubb them all over with Butter or Oyl, and he would warrant, it would kill all the Lice. And as for any new generation, the sweat not lodging in the pores long enough, it was not disposed to produce these vermine at all; for no sweat in the Indy's is rank, as in Europe, that ever he could observe. In their return, the sweat lodgeth longer in the pores and habit of the body, and the particular forms or ferments, being exalted and unloosen'd, and put into activity, shape out those creatures, and so they breed them. But if you ask, why they breed in the Head in the Indies; He answers, that though our faces sweat much, yet doth not our hair so much: besides that the (721) the sweat is lodg'd in the hair, and there breeds the vermine, and they take not the care of their heads there as here. However, the Spanish Negroes wash their heads with soap once a weak to prevent being lowsie; whilst the other Negroes loose a great deal of time in looking after their heads, which by reason of their curls breed Lice more than the English, insomuch, that he affirms to have seen great holes eaten by Lice in the heads of some of them that were lazy. Eighthly, He relates, that in the Colick bilious they often used Clysters of Tobacco smoak, but with no success at all. That he gave the juyce of Tobacco, an ounce in a Clyster, which stupified extreamly, but did no other good, than for the present to render them insensible of their pain. He adds, that 'tis usual to give Clysters of a pint of Brandy there, which will make them as drunk and mad as if they had taken it at their mouth. He observ'd, that less Brandy would foxe them in a Clyster then if drunk by them. He tryed a quarter of a pint in a Clyster on himselfe, and it made him not dead drunk, but raging mad, (though mixt with other things) and he faith, he remembers still, how unruly he was, so as not to be held in bed, his reason being depraved by these fumes. So he never took more of that (lyster but once, to reiterate the experiment, the effect being the same. But he complyed with the Spanish Negroes, who to nourish him, gave him a Clyster of halfe a pint of Madera-Sack, the yolk of one Egg, and a little Pepper, warm'd and given at night, and to hold it in all night: which did gently warm his bowels, and cast him always into a gentle sleep and sweat for some hours. He saith, he took many of these in the day time, the effect ceasing after two or three hours. Lastly, He takes notice of the censure of Simon Pauli in his Herbal p. 383. against Chocolata, and saith, he cannot forgive him for it; being of opinion, that that Liquor, if it were well made and taken in a right way, is the best Diet for Hypochondriaks and Chronical distempers, and the Scurvy, Gout and Stone, and Women lying in, and Children new-born (to prevent Convulsions, and purge the Meconium out) and many other distempers, that ever came into Europe; but that 'tis now rather used for Luxury then Physick, and so compounded, as to destroy the stomack, (722) mack, and to encrease Hypochondriacal diseases, and so cook'd now, as if it wereto be trans'form'd into a Caudle or Custard. 