--: 28-: IV. Ob3ervatt0ns of a qut8tEple Belt on the Planet Satarn By William Herschels LL. D. Fe Re 5s Read Deceruber z9 1793* n W tVERY analogy that can be traced ln the appearance of the planets, seems to throw some additional light on what we know of them already In some of my former papers I 11ave established the spheroidical tbrm of the planet Saturrl and pointed out the motion of a spot on its disk. From the first of these may be infbrred a considerable rotation on its axis; while the latter goes a step farther,, and shews that it has such a motionv My late observations seem to hint to usg that the perlod in-which it revolves iS probably, not of a long dura tionX Thqy are as follows: Nolr s, 1793. sh 3$t9 7-feet reflector power e87 i Close to the ring of Saturn, where it passes across the body of the planet is the shadow of the ring g verJr rlarrowS and blacl<. See Taba VIi fig. . Immediately south of the slaadow is a bri;ht uniform alld breae . Je t. Closv to this bright belt is a bread, darker belt; svhich is dierided by two narrowf white streaks; so that by this meanst it becomes to be fi5/re belts; rlamely three darkS and two bright 0nt$; the colour of the dark belt is yellowishl. Dr. HERSCHXL'S Obserzoations f a quintuple Belt, @cO e9The space fiom the quintuple belt towards the south pole of the planet which is iti view, is of a pale, whitish colour; less bright than the whlte quatorial belt, and much less so than the ring. . The globular form of Saturais :rery visible, so that it llas by no means the appearance of a flat disk. Notl. <8 3 3o'. The quintuple belt on Saturn iS as it wasNov. 1o. I saw it three hours; ago and several times since, without any visible change NOV. 19, Sh 14t, The southern belt of Saturn is still divided into fi^re. The evening is not clear enough to observe changes in It, if there were any. ; Nov. 22 2h 32t. The quintuple belt on Saturn remains still tlle same , power 287. With 4So, I see the same very distinctly but the small di wisions haare hardly light enough wllell so much magnifiedf I vievsred the same belt with four different object specula One of them she-wed the dinfisions uncommonly well. Dec. g Qh 35t. 7-feet reflector; power e87. The quintuple beltupon Saturn-remains as ltwas Nov. 22. I tried ssveral tdouble and pla2R0-concarre eye-glasses but fourld them a11 defective in figure except one, and that being of olle inch focal length, the power was too low to expect see illg these belts well with it. The smallness of the field of view, with astronomical ob3ects is rlot so disSreeable as it is generally supposed to be; for tlle eye may have a motion before the lens,andloy that lneans a small lu-minous sbJect, when all the rest cf the field is dark and while the telescope remains in ttLe same situation, may be wen for as lotlg a times passillg through the feld of a corlcaare Dr. HERSCHEL'S Obser7ncltions of aoeye-glassn as it can in a convexSone; whereas with the latter, it is well known that such a motion of the eye can be of no use. 2h g6'. 20-feet reflector; power xS7, SooS 480. I see the quintuple belt very well. -We know that the planet Jupiter has marly belts So:me re markable instances of their beirlg very nulnerous are recorded in my journal, one of svhich is accompanied with a figure. The observations are as follows May 28, 1780. Jupiters belts are curved; and there are a multitude of them all over the body of the planet. See fig. 2. Jan. 18, o790. I viewed Jupiter with the 40-feet reflector There were two very dark, broad belts divided by an equa. . torial zone or space, the colour of whicl1 was of a yellow caste . Next to the dark belts, on each side, towards the poles, were bright alld dark small belts, alternately placed, and continued almost up to the poles, both ways. In taking out fig. 2. from my journal, I perceive one so very unlike it just before, that I am inducecl to give it here though rather foreign to :my present purpose. It contairls, howeverv an oleservation which it will 1lot: be amiss to record. ¢ April 69 o7So. I had a fine view of Jupitet, and saw, as soon sIS -I I-ooked into the telescope, without having any previous notice of it, the shadow of the Sd satellite, and thesatellite itself, UpOll the lonver part of the disk. See fig. The shadow ^raS so black alld well d@fined, that I attempted to measure ity and found its diameter by the micrometer t",-S6S rrhis lueasure of the shadow should be checked by the fol lowving observatiorl. A{arcil r 1792. 1lh 5+'. Witll the 20-feet reflector, and a power of 800> I estimate the apparent diameter of the largest quintuplz BelZ on tbe P/neSSaDurx 3 t . . Of Jupiter's satellites to be less than onefoiirtll of the dialneter of the GEORGI-AN planet, which I ha-ve just beeh vievving. With 12oo, it seems also to be less3 in the saule proportion. With e4oo, I can plainly perceiere the disk of the satellite. Wit11 4800, the apparent diameter of the largest of X11e satel lites is less than one-quarter of that of the GEORGIAN P1aNete The analogy alluded to ill the first paragraph of this paper, refers to the llumerous parallel belts which we have noticedv in the above given observations, on the disks of Jupiter arld Saturn. rrhat belts are immediately contlected witll the rotation of the planets will hardly be denied, when those of Jupiter are so well known always to lie in the direction of its equatorial motion. Since, then, it appears that the belts of Saturn are very numerous like those of Jupiter, and are also placed in the dlrection of the longest diameter of the planet, it tnay not be without some reason that we infer the period of the rotation of the former to be short, like that of the latter.The planet Mars, in all my observations, never presented itself with any parallel belts, nor do we observe such phno mena on the disk of Venus. The first is known to have a rotation much slower than Jupiter; e and the latter, according to the accounts of CAS S IN I an d BI ANCH IN I X is certainly not one that moves quickly upon its axis. However, I do not mean to enter into the strength of an argument for a quick rotation of Saturn that may be drawn from the condition of its belts. The circumstance of a quin-See Phil. Trans. XJolX LXXI. Part I. page I34. 32 Dr. HERSCHEL)S Observations gea quintuple-Belt, Sc. tuplebelt, is:adduced herewith no.other.view,7.than merely to point out an analogy in the condition of the. two largest planets of cour system^, arld from thence to infer, that every conclusion on the atmosphere and rotation of the one, drawn from the appearance of itsAbelts,-zfwsll equallyXappW to the other4 $10ugh, near Windsors WM XHERSCH;ELo Dec. I47 3[7*9$;e -r o_ , m v 6 i | -2 = => r ' Ae'.._.__ r 7l'--r%4 s.' e ! < 41> t>ns , 'tE'',;_, .. '-' ..C..UE ,. .o .. __. , -ronro .S er , , '' t;o^.>w..a u-:'" ; ;, > ^;-;K-Ses _@h ,= , -w'S''..... ,S,,,<;,.St _ t_ S oS ;; _Pht7otf. ftrfiz¢s. MOCCXClaZ.VI.,@. 32. 