An Account of an Experiment shewn before the Royal Society, of Shooting by the Rarefaction of the Air: By Dr. D. Papin, R. S S. WHereas ordinary Wind-Guns do their Effect by the Compression of the Air. Ottho Ghericke hath found a new Sort that shoots by Rarefaction; and he hath Publisht that device at large in his Book about Pneumatick Experiments, but he doth not express how strong was the Effect. I have therefore had the Curiosity to try it my self by another Contrivance, which I take to be better than his: First, because I can make a Rarefaction much more perfect than he could do. Secondly, because his Device could not be used but for Guns of a small bore; but my way may be apply'd to the biggest bore that can be made by Workmen: So that one might by this means throw up vast Weights to a great distance. A A is a Pipe very equal from one end to the other. B B a small Pipe soder'd to a Hole near the end of the Pipe A A, and apply'd to the Plate of the Pneumatick Engine. C C C C some kind of Stool to bear up the hinder part of the Pipe A A. D. a peice of Lead fitted to the bore of the pipe A A. The pipe A A is to be shut at both ends by ~ outwardly apply'd, and so the said pipe A A, though never so big, may be exhausted of Air by means of the Pneumatick Engine: Which done, the Val e towards D must be ~ly open'd, so that the whole pressure of the Atmosphere acting upon the Lead D may drive it along the pipe A A with C 2 such [22] such a ~, that it will be able to carry it to a great distance: And because such a ~ shutting a great hole would prove very difficult to be opened, when the pipe A A is of a great Bore, the aperture towards D may be left much smaller than the pipe; the swiftness of the Air being so great, that even through a pretty small aperture, it presses the lead D as freely almost as if the whole Bore was quite open. Having prepared a Barrel carrying a lead of 2 ounces, the Experiment was shewn before the Royal Society, and the Effect was found very considerable, the force being little less than that of the Wind-Gun by compression; the same experiment being afterwards repeated with a longer Barrel, 'twas found that the length in this way of shooting was very little, if any advantage. 