PH1 I LOS O P H ICAL T RA N SA C T I ON S OF THE ''ROYAL SOCIETY OF L 0 N D 0 No FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXLIV. PART I. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREEt. MDCCCXL1V. ADVERTISEMENT. THE Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume; the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued. But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors. It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, a 2 [ iv upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respec" shown to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions, and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices-; which in some instances have been too lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society. The Meteorological Joiurnal hitherto kept-by the Assistant Secretary at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council, and published in the Philosophical Transactions, has been discontinued. The Government, on the recommendation of the President and Council, has established at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, under the superintendence of the Astronomer Royal, a Magnetical and MeteorologicaltObservatory, where observations are made on an extended scale, which are regularly published. These, which correspond with the grand scheme of observations now carrying out in different parts of the globe, supersede the necessity of a continuance of the observations made at the Apartments of the Royal Society, which could not be rendered so perfect as was desirable, on account of the imperfections of the locality and the multiplied duties of the observer. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each Syear, on making ..application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.In the British Dominions. The Queen's Library. The Admiralty Library. The Radcliffe Library, Oxford. The Royal Geographical Society. The United Service Museum. The Royal College of Physicians. Trhe Society of Antiquaries. The Linnean Society. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Society for the Encouragement of Arts. The Geological Society. The Horticultural Society. The Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Asiatic Society. The Royal Society of Literature. The Medical and Chirurgical Society. The London Institution. The Entomological Society of London. The Zoological Society of London. The Institute of British Architects. The Institution of Civil Engineers. The Cambridge University Philosophical Society. The Royal Society of Edinburgh. The Royal Irish Academy. The Royal Dublin Society. The Asiatic Society at Calcutta. The Royal Artillery Library at Woolwich, The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Madras. The Observatory at Paramatta. The Observatory at Edinburgh. Denmark. The Royal Society of Sciences at Copenhagen. The Royal Observatory at Altona. France. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Toulouse. The Ecole des Mines at Paris. The Geographical Society at Paris. The Entomological Society of France.The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Geological Society of France. The Jardin des Plantes, Paris. Germany. The University at G6ttingen. The Cawsarean Academy of Naturalists at Bonn. The Observatory at Manheim. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Munich. Italy. The Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts, at Milan. The Italian Society of Sciences at Modena. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Turin. Switzerland. The Societe de Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. at Geneva. Belgium. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Brussels. Netherlands. The Royal Institute of Amsterdam. The Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy at Rotterdam. Spain. The Royal Observatory at Cadiz. Portugal. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Lisbon. Prussia. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. Russia. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Peters, burgh. The Imperial Observatory at Pulkowa. Sweden and Norway. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm. The Royal Society of Sciences at Drontheim. United States. The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston. The Library of Harvard College. The Observatory at Washington. Theftfty Foreign Members of the Royal Society. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical and Magnetic Observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within two years of the date of publication.In the British Dominzons. The Queen's Library. The Board of Ordnance. The Royal Society. The Savilian Library, Oxford. The Library of Trinity College, Cambridge. The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The University of Aberdeen. The University of St. Andrews. The University of Dublin. The University of Edinburgh. The University of Glasgow. The Observatory at Oxford. The Observatory at Cambridge. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Paramatta. The Observatory at Madras. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Royal Society, Edinburgh. The Observatory, Trevandrum, East Indies. The Astronomical Institution, Edinburgh. The President of the Royal Society. TbeLowndes's Professor ofAstronomy,Cambridge. The Plumian Professor of Astronomy, Cambridge. Francis Baily, Esq. Thomas Henderson, Esq. of Edinburgh. L. Holland, Esq., Lombard Street. Sir John William Lubbock, Bart., V.P. and Treas. R.S. Captain W. H. Smyth, R.N. of Cardiff. Sir James South, Observatory, Kensington.In Foreign Countries. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm. The Royal Society of Sciences at Upsal. The Board of Longitude of France. The University of Gottingen. The University of Leyden. The Academy of Bologna. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston. The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The Observatory at Altona. The Observatory at Berlin. The Observatory at Breslau. The Observatory at Brussels. The Observatory at Cadiz. The Observatory at Coimbra. The Observatory at Copenhagen. The Observatory at Dorpat. The Observatory at Helsingfors. The Observatory at Kinigsberg. The Observatory at Manheim. The Observatory at Marseilles. The Observatory at Milan. The Observatory at Munich. The Observatory at Palermo. The Observatory at Paris. The Observatory at Seeberg. The Observatory at Vienna, The Observatory at Tubingen. The Observatory at Turin. The Observatory at Wilna. Professor Bessel, of Konigsberg. The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Bowden College, United States. The Library of Harvard College. The Waterville College, United States. ROYAL MEDALS. HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, has been graciously pleased to approve the following regulations for the award of them: That the Royal Medals be given for such papers only as have been presented to the Royal Society, and inserted in their Transactions. That the triennial Cycle of subjects be the same as that hitherto in operation: viz. 1. Astronomy; Physiology, including the Natural History of Organized Beings. 2. Physics; Geology or Mineralogy. 3. Mathematics; Chemistry. That, kin case no paper, -coming within these stipulations, should be considered deserving. of the Royal Medal, in any given year, the Council have the power of awarding such Medal to the author of any other paper on either of the several subjects forming the Cycle, that may have been presented to the Society and inserted. in their Transactions; preference being given to the subjects of the year immediately preceding: the awardbeing, in such case, subject to the approbation of Her Majesty. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1844 for the most important unpublished paper in Mathematics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1841, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1844. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1844 for the most important unpublished. paper in Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society [ viii ] for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1841, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1844. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1845 for the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1842, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1845. The Council propose also to give oneQf the RpyalMedals in the, year 1845 for the most important unpublished paper in Physiology, including the Natural History of Organized Beinlgs, comniounicated io the Royal Society for insertion in their Traiisactions after the termination of the Session in June 1842, .and prior to the term-ination of the Session in June 1845. The Council propose to give one of the; Royal Medals in the year 1846 for the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal'. Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1843, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1846. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in thee year -1846. fo 'the most important unpublished paper in Geology or Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1843, 'and prior to' the termination of the Session 'in June 1846. The Council propose to :give one of the Royal Medals in the year 18,47 for the most important unpublished paper in Mathemnatics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1844, and prior' to the termination of the Session in. June 1847. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1847 for the most important unpublished paper in Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions afterbthe termination of the Session in June 1844, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1847.. CON T ENT S. i. Additional Researches on the Electrolysis of Secondary Compounds. By J. FREDERIC DANIELL, Esq., D.C.L., For. Sec. R.S., Prof. 6Chem. in King's College, London, and W. A. MILLER, Esq., M.D., Dem. of Chem. in King's College, London. page 1 II. On the Thermal Changes accompanying Basic Substitutions. By THOMAS ANDRE WS, M.D., M.R..A., Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Belfast Institution. Communicated by MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L., F.R.S., &jc. &jc. Ssc. . . 21 Ill. A Description of an extensive series of the Water Battery; with an Account of some Experiments made in order to test the relation of the Electrical and the Chemical Actions which take place before and after completion of the Voltaic Circuit. By JOHN P. GASSIOT, Esq., F.R.S. 39 IV. On the Existence of Phosphoric Acid in Rocks of Igneous Origin. By GEORGE FOWNES, Ph. D., Chemical Lecturer in the Middlesex Hospital M11edical School. Communicated by THOMAS GRAHAM, Esq., F.R.S., Tic. 8Sc. 53 V. Miscellaneous Observations on Animal Heat. By JOHN DAVY, M..D., F.R.S., L.andE. 57 VI. A Description of certain Belemnites, preserved, with a great proportion of their soft parts, in the OJford Clay, at Christian-Malford, Wilts. By RICHARD OWEN, Esq., F.R.S., Ssc... 65 PHILOSOPH ICAL T RA N SA C T I O N S OF TIlE Rt OYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. FOR THIE YEAR MDCCCXLIV. PART UT. LONDON:. PRINTEI. Y RTICHA(RD14A.1 AND JOh1N E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, ILET STREElT. MDCCCXLJIV. ADJUDICATION of the MEDALS of the ROYAL SOCIETY for the year 1844 by the PRESIDENT and COUNCIL. The COPLEY MEDAL to Professor C. MATTEUCCI of Pisa, for his various researches in Animal Electricity. The ROYAL MEDAL, in the department of Mathematics, to GEORGE BOOLE, Esq., fill his Paper entitled "1 On a general method in Analysis," published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1844. riThe ROYAL MEDAL, in the department of Chemistry, to THOMAS ANDREWS, M.D., for his Paper entitled "On the thermal changes accompanying Basic Substitutions," published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1844. The Paper appointed for the Bakerian Lecture in 1844, is Professor OWEN'S, entitled "' A description of certain Belemnites, preserved, with a great proportion of their soft parts, in the Oxford clay, at Christian-Malford, Wilts." C O N T E N r S. VII. Contributions to Terrestrial AMagnetism.-No. vF. B Lieut.-olo o EDwALD SABINE, R.A., F.R ... .. page 87 VIII. On a General Method in Asnalysis. By GEORGE BOOLE, Exq. CGonmmmnicaeled by S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Esq., Sec. 1.S. $jc. 225 IX. On the Reproduction of lost parts in .iJyriapoda and Insecta. By GEORGE Ni<wPORT, Esq., F.R.C.S., President of the Entomnologrical Society of London, and Corresponding Member of the Philomathic Societyl of Paris. Communicated by P. M. ROGET, M.D., Sec. R.S. 283 X. On the Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland. B-y JOHN SIMON, Esq.> Assistant-Surgeon to the King's College hospital, and Demnonstrator of Anatotny in King's College. Communicated by JOSEPH HENRY GREEN, Esq., FR..S., Senior Surgeon to St. Thomas's Hospital, Prcfrssor of 4natomy to the Rayal Academy, 8c. S'c. &-c.. . 295 XI. Researches into the Structure and Development of a newly discovered Parasitic Animalcule of the Human Skin-the Entozoon follicuiloruin. By ERASMUS WILSON, Esq., Lecturer on Anatomy and Phtysiology in. the Middlesex Ihospital. Communicated by ROBERT BENTLEY TODD, M.D., F.R.S. . . . . . . 305 XII. Observations on some of the ANebula. By the Earl of RossF, F.R.S., & c. 32 l Index. 325 APPENDIX, Presents. . ] 