(683) Some Observations Concerning the Comet, that hath lately appear'd in forain parts, communicated from Italy and Portugal. The Italian Account, given by Gio. Domen. Cassini, we thus English. ANno 1668. the 10th of March h.I. of the following night, (after the Italian way of counting) at Bononia, I observed a path of Light extended from the Whale through Eridanus; which I judged to be the Train of a Comet,both by the Figure and Colour, as also because that the direction of it, being by the Fancy continued, seem'd to proceed unto the 21. degr. of Pisces, where the Sun then was, and so tended to the part opposit to the Sun, like other Comets. By its extreme point it reached to that Star in Eridanus, which is called the Fourteenth by Bayerus: But it issued out of the Horizontal Clouds, so that I thought, the Head of the Comet was either vailed by them, or hid under the Horizon. It followed the Motion of diurnal revolution Westward, and it was to be seen about the second hour of the night; for then it was demersed in the mists of the Horizon. Not far from its pointed end Eastward, there appeared a Star, equal to the brightest of the Fourth magnitude, almost in the same place, where was observ'd the Comet of A. 1664. Decemb. 31. which Star was not then seen, nor at other times elsewhere, nor is described in any Catalogue, on any Globe or Map, that I can learn; which therefore I deem to be a New one, that is, of new appearance. March 11. at even the Horizon was in the West overcast with thin Clouds; among which after one hour of the night, there was seen a Brightness in the Whale, at least for half an hour, which was very like the splendour of Venus, likewise vailed by thin clouds. March 12. at night, the lower parts of the Heavens in the West were clouded, and when the Great Dog-star was in the Midheaven, the same Tail appear'd again. It passed through the Star in Eridanus, which Bayerus calls the 15th, and left to the SouthEeee 2 ward (684) ward the 14th, where it did terminate March 10. Being by the imagination drawn out to about 3. degrees and further, it tended to that Southern Star, which preceds the Ear of Lepus. It was therefore more Northerly, than the day before yesterday, and more Easterly; and it also reacht to the opposit part of the Sun. Towards the West it came out of the Clouds, and left us doubtful, whether its head was hid by them, or under the Horizon. But the Line from Jupiter to the extremity of the said Tayle in the Clouds was perpendicular to that Tayle; So that it was in the Whale, and the apparent part of the Train reached out in length about 32. degrees. So far the Italian relation; that of Portugal from Lisbon is this; Various are the Discourses of the newly discover'd Comet, seen here the first time (according to the general report of our Observers;) March 5. st. n. But for as much as it seems to follow the Regular course of the Sun, and sets few hours after it, there could hitherto be taken no considerable observations of it. The Body thereof is not seen, because it remains hid in the Horizon. Its Train is of a stupendious length, extended in appearance over almost the 4th part of the visible Heaven, from West to East; its apparent breadth is of a good Palm, and its splendor very great, but it lasts but a few hours. In time there will be discourses written upon this Subject, like to be more particular and exact, which I shall transmit to you, to compare with the Observations, made in your parts. Though these accounts be but very general and un-accurate, yet being the best, that are come to our hands, we thought it not amiss, to impart them to the publick. Several letters, written from France, make also mention of its having been seen in sundry parts of that Kingdom, as at Lyons, Tholouse, Toulon, but not at Paris; no more than it hath been observed at London, or in any other part of England, that we can hear of by any certain relation. An 