: 257 2XII. Fartber Observations on the Processfor con7verting cast; intv rnalleable Iron In a Letterfro Thomas 33ed-does, M. 1)* to Sir Joseph Banks, Bartv P 1R S Read May , 79XX DEAR SIR, bINCE I described to you the process known among the workmen by the term puddling of iror) I have several tirnes reconsidered the explatlation I attempted irl the same lettern of the pllaenomena it presents. WIy explatlation could rlot indeed but be in great measure conjectural; and subsequent reflection excited in my mir2d a very lirrely vvish to ascertain) in a decislve manner, the rlatllre of the process. The followillg experiments mrill) I flatter myself, serve to determine thediegree of confi denceXwith which the pWrincipal points of ny theory may bereceived, though they will not afford a soltltion of all the (uestiOl/lS whlch my former communication might suggest to an acute philoso-pher. Tizey were urlciertaken in order tc:> ascertaDin, . whether any elastic fluids are really extricated during the conversion of cast: into malleable iron; and 24 what is their nature; and g. whether they vary at diSerent periods of -the process, as I con cluded from the appearances in the furnace. It seemed of lesss consequence to ascertain their quantity. I did not, hovever, neglect this object of inquiry, but you wsill find that-sorne very curiox circumstances prevented me from attailling ite 2S8 Dr. Bssoes's Observations on the Process forEXPERIMENrla I. Six pounds of dark grey melting cast iron rvere put into an eartherl retort ; a glass tube utas luted tv the neck, and its extretnity was itumersed in water. The retort was placed in a wilad furnace. Before the retort and its contents could be supposed to be red hot, inflamlmable air came overv It burned svit;h a deep blue flameg and was in no degree explosive. It retldered lirne-wzatet turbid, azld vv-as partly absorled. When the retort had beetl heated about an hour and half, the air, hich was comitlg over pretty copiously, that iS9 at the rate of an OU1]Ct nleasure every three minutes, upon an average, suddenly ceased, and the apparatus, on examirlation, proved to be; no longer air-tight. Tlle retort ntas fourld to be cracked; and the lumps of iron 11ad rlone of therrl beela melted but they llad been softened, and conglutinated togetller. EXPERIMENT II. Four oullces Troy of the same iron utere put into one of fMr. WEDGWOOD>S ear2cIlen tubes) glazed and closed at one end.t Tilat t?nd of the tube svas irzelosed in a barrelshaped crucible,0 tlle interstice filled with satld, ancl tile crucibie reclilled soi dS to form a very small angle witi-l the horizon: itz other respects the apparatus vtvras disposed as before. 011 the application of heat, air was again extricated, sooner vllan I shotllel llarre e2cpected, vf the salme inexplczsive inflammable killd. AbOtlt oneseventh of that whicll canze over first, and s^7hich traversed the water of the receivillg vessels, was absorbed by milk of lime. rrhe residue burned slowly, with a flame apparently not so deep as before the carbonic acid was separated. Ixl this arld the fortner experiment, the elastic fluids were converting cast into malleable Iron.2S9tuost rapidly extricated on the first impression of a red or 0 white heat. AfterwJards they callle over lnuch more slourly ; during a considerable part of this experimetlt you might coun-t twelve slowly between e+7ery air-btlbble. Whetl the utmost pon er of the furnace had beell exerted Sor three hours, a phaerlomenon occurred wthicll produced some surprise in every person presellt; and there were several who had been abulldantly accustomed both to chylmical and metallurgical operations. A considerable absorption tooli place, and for ahout half an hour, it was necessary to blow air up tEle glass tube, toprevent-the rater from rising into contact with the iron. -It aftersvards appeared that the lead of the glazing was revived, :wllich sufficien-tly explains the absorption. 586 grains ollly of tlae iron had been completely fusecl. The surface of tvo of the untnelted lurnps was curiously covered with numerous srnall blisters of metallic lead. About seven hours after the fire was first kindledg it svas discovered that the apparatus had iSailed. I had examined the air that came over immediately before this acciclent, both hy means of lirrlewater, alld milk of liLne, avvithout disc(3vering aIly vestige of carbonic air. The iron sveighed altogether three grairas more than at first. But the adhering lead, and a quallti1;y of lead also svhicll Jas illcorporated witll the iron, concealed a real, and probably a considerable, loss of weight. The phnouletla it exhibited, WheIl pUt iIltO w7eak vitriolic acid, and the vitriolated lead wilicll ssras formed, indicated the presence of this tnetal in a11 the superficial parts of the mass. \hen il; had been kept some time in vinegar, it dissolved readily enollgh in vitriolic acid at first7 but the solution soon ceased, or became very slosv. 260 D?:. BEDDOES'S Obsersdtions On the Process forEXPERIMENT III. A coated flint glass retort was etnployed in this instancec The apparatus resisted a strotlg heat for two hotlrs; and airs of the heavy inflamnzable kind catne constantly over. E XPERI MENT IX . A coated retort of crosvn glass, containing six ounces Troy of the same iron, 7aS plaed OY1 a crucilble tlearly -full of sand, and disposed as in the forrner esperilnetts. I 1lCNv wished to lneasure the quantity of the alr and I theret8ore determined to receive it in merctlry. It wtould have been 111 vain to attempt this in water, ola accoullt of the carlsonic acid air. About tvelve ovclocli the retort was judged to be of a -dull red heat, and inflammable air calne over. The orifice of the transmitting glass tube vstas now covered to the depth of half an inch with mercury, when the discharge of air il;lstantly ceased: the lute seetned entire. Some of tlle rtlercury being remoured, so as toleave just enough to cover the mouth of tlae tube, irnmediately the air issued agai in bubbles, a proof that the apparatus was entire. rthe mercury was poured into tlle trougll agaira, and in an instant tlaere wtas a cessatiorl of air. The mouth of the tube being uncorrered atld a lighted paper applied, a blue flarne appeared and cotatinlled to hurn, so great was the quantity of air discharged. lUle orifice of the tube ras one-tenth of an inch in diameter. We found that this constant flame could t)e prodtlced at any time during three hours alld an laalf. When water was substituted in place of zuercury) air issued slowly, and as if with difficulty, under a presstlre of five illches. When only half an inch was left over the mouth of the tube7 small 1!3ubbles ascended freely. Durig converting cast info mctlleable [ron.26ta considerable tilne I counted four, slowly, between eacll of these bubbles. I did not collect above three ounce measures of air, and this contaitled carbolaic acid. It was past four onclock wllen the apparatus ceased to be air-tightn and the fire had been kept as strong as possible. rflle iron was most completely fused. There was a good deal of revived lead within tlle reCort; there were also Inany glosbules ira the neck. Probably some broken flirlt glass had been added to the usual tnaterials for crown glass; I cannot othersvise account for the appearance of the lead here. In the last experiluent the lead of tlle flint glass 11ad been revived. EXPERIMENT V. Two ounces of the same iron, immediately upon being taken out of a retort, in which they had been kept, at a red heat, for about aa hour and a halE, anc} whickl >tere therefore as free from s-vater as iron ca-l easily be procured, were put into ala earthetl tube, unglazed, and closed at one end. This tube was clisposed as in experil:nent II, only the end of the glass tube was imnlersed in mercury, instead of water. You will not be surprised to 11ear that air did not now come over so soon as in any former instance. When the fire vv-as raised to its full force, exactly tlhe satne amusing variety of appearances took place as in the last experiment. Under the pressure of half an irlch of rnercury, ilOt a particle of air sZas discharged; but the moment the plessure +vas diminished to a small fraction of an inch, tlle bu-bbles succeeded each : otller pretty quickly ; and so on repeatedly. UpOll lowering the surface of the lnercury, and pouring some water UpOIl it, I received -more thar two ounce measures of air, which, by the test of li-ne-vv-ater, MDCCXCI It. M m -262 Dr. BEDDOES)S Observatios on the Process for did seem to contain a vestige of carbonic acid, but it was too minute to be appreciated. This experimetlt with tlle air vas nade after a strong white heat had been kept up for t}ree hotlrs. Soon aftersrards the bubbles ceased; but +ve could not then, nor upo) exami1atioll of the apparatus when cold diSCOVer antr fai1Ure. tithe ISre WaS St;l1 kePt UP fOr three hOI1rS. THe tUbe mUSt haVe been eXPOSed 0 a STrOng B7hiTe heat seven hours in all. Tlle iron had lost eleven grairas in weigllt. ()tlly about one half had been thoroughly fused. The surface of two lumpss that had not been fused-, had the close texture, arld silvery appearanceX of malleable iron. The th-in edges yielded to the strolke of the harnmer, and a gentleman, perfectly collversant itl the nature of iron, agreed svitla me that it had a11 the characters of mallecable iron. EXPERIMENT VI. Thirty-one grains of -artificial plumbago, ill shining flakes fronl the iron works, were exposed in a sluall retort to a stroIzg -heat, for six hours, in the same pneumatic apparatus. It vvas difEcult to separate, even by the help of the magnet, a11 the intimately mised particles of iron, and there were also a fesv particles of coak incorporated with the plumbago. Air, of an explosive inflamlnable kind, was extricated, and rose freely through five in-ches of mercury. We had not been sufficiently careful to let the lute fix before we commenced the experiment, and it soon failed. Upon taking oWthe pressure of the mercury entirely, and repairing the lute as well as sve could} we had every reason to believe that tTle air soon ceased. The air received in the mercury contained oneeighth of carbonic acid The remainder exploded. The plumbtago lost fbur converting cast into malleable Iron.;Erair1S. Mr. PELLETIER if I remember right, founal fthat native plutnbago, exposed to a fierce and long continued heaty lost to grains in 200. -In the present experiment, its appearallce wtas unaltered. Probably t}ze loss svas outing to moisture imbibed by the particles of coak, and to a s1nall combustion by tlle air in the retort. It svill, I think, be admitted that these experiments abutzdantly confirrn the inferences I had formerly drawn froln appearances by their nature less decisive. 'lnhe real extrication of air, varying in its nature at variotls periods of tIze process, seems to be placect beyond doubt. The experiments in glazed and glass vesselsa were made svith a view to exclude the possibi lity of the supposition OI the air entering through the pores X think that Dr. PRIESTLEYN if he should repeat these experiments.^ and find that they llave beetl accurately luade, will with his accustolned openness to convictiorl, abandon an opinioll he llas for some tirtle entertained) and no longer consider water as essential to the constitution of elastic fluids. Several observations rnight be made UpOll this point, and tlaose which I have just noticed above; but they 7ill readily occur to persons conversant in chymistry, and it is not the object of the publications of the Royal Society to teach the elernents of science. I sha11, therefore, confille rnyself to the unexpected and anomalous appearalacesn alld then attempt to draw a few useful * P uterences. . I was stlrprised at tan-e extricatioll of inflaanm-able air in such low degrees of heat. You llave seen that cast irony highly charged wzith charcoal (tlae pblogisto onustum of BERGMAN) yields air at the tetuperature of melting lead. For undoubtedly the blisters of lead, which lay upon the lrotl are to Mm 2 264 Dr.BEDDOES)S Obser7vations on tbe Process forbe considered as air bubbles caught in a solid film of lead. Perhaps white cast iron would not yield air so readily; possibly iron lzolds i-ts charcoal with nore forceas it contaills less * < lnterlc W to malie SONle comparati>re experim.etats UpOll the va rieties of cast iron, but so curious -an appearatlce as tlaese blistez s will always be rather the bounty of acci(leint thatl the eiect of skill or labour. -The obvicSus rnethod to produce . them +^rould be to cover the iron with lead. All the unmelted luinps of irorl were porous, and operz ill their texture. 2. I anz at some loss how to explaill the occasional discharge and cessation of air, in one experiment in vvhich a crowla glass retort uTas used and in another vlth an unglazed earthen tube. lnhere was no flaw in theluten nor in the vesselsn for it vas sdischarged for the space of several hours utader a sluall pres sure. Either) then, it utas forced througla tEle softened glass in the frst and the dilated pores of the tabe ill the second case; or it w-as absorbed by the substance -of the vessels-; or it svas not extricated fkom the iron Of tllese suppositions t}e third seems to me the most probable. It is not likely that an hole should be xnade through the melted glass urlder tlae pressutre of the half and closect under that of perhaps tile eighth vf an irlch; or tllat pores in the tube shollld open and slout in con fornnityto such a variation of circutnstances: and with re. . gard to the tuben there can be no question as to absorptiono One principal difliculty as it appears to rnes in the matlufacture of iron is to get rid-of tlle charcoal.* sThe oxygene readily enough tInites with a small portion ; but the attraction of the iron on the one harld, and on the other, tlle little dis position of the charcoal to put orl tl1e elastic form ill comparison with many other less fixeel substances together fortna converting cclst ztro mcllleble Iron.rery considerable obstacle to the change of charcoal info air; arld as I lnave already observed, the irotl probably }olds t-he charcoal lnore strcngly as its qantity (liminishes. In this state of thing;s a small adelitional impedilment will prevetlt the heat froln throwing the charcoal into the state of air; and some degree of pressure maIst be ade£luate to this eSect * and why may not this points from svIliCEl as you recede on Qp posite sides, the attraction of the particles of charcoal for one another5 or for iron, either shall or shall not be overcome lDy heat, have been found in these; experiments ? The llext COllSideratioil will both illustrate and confirtu the.se ideas. . A chymist, tshose nOtiOllS Of iron are derived principally from books, and frorn tlae phxrzonerla which are) presented by prencesses not having metallurgy for their immediate ob Ject, will be apt to consider sotme thillgs related above as irconsistellt: the violence of tIze heat, for instance, and the smallness of its eSects; since even cast iron was not fused in all the experimerlts. The fact iS7 WheIl cast iron exposes alarge surface, and heat is gradually applied) it proves almo-st as infiasible as malleable iron: indeed, by the gradual action of heat it is converted,-^superIScially at least, into malleable iron, or approxirxlates towards it: arld consldering oilly iron and charcoal, I believe, tbe fusibility of iron will be directly as theqaantity of ckfarcoal it conltains. Novx iI3l the experinaetlts I have described) pieces of one, two, and three drachms, and sometitnes less, were vlsed, forslarger could not be inserted into tlle rleck of the retor. And, ill order to avoid this inconvellience in future I would recommetld cylirz(llers to be cast, of a diameter sait-ed to the mouths of tlle vessels. This infusible coat would 1)e an ilnpedimexat to the conversiotl of the parts below by e6f; Dr.-BEDDoEsss Observations on the Process Jorpressitlg UpOll them; the elastic fluids cotlld not eitller traverse the solicl surface so freely as a liquid, azad perhaps, as I aln disposed to believe, they cotlld not traverse it at all. The malleable skin seerns close in its texture atld tIze porosity of the rest mig71t arise from the generation of just air enovgh to prodllce an i]teral expallsioll. Il1 the puddling operation, it is of the lnost lnaterial consequence to keep the mass irl constatlt agit-ation. Thus the parts are thoroughly blelldeds the attraction of cohesioll is a good deal counteractetl, and there can be no pieces llide-boun(:l, if I may so explsess lmyself. T1lis last, perhaps, is the greatest advantage derived frorll t1we labour of the workman. 4. I was asked by one of the most ingenious and proSoulad philosopllers of the present ag,e, why I had 1leglected the actiOll of the atmospheric air in the theory of the cotlversion of iron ? It is simply because its actiorl upon the metal seelms in practiG-e pernicious; I consider its presence as an evil, tTlough a necessary one, according to the present modes of workizg; I svas also ansious to try tllis opinion by the test of experinent) and you see it has been fully confirmed. In tlle last -experiluellt, part of the ircon wwas coluplet:ely collverted, aladin some otilers it seemed approaching fast tosvards nat^re, as the lnatlufacturers express it. It is, ixldeed, very possible tc) con-ceive a way in vVhich air might be beileficial; that is, if it -collld be applied $o as to burn the charcoal lmerely; bllt at present, for one grain of charcoal svhich it converts into carfbolic acid air, it Gollverts many of iren into flnery cinder; and as I have formerly shewn, this is not the way irl wthich iron is actually converted in the leverberatory, alld probably laot in the finery, furnace. converting cast into malleable Iron.267t. It is impossible to ascertain the principles of any art-> without immediately improving the practice, or capenillg a prospect of future improvetnent. The preceding observations lnay serve to direct attempts to render the meLallurgy of irotl less clifficult laborious, and expernsive. For, z. if a quantity of oxygene, nearly sufficient to burn the cllarcoal, could be chyxnically combined with the cast iron, the operation Would constlme-less fuel, alad would not require so long a time. It lnay be worth while to consider if the ores of il on9 colltaitling snangalzese, owe any part of their value to tllis circurnstance o. If it could be contrived to apply a sufficient lleat tog large quantities of iron in close vessels, and at the same tinle, to agitate therl^l suicientlyX the loss in collversion nZould notS perhaps, exceed ten in arl hundred. 03-. T}le inzportallt object of converting Brit;ish iron illtOsteel, may possibly be attained byfollosving up reflectiolls suggested by the foregoitig experinents. When the oxygene has been separated in the form of carbotlic aci(l-, there will rernain the charcoal and irol, the constituent parts of steel. Perhaps the materials, at a certain pe riod of tlle process, may be so rlea-rly approaching to steel as to be easily convertible. The tnass will contaill also a quantity of sulphur, otl wlwich perhaps the difficulty of making good steel from our iron d-epends. But this difficulty, I am persuaded, will IlOt be insuperable.. It zuay be proper to add, that whenever attention was paid to it, the hepatic smell in the extricated air was perfectly disting;uishable. I hope youzwill also permit.lue to add, thar; whatever infbrtnation or advantbage tnay be derixTed froln these facts aad 268 Dr. BEDDOES'S Ohservations on tbe Process for ObSeRVatiOnS, mUSt be in a greaT meaSUre aSCr;bed tO the 1ibera1 CUriOS;tY Of WILLIAM REYNOLDS, MThOSe en-erPriSing spirit and illventive genius have improved our machinery, enlar;ed our nzanufactures, and changed the face of a large distt ict in his llative COUIlty. I have the honour to be, &cd ShiEnal, Shropshire, Bebrua3ry 14th, I792. THOMAS BEDDOESo P. S. The reSidUU1n Of 486 graiI1S OF CaSt irOn, the Same aS t11at USed in eXPeriment Ie Weighed 482 grainSN aFter beinS diSSO1\red in Weak VitriO1iC aCid, and heated tO a dU11 red heat; the SaiMe qUanTitY Of ;rOn, after the eXPerimEnt, affOrded a reSidUUm Of 39 gra;nS, and a 1itt1C mOre; iX1 the reSidUUm 1eft bY eqUa1 qUantitieS Of irOn, befOre a]]d after the eXPeriment ;n the Ung1aZed tUbe, there WaS a differenCe Of fiVe grainS; the $01UtiOn Of the irOr1 that hAd been SUbmitted tO the eXPeriment Went On VerY S10WIY; and WOUId not haVe been eSeCted by vitriolic atid in man;y months. In the latter case, I used sozle snuriatic acidX hich rquickly dissolved it: in the forlner, veak aqua regia was used for tlle solution of a very slnall part of the whole lump. I suspected lead to have caused the slowness of the solution in tTle first case, but there carl be no such suspicion in the second. TIle differelace betsveen these resdaums tends to shew that pluinbago was consumed by the heat: but they do not shew the loss accurately; for in the re siduum of the iron that had been fused itl the first experiment there was a small qUalatity of vitriolated lead ; and in the other tosvertsng cast int0 malleablelrta269tllere wass besides lie plumbago a:small quarltity of thatfidifficultly soluble calx of iron, whch the solutiorss of this tnetal deposit on long exposure to air. The diSerence was greater therefore, than -it gppeared. On the other hand*, the long action of the atid-ws might have consumed some plumbago. There was little or no cals attractable by the magnet in the residuums of the fused irollo From the 48 grains of residuum:s I separated more than six grains by the-magnet.tIDCtSCIt 