XVII. Experiments and Observations to investigate the Nature of a Kind ofSteel, manufactured at Bombay, and there called Wootz: with Remarks, on the Properties and Composition of the different States of Iron. By George Pearson, M. D. F.R.S. Read June 11, 1795. ? I. DOCToR SCOTT, of Bombay, in a letter to the President, acquaints him that he has sent over specimens of a substance known by the name of wootz; which is considered to be lt kind of steel, and is in high esteem among -the Ildians. Dr. S&uO TT mentions several of its properties, and requests that an it Oquiry may be instituted to obtain further knowledge of its nature. This -gentleman informs the President, that wooitz "4 admits of a harder temper than any thing known in that "s part of India,; that it is employed for covering that part of " gun-locks which the flint strikes: that it is used for cut"ting iron onw a lathe; for cutting stones; for chizzels ; for "making files; for saws; and for every purpose where excessive hardness is necessary." Dr. SCOTT observes that this substance "cannot bear any thing beyond a very slight red heat, "; which makes it work very tediously in the hands of smiths ;, and that "; it has a still greater inconvenience or defect, that "of not being capable of being welded with iron or steel; "tot which therefore it is only joined by screws' and other Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments, &e. "contrivances." He likewise observes, that when wootz is "heated above a slight red heat, part of the mass seems to "run, and the whole is lost, as if it consisted of metals of dif"ferent degrees of fusibility." We learn also from Dr.SCOTT'S letter, that "1 the working with wootz. is so. difficult, that it is a "separate art from that of for ging iron." It will be proper' also to notice his observation, that "1 the magnetical power in "an imperfect degree can. be communicated to this substance." ? 2. Mechanical. and obvious Properties.. The specimens of wootz were in the shape -of a. round cakes. of about five inchesbin diameter, and one thick; each of which weighed somewhat more than two pounds. The cake had been cut almost quite through, so as to nearly divide it into two equal parts. It was externally of a dull black colour; the surface was smooth; the cut part was also smooth, and, excepting a few pinny; places and small holes, -the texture appeared to be uniform. It felt about as heavy as an equal bulk of iron or steel. It was tasteless and inodorous. No indentation could be made by blows with a heavy hammer; nor wasit broken by blows which I think would have broken a like piece of our steel., Fire was. elicited on collision with.. flint.. Under the file I found wootz much harder than common bar steel not yet hardened, and than. HUNTSMAN'S cast steel not yet, hardened. ' Iit seemed to possess the hardness of/some kinds of crude iron, hu t did not effectually resist the file like highly tempered steel, and many sorts of crude iron: for although theteeth of the file were rapidly worn down and broken, the wootz was also reduced to the state of filings.. The filed surface was of a bright bluish colour, shining like hardened steel; but some parts were brighter than others; andthe most shinS24 Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments ing places seemed to be the hardest parts: hence perhaps the reason of the surface being uneven, and a little penny. Not-. withstanding this uneven and pinny appearance of the filed surface, a polish was produced, which was I think at least equal, if not superior, in brilliancy and smoothness to that of any steel I ever saw. The wootz filings were attracted by the magnet like common iron filings. A cake of this substance being broken in the part nearly cut through, the fracture exhibited the grain and colour of rather open grained steel, but it was not nearly so open as I have constantly seen the grain of a bar of cement, or blister steel. The grain of wootz was most like that of blister steel which has been heated and hammered a little, and also like some kinds of refined crude iron. The specific gravity of wootz, and several specimens of steel and iron, was found, by Mr. MORE and myself, to be as follows. No. i. Wootz 7.1-81 No. 2. Another specimen of wootz 7.403 No. 3. Ditto forged 7-647 No. 4. Another specimen, forged 7.503 No. 5. Wootz which had been melted 7.200 No. 6. Wootz which had been quenched while white hot 7.166 No. 7. Bar steel from Oeregrund iron 7.313 No. 8. Ditto hammered _ 7.735 No.9. German steel barsaid to be directly from the ore 7.50o No. io. Ditto quenched when white hot 7.370 No. 1i. Melted steel wire 7.500 No. 12. Ditto, another parcel 7.460 No. 13. Piece of hammered Oeregrund steel bar after quenching when white hot 7.555 and Observations on Wootz. X$ No. 14. Another parcel of ditto 7 7.570 No. 1il. Piece of samffe bar hammered, but not hardened by quen6ching 7698 No. i6. Piece of steel which had been often heated and cooled gradually 7.308 No. 17. HUNTSMAN'S steel hammered 7.916 No. i8. Ditto, another specimen -7.826 No. 19. Ditto, another specimen 7.83o No;. 20. Ditto quenched when white hot 7.771. No. 21. Ditto, another specimen so quenched 7.765 No. 22. Piece of a file quenched while white hot. to produce the appearance called, open grain 7.35S No. 23. Another specimen of ditto 7.405 .No. 24. Piece of same file, but not so quenched 7.46c No. 2'5. Another specimen of ditto 7.585 Nor. 26. Piece of very hard steel 7.260 No. 27. Hammered common steel 7.794 No. 28. Another. specimen of ditto, and hardened by quenching 7.676 No. 29. Softest and toughest hammered iron; from PARKES, an iron merchant 7.716 No. 3o. Another specimen of ditto 7.700 No. 31. Another parcel of ditto 7.780 No. 32. Another specimen of ditto 7.787 No. 33 Common hammered iron 7.6oo No; 34. Another specimen of ditto 7.450 No. 35. Cast or brittle iron re-melted* 7.0192 * E R o M A N states the specific gravities of steel and iron as follows: I, steel 7,643. -2, Ditto 7,775.--3, Ditto 7,727..-4, Ditto 7,784.-S, Ditto indurated 7,693.6, Wrought iron 7,798.-7, Ditto 7,829. MDCCXCV. U U 526 Dr. PARSON'S Experiments ? a,. Efects of Fire. Until the substance was made red Ihot I could not scarcely make any impression with a hammer; nor could it be cut through by a chizzel, or wedge, till it was ignited to be of a pale red colou r. It had then the peculiar smell of iron: it was then malleable, but was much more liable to be cracked and'fractured by the hammer than common steel; or than, I think, even cast steel. Small and thin pieces are perhaps malleable at lower. degrees of fire, but. very slowly, and not without great care, and management. That ingenious artist, Mr. STODART forged a piece of wootz,, at the desire of the President, for a penknife, at the temperature of ignition in the dark. It received -the requisite temper.* The edge was as fine, and cua as well as the best steel knife. Notwithstanding the difficulty and labour in forging, Mr. STODART from this-.trial. was of opinion, that wootz. is superior for many purposes, to any steel used in this country. He thought it would carry a finer, stronger, and more durable edge,. and point. Hence, it might be particularly valuable for lancets, and other chirurgical. instruments. Mr. MORE got a piece-of wootz beat into a thin plate-: in: this state the texture, did not seem to be uniform, but appeared to be" of different degrees of hardness or-kinds. A large piece also was forged into a thick bar for SirTHOMAS FRANKLAND. .(a) The pieces which had been cut in the ignited state abovementioned had smooth surfaces, with-a few small cavities. (b) The substance made white hot., by the forge, had the glassy smooth surface of iron, in what is termed the weld-* "X At the temperature of 45o0 of F A H R E N H E I T S scale."-Mr. S TO-D A R T S letter to the President. and Observations on Wootz. 3 ing, or the weIing* state. On striking it gently under the hammer, it was cracked in many places : and by a hard blow it was broken into a number of small-pieces, as crude iron and cast steel are at this degree of ignition. (c) The surfaces of the fractured pieces (? A. b) were black and ragged, or, as it is termed, had no grain. Two or three pieces indeed had yellow and reddish spots; but these were merely tinges from the fire, and disappeared on applying a few drops of muriatic acid. (d) The pieces (? A. c) when cold were readily broken. Some of the fractures exhibited a bright silvery foliated grain, of seemingly an homogeneous substance, as frequently appears on breaking:-steel which has been quenched, when white hot, in cold water; and as also appears on breaking steel and crude iron which have been repeatedly ignited and cooled gradually; but many of the fractures of the small pieces were gray and close grained. (e) ''A piece of the substance was ignited to whiteness, and then quenched in, a large bulk of cold water. It was rendered much harder than before, so that a good file rubbed off very little. I cannot however from this experiment determine whether wootz is susceptible of a greater, or so great a degree of hardness as some kinds of steel used by the English artists. (f) The piece (? A. e) 'vas ignited in a close vessel, and let cool in the ashes of the fuel. It became much less hard, but I never could by annealing bring down the temper to the de.gree of any of our steels: on which account it is far more difficult to forge. The interiorparts of a thick piece of wootz could not scarcely be softened at allby annealing. * This term being from the German word wellen. Uu 2 S2$ Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments (g) A piece of the substance, about 500 grains in weight. (wrapped in paper to afford carbon enough to prevent oxidation, without supersaturating the metal with carbon) was exposed in a close vessel for above an hour to a pretty considerable fire. On cooling, the substance was found to have re,tained its form, but it was of a slate-blue colour, and many round particles as large as pins heads adhered to its surface, as if matter had oozed out by melting. The degree of fire, indicated by WEDGWOOD'S pyrometer, .was, 1400. A piece of our steel, which had been a part of a file, was exposed in a similar manner, but to rather more fire. It retained itsform, and its surface remained smooth. A piece of crude, or cast iron, by exposure to this degree of fire, under the circumstances jusftmentioned, was fused: but in a temperature of about 120 its surface became covered with a number of smooth roundish masses, as if fusion had begun. (b) 5oo grains of wootz were exposed as in the former experiment, but-to a fiercer fire, in my forge. The temperature was 1480; which is .23 more than Mr. WEJGWOOD states he could produce -in a common smith's forge. My forge is moveable: the fuel is contained in a pan of cast iron lined with firewbvricks, as proposed. by Mr. MORE: the bellows are only of the 22 inch size. In this ire the substance was melted with the loss of a few grains in weight. The surface was -quite smooth. It broke under the hammer like cast steel, It received as fine a polish as that which had not been melted. Under a lens the polished surface appeared quite uniform and close, with.a few pores at equal distances. The polished unmelted wootz had still fewer pores, and at unequal distances, but with several fissures. -Its grain, in the opinion of Mr. cnd .Observations on Jaootz, $,9 $?rODART, was like that of cast steel of the best quality c onseqpntly it was uniform and rather close. Its specific gravity, as already stated, was about 7,200. Coo grains of steel wire melted under the circumstances just mentioned. The mass which had been fused was fractured in the same manner, and had the safrme kind of grain, as wootz which had been melted. I did not always succeed in melting woouz and steel, ale though the fire denoted by the pyrometer was of the same, or a higher temperature than that in which at other times they were melted. Nor is this result difficult to account for by those who consider the different temperatures in different parts of the same fire; even supposing the instrument to invariably indicate the real temperature; (i) Equal weights, namely, 500 grains of wootz, steel wire, and gray pig iron, were exposed, for half an hour, in the same crucible well covered, to a pretty considerable fire. On cooling, the pig iron was found to have been fused, but the other two states of iron had retained their form, The pyrometer was contracted to near the 14oth degree. (k) I melted -togetherBoo grains of steel wire and oQ grains of gray pig iron, in a close vessel, without any addition of carbon. The steel -so alloyed was more brittle than cast steel. Its grain was coarser, and it had 'not the uniformity of textureand colour of melted wootz (? A. h); but -had more resemblance to sopie of the fractures of the unmelted wootz 3. ? 4. Effects of Fire and Oxygen Gaz co;Uointly. A piece of wiootz ignited to wlitenes4, being exposed to a Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments blast of air in the charcoal fire of the forge, emitted sparks like those of iron, and steel, in these circumstances. -At the same time it melted in the state of oxide of iron. ? 5. Experiments with diluted Nitrous Acid. (a) 200 grains of the substance under examination were first digested, and afterwards boiled in three ounce measures of concentrated nitrous acid mixed with an equal bulk of water. A dissolution took place, with a discharge of nitrous gaz. The mixture, reduced by boiling to half its bulk, was diluted with water, and while boiling hot was filtrated through paper. Excepting a few grains of black matter, the whole mixture passed -through the filtre. The filtrated liquor evaporated to dryness afforded matter, which after being kept red hot for two hours was a light spongy reddish substance:. that weighed 270 grains. (b) 30 grains of the reddish substance (? A. a) digested -in half an ounce of concentrated acetic acid,-on. filtration and evaporation to dryness yielded one grain and a half of gray matter, which was ascertained to be oxide of iron. (c) The blackish matter left upon the filtre (? 5. a) was re*peatedly digested in diluted nitrous acid. The filtrated liquors on evaporation afforded at first a few grains of oxide of iron, and at last a very minute quantity. (d) 6o grains of the reddish matter (? 5. a) with a bit of sugar, were digested in diluted nitrous-acid, The filtrated liquid on evaporationa to dryness yielded a few.grains of a brownish substance, which after many experiments, was found -to be oxide of i-ron. Of these it will be satisfactory if I menand Observations on Wootz. ?yw tiori, that a little ofthe brownish substance fused with the fluxes by the flame and blowpipe, did not, afford a reddish or purple glass from the exterior or white flame; nor a colourless one from the interior blue flame. The experiments (? 5. a--d) were also made on steel wire -with the same result. (e) A few drops of diluted nitrous acid were applied to a piece of polished wootz, steel, and iron. The parts of the wootz and steel SQ wetted became black, but the iron was made brown.. ? 6. Erperiments with diluted Sulphuric Acid. This acid liquor was made by mixing one measure of concentrated sulphuric acid with three of pure, water. Before I felt any degree of confidence in these experiments with respect to the carbon, and the proportions of hydrogen gaz from wootz and water, I repeated them often ; but I here think it necessary to relate only one experiment. 200 grains of wootz, from the surface of which oxide, and any other extraneous matter, had been carefully rubbed off, were put into, a retort with five ounce measures of diluted sulphuric acid. In the temperature of 550 of the room, in twenty-four hours, about a pint measure of gaz, came over into a jar filled, with, and standing over, lime-water ; without any disturbance of its transparency, or diminution of the bulk of thegaz. The liquid in the retort became, green, and a quantity of black wool-like sediment appeared upon the undissolved wootz. On 'applying the lamp the dissolution went on rapidly, and black matter continuedto be' separated, and gaz to rise, till the whole of what seemed to be soluble in the menstruum. SSTDr. PEAntSON'S Eperiments disappeared. When about three-fourths of thd matter were dissolved, a white sediment like the siderite of BERGMAN be. gan to appear, and increased as the dissolution went on. By standing, still more of this white sediment fell down, and green crystals, apparently those of sulfate of iron, formed a stratum which lay over the white matter. The black matter adhered to the sides of the retort, it appeared also upon the surface of the liquid, and some of it was deposited under the white sediment. This experiment was made with steel wire, and the toughest iron wire. The phenomena during the dissolution of steel 'were the same as those last related; except such as obviously arose from mechanical differences in the substances to be dissolved. In particular the quantity of insoluble black matter, of white sediments and of green crystals, was apparently the same. But with respect to the phenomena of the dissolution of iron, there was one material difference between it and the dissolution of wootz and steel, namely, that the liquor was not turbid and black, but clear, with a very small quantity of black matter upon its surface. It is however proper to state, that seemingly the same kind and quantity of white sediment and green crystals were produced as from the dissolution of wootz and steel. I think it of consequence also to notice, that the black matter appears in the greatest quantity when about half, or threefourths of the matter is dissolved; but after this period, although gaz be separated in as great quantity as before, the black matter seems to diminish. Hence I was at first inclined to conclude with Mr. BERTHOLLET, that part of this black or carbonaceous matter was dissolved by the gaz, but I think I -and Observations on Wootz. 333 shall prove, that no such combinationtakes place; and I now consider it to be most probable, that the diminution arises from the dissolution of the last portions of adhering iron. With respect to the quantities and nature of the gaz separated in this experiment: / i. The quantity of it from each. hundred grains of wootz, on trials at different times, was found to be from 78 to 84 ounce measures: the mean quantity was therefore 81. II. The gaz from each hundred grains of steel wire, after many trials, was found to be from 8,3 to 86 ounce measures: the mean quantity was therefore.841. iii. The gaz from each hundred grains of bright iron wire, by many trials with the same and different parcels of wire, Was found to be from 86 to 88 ounce measures: the mean quantity therefore was 87. It is to be understood, that when the quantities of the diffferent parcels of gaz were compared with one another they were measured at the 'same temperature, and under the same degree of pressure. It is likewise to be understood, that whenever the solutions of wootz, steel, and iron, were made at the same time, and under the same circumstances as far as known, there was uniformly a smaller bulk of gaz from wootz than from steel, and from steel than from iron. The smell of the gaz from the above three substances, was that of hydrogen gaze but I thought that from, wootz had a stronger and mnore offensive smell than from steel; and that from steel was more offensive than from iron. I could perceive no difference in the kind of flame, and explosion, between these three parcels of hydrogen gaz: they MDCCXCV. X X 284 ~ Dr. PEARSON'S Experzments burned inthe same manner as comraon hydrogen gaz. from sulphuric acid, i-ron and water. Portions of' the above gazes mixed: with oxygen gaz, from oxide of manganese, were burned i~n close vessels by the electric fire, over lime--water. I could perceive no. difference in the combustion between the gazes from the above different substanes nor any difference in; the gaz from. the same substance at different Stages of the dissolution. I did not perceive the lime-water to be at all disturbed in' its transparency on my first trials; but in subsequent ones, on viewing it more attentively,;and in a good light, it was pefteived to be very slightly turbid. It was equally go wilth all theparcels of gaz. To -sa-;tisfy myself further, at the ti"me I made these experiments I exploded the mixcture of inflammable gaz, obtaine& by -deconpounding water withwhite hot'charcoal of wood,. with oxygen gaz; by which t he lime-water was rendered quite milky. This inflammable gaz -birnt very slowly, affording a.deep blue lambent flame.$ To determine the quantity, and ascertain the nature; of theundissolved black matter in this experimenF poured the sotutions, while -boiling h6t, upo filtres of three folds of paper,. and freed the, filtres from the adhering solutions by pouring. boiling -water upon them. The paper wasstained Mack by the-solutions of wootz and steel, asfari as -the liquid reached, but ;the paper was only stained black at theapex of thecone of the filtre by the solution of iron.. The quantity of black matter on -the filtres from the two former solutions was apparently six or eight times more than from the solution of iron: but it ad. 'hered too-firnmly, and was in too-smnall a quantity, to deterlnine t-hproportioiaccurately-by-weight, I-estimated the quantity .ad .Obseatio~ns an Woot%. 835 of the black matter to be one per :ceant.qf; e sap and wootz, and a proportionally smaller quantity from b fron. On account of the very black and turbid appargnce durrig the dissolution of Wootz and steel, I -as much surprised by the smallness of the quantity of black matter on the filtres; o1: could I by experiment find that any of it passed throu~gh the. filtres with the solutions. This black matter being sprinkled upon boiling nitre, a deflagration took place, and a largeproportion of residue was found, and ascertained to be oxide of iron. The black matter was therefore a compound of iron and carbon, or, as some chemists term it, plu mbago and which in the -new system is denominated a carburet of-iron. I estimate the quantity of carbon in wootz and steel to be nearly equal; and that quantity to be about one Athird of a hundredth part, or 3 of the weight of these two substances. 1 am in the next place to give an account of the solu~tions just mentioned of wootz, steel, and iron. On staiding, it has been observed, there was a deposition of white matter, and formation of green crystals in a liquid. The liquid being decanted, was examined, and found to. be sulfate of iron and superabundant diluted sulphuric acid. The green crystals were obviously those of sulfate of iron. The white matter I supposed was the siderite of BERGMAN ;Which is now believed to be phosphate of iron.I made many experiments to ascertain _its !nature, but it is only necessary to state; that it readily dissolved in hot-water, and the solution afforded nothing but crystals of sulfate of iron. These crystals, by dissolving in. a httle water, and y -boiling to leave behind Xx 2 . 36 Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments wateriinsufficient for crystallization yielded-on cooling a white sediment as before. T-This white matter yielded colcothar, a red oxide of iron, by applying th, flame with the blowpipe. The white. matter therefore was not siderite but sulfate of iron, which could not crystaEizton account of deficiency of water ? 7. Experiments witb Oxide of Wootz, Steel, and Iron. 1200 grains of wootz dissolved by diluted sulphuric acid' and, then precipitated from this acid by pot-ash, yielded greenish oxide; which on drying in a stove became a reddishbrown light powder, weighing 2700 grains; and by ignitions it was reduced to 2000 grains. 300 grains of this oxide were made into a paste Fwith linseed oil; which, being wrapped in paper, was put into a crucible and exposed for nearan hour to a fierce fire in the wind furnace. "On cooling, a cake of metal weighing 200 grains was obtained, which had the essential properties of steel. The pyrometeir denoted 0o6 of fire. The result was the same on treating oxide of steel, and of iron,. in the same manner as w'ootz. CONCLUSIONS. Many, of the properties of wootz, related in the preceding experiments and observations, are so generally known to be those of the metallic state of iron that, but for the sake of order, I should think it superfluous to refer to any of them particularly, to support the conclusion that wootz is at least and Observations on WOotzb principally iron. Wootz is proved to be iron by the obvious properties (? 2.); ;by its filings being attracted by the magnet (? 2.); by its specific gravity (? 2.);' by its affording nothing but sulfate of iron, hydrogen gaz, and a trifling residue, on sou lution in diluted sulphuric acid (? 6.). With regard to the particular state of iron, called' Wootz; I think I cannot explain its nature satisfactorily, without,first relating the properties, and explaining the interiorstructure, of the principal different metallic states of iron. I imagine.I shall be best able, to execute this design by stating precisely the justmeaning of the terms, which denote, commonly,' the three principal metallic states of iron, namely, wrought or forged iron, steel, and, cast or raw iron. Ai. Jroug1ot or forged iron I understand to be that which possesses the following properties. a: It is malleable and, ductile in every temperature; and. the more readily the higher the temperature. b. It is susceptible-of but little induration (and if pure it is most probably susceptible of none at all) by immersing it, when ignited, in a cold medium; as in water, fat oil, mercury. Nor is' it on the contrary susceptibleof emollition by igniting, and letting the fire be separated from it very gradually. c. It cannot be melted; without' addition;but it may be rendered quite'soft by fire, and in that soft stateit is very tough and malleable. d. It can easily be reduced to filings. e. By being surrounded with carbon for a sufficient length of-time at a due temperature, it becomes steel. f. It does not become black upon its surface, but equally 33's Dr. PEAARSON'S Experiments brown, by being wetted with liquid muriatic and other acids. g. By solution in sulphuric and other acids, it affords a reva sidue of less than A of its weight of carbon; and if it could be obtained quite pure, there is no good reason to suppose there would be any residue at all. ii. Steel I understand to be that which has the following properties: -a. It is already, or may be rendered, so hard by immersion, when ignited, in a cold medium, as to be unmalleable in the Cold; to be brittle, and to perfectly resist the file ; also to cut ,glass, and afford sparks of fire on collision with flint. b. In its hardened state, it may be rendered softer in various degrees (so as to be malleable and ductile in the cold), by ignittion and cooling very gradually. c. It requires upwards of 13o0 of fire of the scale of WEDGWOOD'S pyrometer to melt it. d. Whether it has been hardened or not, it is malleable when ignited to certain degrees: but when ignited to be white, perfectly pure steel is scarcely malleable. e. It becomes black on its polished surface by being wetted with acids. f. Much thinner and more elastic plates can be made of it byhammering than of iron. g. The specific gravity of -steel which has been rmelted and hammered, is in general greater than! that of forged iron. b. With the aid of sulphuric acid it dcOmpoullds a smaller iquantity of water than an sequezl weight -of forged iron. i. It decompounds water, in the cold, more slowly than foraged iron. and Observations on Woolz. k. By repeated ignition in a rather open vessel, and by hammering, it becomes wrought or forged iron. 1. It affords a residue of at least its weight of carbon on dissolution in diluted sulphuric acid. m. It is more sonorous than forged iron. n. On quenching in cold water, when ignited, it retains about . of the extension produced by ignition; whereas wrought iron so treated returns to nearly its formermagnitude. III.: By the:term Crude, or Raw Iron, I understand that kind of iron which possesses the. following properties: a. It is scarcely malleable at any temperature. b. It is commonly so hard as to resist totally, or very considerably, the file., c. It is not susceptible of being hardened or softened,' or but in a .slight degree, by ignition and cooling. d. It is very brittle, even after it has been Attempted to, be; softened by ignition and' cooling gradually. es It is fusible, in a close, vessel, -at about 1.o0 Of WEBGla WOOD'S pyrometer. f. With sulphuric acid it generally decompounds a -smaller quantity of water than an equal. weight of steel. g. It decompounds water in' the cold 'more slowly than ,wroughtiron.; A. It unites to oxygen of oxygen gaz as slowly, or more slowly than even steel. i. By solution in sulphuric and other acids, it leaves a resi due not only of carbon, but of earth ; which exceed the quantity of residue from an equal wqight of steel. k. It is perhaps more sonorous than steel. S40 Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments With respect to interior structure: I. wrought iron is to be considered as a simple or unde-1 compounded body, but it has not been hitherto manufactured quite free from carbon; which is to be reckoned anlimpurity.: The least impure iron, as indicated by properties, is that which possesses the greatest softness, toughness, and strength ; but if it be soft, independent of combination, it will of course be of the toughest and strongest quality. To denominate it from properties, I would call it soft malleable iron: and from internal structure, it should be called pure iron, or iron., The ore from the deep mines of Dannemora produces the purest iron. It is in England called Oeregrund iron.* It is al.most the only iron manufactured Which by cementation affords what our artists reckon good steel. ii. Steel has composition. It is a compound of iron and carbon, the proportions of which have not been accurately determined, but may be estimated to be one of'carbon and 300 of iron. I would call this state of iron frotm external properties, hard malleable iron: and from interior structure and composition it may be called, as in the new system, carburet of iron,. *Steel of the best imaginable kind is that which has not yet been manufacturedi: for it is that which has the most extensive range of degrees of hardness, or temper; the greatest strength, malleabiiity, ductility, and elasticity; which has the greatest compactness or specific gravity, and which takes the finest polish; and lastly, which possesses these qualities equally in every part. Steel made by. cementation, of the best quaO Qeregrund is not the name of the country in which the ore of this iron is gotten; or of the place where it is manufactured; but it is the name of a sea-port town, frdm Chich The iron of Dannemora was formerly exported. and Observations on Wootz. lity, which has been melted, approximates the nearest to this kind of steel. Its greatest defect is want of malleability. iii. Crude or raw iron is a mixture, and has composition. It consists of pure iron united, and mixed with other substances so as to be hard unmalleable iron: but the substances with which it is almost always mixed and united are three, viz. oxygen, carbon, and earth. I would term this state of iron, on account of external properties, hard unmalleable iron; and on account of structure, impure iron. In this statement of the interior structure of the different states of iron I have not thought it necessary to reckon the impalpable fluids, which they contain in perhaps different -proportions; V-iZ., light, caloric, electric, and magnetic fluids: for I believe their chemical agency has not been ascertained. Iron may also contain a much greater quantity of carbon than has been above stated to be a constituent part of steel; and this state of iron is hard, unmalleable, and is not uniform in its texture. It may be called, according to the new -nomenclature, hyper-carburet of iron. It is liable to be produced by cementing iron in a very high temperature for a very long time, with a largequantity of carbon; and it is also produced by melting iron, or steel, with carbon, There are innumerable varieties of the first explained state of iron, viz. wrought iron. Some of these are familiarly known and distinguished by names among artists. Different quantities of carbon, which is here an impurity, are the occasion of these varieties; but as the carbon is not en sufficient quantity to diminish the toughness, softness, -and malleability, to such a degree as to produce the obvious qualities~6f stel, such vaMDCCXCV. Yy 842 Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments rieties are reckoned to be those of wrought iron. The carbon may however be. in such proportion as to produce a state of iron, which in some degree possesses the properties both of steel, and wrought iron ; or which possesses partly the properties of steel, and partly the properties of wrought iron. It is quite arbitrary to call such kinds of iron, steel or wrought iron. There are also innumerable varieties of the second state of iron explained, viz. steel. Some of these are known and distinguished by artists. A greater, or smaller, proportion of carbon, than the quantity requisite to saturate the iron, is the cause of these varieties: which are reckoned varieties of steel, because they possess in certain degrees the distinguishing properties of steel. Besides these varieties of iron and steel depending upon carbon, there are other varieties from extraneous substances of a different nature. These are most frequently oxide of iron, or o&ygen, and silica ; especially in steel from the ore. The presence of phosphoric acid has been shown to be the occasion of the variety of iron, named cold -short; which is brittle when .cold, but not when ignited. And thereis another variety called red short, which is malleable when cold, but brittle when ignited; the cause of which is supposed to be arsenic. Iron and steel may contain an extraneous substance, and yet possess the properties of good, or even the best kinds of these metals: for this is the c.ase when they contain manganese; as the fine experiments of Professor GADOLIN, made under the direction of BERGMAN, have demonstrated. There are states of iron which are mechanical mixtures of steel and wrought iron. This is more or less always the caseand Observations on Wootz. 843 with bar steel, made by cementation. If the bar be thick the interior part will bemere iron. Lastly. There are different sorts of steel and wrought iron, from the difference of mechanical arrangement of their parts. So the specific gravity of steel by cementation may be increased by fusion, or hammering, and its grain altered. I have been told, that it may be hammered in the cold till it is so brittle that a slight stroke will break a thick bar. By quenching close-grained hammered steel in cold water, when ignited to whiteness, its specific gravity is diminished, its grain is opened, and it is rendered much harder. These distinctions will perhaps serve to explain the nature of many varieties of the different states of iron, differently named by artizans, namely, pig-iron; charcoal, and coal pig, or sow iron; blue, gray, white cast iron --soft iron; tough iron; brittle iron; bard iron ;-ore steel; cement steel; blister steel; soft steel, hard steel; hammered steel; cast steel; burnt steel; over cementedi steel. I shall next endeavour to show to which of the above states of iron thewootz is to be referred, or to which of them it most approximates. It appears that wootz is not at all malleable when cold,. and when ignited it is difficultly forged and only in certain degrees of fire. It can be tempered and distempered, but not to a considerable extent of degrees (,? 3. f, g). The range of degrees of fire at which it is forged is of less extent (? 3. and ?_ 3. c) than the degrees -at which it can be tempered, (? 3. and ? j.fg). It vies with the finest steel in -ts polish. Its specific gravity, which is less than that of hamYy 2 344 ~ Dr. htPARSON'S Expaeiments -nemed 4i:on is very little diminished by ignition and cooling rapidly (? 2. No. 6.). It melts, but at -a higher temperature than crude iron (:? g. i, k). It is not easily reduced iinto filings, even after annealing (? A. g). Its polished surface grows black by being wetted with acid (? So e). It is not so brittle as raw iron, nor even as steel (? 2.). On solution in sulphuric acid and water, it affords about the same quantity of carbon, and rather less hydrogen gaz than steel (? 6.). From these and other properties related in the preceding experiments and observations, it is evident that wootz approaches nearer to the state of steel than of raw iron; although it possesses some properties of this last substance. With regard to the kind of steel to which wootz is to be referred ; it is not of that sort in which there is either an excess or deficiency of carbon (p. 341, 1. iS, et seq.); but it must contain something besides carbon and iron, otherwise it would be common steel. It appears that the solution in nitrous (? A.) and diluted sulphuric acids (? 6.) contained only oxide of iron, and the residue of carbonaceous matter, as in common steel. Hence it is obvious to suspect that wootz contain's oxygen, either equally united with every part of the mass, or united with a portion of iron to compose oxide' which is diffused throughout the mass. That this is really the ingredient in wootz which distinguishes it from steel, seems to be proved, or at least consists with its properties. For it accounts for the smaller quantity of hydrogen gaz than .was afforded by common steel (? 6.): it accounts for the partial fusion (? 3. h): it accounts for the great hardness even on reducing its temper (? 3.g); for its little malleability (? 3.); perhaps it is the reason of the fine edge and polish and Observations on Wootz. $.i4 .( ? 1,.? .)3. The expriments (S ?: .g, -:k) confirm this tzonclusion. The oxide is not perhaps equally diffused, hence the wootz is not quite uniform in its texture and hardness, until it has been -remelted(5 ?. :i). The brittleness ;of woodtz whetI white hot ( A. -g:) is a; property of cast steel; and vshows that it contains no veins, or partiles -of wrought iron,: and also that it has been melted. Common steel, which is all made by cementation, is very malleable, when white hot, only perhaps because it contains iron which has escaped combination with carbon. The proportion of oxygen in wootz must be very small, otherwise it would not possess so much strength, and break with so much difficulty (?-2.), and much more oxide would have melted out (? A. h). This oozing out of matter is analogous to that which appears on refining raw iron. Although no account is given by Dr. SCOTT of the process for making wootz, we may without much risk conclude that it is made directly from the ore; and consequently that it has never been in the state of wrought iron. For the cake is evidently a mass which has been fused (? 2.), and the grain (? 2.) of the fracture is what I have never seen in cement steel before it is hammered or melted. This opinion consists with the composition of wootz, for it is obvious, that a small portion of oxide of iron might escape metallization, and be melted with the rest of the matter. The cakes appear to have been. cut almost quite through while white hot (? 2.), -at the place where wootz is manufactured; and as it is not probable that it is then plunged in cold water, the great hardness of the pieces imported, above that of our steel, must 34S Dr. PEARSON'S Experiments, &c. be imputed to its containing oxide, aand consequently oxP ygen. The particular uses to which wootz may be applied may be inferred from -the preceding account of its properties and composition-: they will also be discovered by an extensive trial of it in fthe innumerable arts which require iron. 