III. Experiments and Obserznations on the Production of Ligbt from dXerent Bodies, Zoy Heat and by Attrition. By Mr. Thomas \Vedgwood; cornmunicated; by Sir Joseph 13ankst Bart. P. R. S. Read December 22, 1791C BEFORE I begin to state the experimellts ^rhich are the subject of this Paper, it may rlot perhaps be ilnproper to give a very compendious history of the discoveries ^rhich have already leen made relative to phosphoric bodies; omitting, hosstever, the elect-rical phosphori, and such as are evidently consumed or decotnposed in the emission of their light, as these are well knosvn, and are too numerous and itnportant to be slightly noticed. PLINY was well acquainted with the luminous appearance Qf rotten vood, and of the eyes of dead fish. From this time I find nothing relative to the phosphorism of bodiesn till the beginning of the sixteenth century, when BENVENUTO CELL-fNI, in his Art of Jewellery, mentions hishaving seen a carbuncle shine in-the dark like coals nearly burnt out; and relates a story of a coloured carbuncle having been fourld in a rrineyard near Rome, by its shining ill the night. About the year 16g9, VINCENZO CASCARIOLO, Of Bologna, discolrered, by accident, that when a certain stone found in tlaat llei$hlbourhood wasc 28: Mr. T VVEDGWOODJS EEeriments and ObservvBtions &c. 29calcirled in a particular manner, it acquired the remarkable property of absorbing the light of the sun, of retaining it for some time, and of emitting it in the dark : subsequent experitnenters found it to do the same with the light of a candle. In 166g, Mr. BOYLE observed a pkarticular diamond to give out a light almost equal to that of a glow-worm, wherl heated, rubbed? Or pressed; and investigated very fully the nature of the light of dead fish, flesh meat, and rotten wood. In 1677, BALDWIN of Misnia discoveredn in the residuum of a distillation of chalk and nitrous acid, a phosphorus sitnilar in its properties to the Bolognian, but not possessing the phosphoric virtue in so eminellt a degree. In 170t5, Mr. FRANCIS HAWEESBEE found that glass rubbed on glass, in common air, irl the vacuum of an aipumI3, or under vvatere sc exhibited a collsiderable light." In 1724, M. Du FAY discovered that almost all substances which could be reduced to a calx by fire only, or after solution in the nitrous acid, absorbed atld elmitted light lilie the phosphorus of CASCARIOLO and of BALDWIN ;-\ and that some diamonds, emeralds, and luany other precious stones emitted light irl the delrk after beillg ex)osed to the rays of the sun. About the same tirne, BECCARTA of Turin found aImost every body in nature to be lumSinous after a similar exposure: he added, too9 this very iluportant discovery; that an artificial phosphorus, exposed to the ligllt irl a coloured glass vial, emits, in the dark, rays of theidentical colour of the vialo Mr. MARGRAAF, by arl analysis of the lE3olognian stone, shews that it contains vitriolic acid united to calcareous earth, and that allgypseous stones treated like vlle 13010gnian, provided they are pure from iron9 becolue phosphorescent. About the year 1764, Mr. (:ANTON mad-e a plaosphorus of sulphtlr and oyster-slells calcined together, arsd 3O 7<r. '. WEDGWQOD*S Experiments and Otvsertpatiomlistinguished himself by rnantr curious experimellts made with it; he found that his phosphorus might be lmade to shirle hy heatitlg it, after it had cq'sed to be luminous of itselE, but that tlle same 11eat u ould 11arre thos effect ivr a certain titne onlye I4eat has beetl observed by se6rera1 of these plrlilosophers to promote tlhe elmission, and to shorten the duration? of tile light of PhOSPhOri. ]S1UOr has bee11 10ng knON5T1w1 tO giVe a fine br;g1<t 1ight When heaEd . D. HOFFMAN discovered that red blerde and feldspat were lulmilaous when pieces of eitlaer were rahloed togetherQ POTT extende-d this discovery to all pure flints alacI crystals and to porcelair1. KEYSLER fouled glacies l:narix to be luminous>7hen heated. M. DE LA METI-IERIE has observed some neutral salts and calcareous earths to be lumitzous in the same way. The C:ount de RAZOUMO\57SEI. in a Metnoir of the Phy sical Society of Lausanne, shews that quartz and glass give out light, when struck by almost any hard body and that sorne few other bodies are luminous when pieces of the same kind are rubbed upon one anotller; he llinds quartz to give out its light under water This brief account includes, as fiar as I am able to collectg the chief discoveries whicll have been lua(le cotlcerning lumi nous brodies. I was led to make the follou7i1lg experiments fioorn observing the light which proceeds from tsro quartz pebbles rubbed against each other . I searched for t}iS property in many other bodies with successs but met riths tvo soft stones vXlich did 1lot afford arly ligllt UpOll the most violent attrition. Conceiving that heat tnight probably be the cause of the ligllt e1nitted by quartz frorn attrition I attributel this Silure tv a want of sufficietlt hardness in tllese friable stones for producitlg tlae necessary latat. =^&ccordinglyn sprirlkling solne or the Production of Light from Bodies.3'1of their posorder on a plate of iron llearly red hotn I hztd the satisfaction to observe it emitting a ccxrlsiderable light. Extending this mode of trial, I found that the phosphorism o f almost all bodies might be made apparent either by heat or by attrition ; I; shall therefore divide the subject of this Paper into two parts; I. On the light produced by Heat. --IIe On the light produced by Attrition. I. The best general method of producing the light by heat is, to reduce the body to a moderately fine powder and to sprinkle it, by small portions at a time, on a thick plate of iron, or mass of burnt luting lmade of sand and clay, heated just below visible redness, and removed into a perfectly dark place. The following is a list of such bodies as I havefound to be luminous by this treatment, arranged according to the apparent intensity oftheir light. . Blue fluor, froln Derbyshire, giving out a fetid smell on attri tion. 2. 13Iack andgrey marbles3 alld fetidsvhite marbles, fromDerby. . snlre. Common blue fluor, from Derbyshire. Red feldspat, frortl Saxony. Diamond. Oriental ruby. Aerated barytes from Chorley, in Lancashire Comlmon whiting. Icelarld sparv Sea shells. Moorstone, from CorllwallO $ Mr T. \EDGWOODS E4erlmentsrand Observations White fluors from Derbyshire. , Pure calcareous earth precipitated frole an acid solutionO argillaceous earth (of alulm) siliceous earth. ew eart-h, firom Sydney Cove rm * tomtnotl magnesla. Vitriolated barytes, from ScotlatldO Steatites from CortXvalle Alabaster. Porcelain clatr of Cornwallh Mother of pearl. Black flint. Hard white marble Rock crystal, from the East Illdiest White quartz. Porcelaill. Common earthen waret Whinstone. Emery. Coal ashes. Sea sand. Gold, platina, silvrer, copper, iron, lead, tin bismuth cobalt9 zink. Precipitates by an alkali from acid solutions of gold, silverX copper, iron, zink, bismutht tin, lead, cobalt, mercuryy antimony, manganese 77itriolated tartar, Crystals of tartarX . . < presrlously exslccatedX Borax, AlumX on the Prodctiorz of Lightranz Bodiss.33Sea coal. White paper, ) lillen, > in small piecese woollen, ) hair powder. Deal sawdust. Rotten wood (not othersvise lutniIious). White asbestosf Red irony mica. Deep red porcelain. f. Antimony, nickel. Oils; lalnp, linseed, and olive,White wax, >* luminous at and below Sperlmaceti, beiling. Butter, The duration of the light thus produced from different bodies is very unequal; in sozne the light is almost moznentaryg in others it lasts for some minutes, and may be prolorlged by stirring the powder on the heater. It soon attains its greatest brightness, and dies avvay gradually from that point, never appearing ill a sludden flash, like the -light of quartz pebbles rubbed togetherO If blown -upon, it is suddenly extinguislleds but imulediately re-appears on discolltinuing the blast. The light of bodies is, in general, uncoloured; there are, howerrer, some exceptions. Blue fluorg of tlaat liind which gieres out a fetid smell when rubbedg first emits a brighe green liglat, resernbling that of the gloss-Xvorm so exactly, that when placed by the insect just as it llas attained its greatest brightness, there is no sensib1.e diSerence in tlle two lights, either of colour or illtensity. This bright green gtlxcKly MDCCXCIt . F t llq>. TX V?EDGWOOD}S -Eee-tzieMs anS Obsertationschanges into a beautiful lilac which gradually fades amJay. Fe tid marbless and some kinds of chalk, gisre a bright reddiish or orange light; pure calcareous earth a bluish white light; Qornish rlloorstone emits a fine blue ligllt 7 powcler of ruby gives a beautiful red light, of short continuance. The NlOSt phosphorescent marble is so-ft and friable, of a coarse crystallixed grainy and wa fetid odour when rubbed; black and grey marbles are generally more luluinous than the white. Most of the common white marbles are hard, and of a fine grain, and they are rzot very luluillous, rlor is tlzeir light of an orange colour Diffierent chalLks vary as much as different narblesS in the intensity and colour of their light svhen no diffierence of extex nal structure is perceptible. Tlle nzost; phosphorescent chalk loses the brilliancy and redness of its light by being disso]ved in an acidX and precipitated by caustic fised vegetable alkali-by being combined svithvitriolic or fluor acid by calcinatiotl by heat, or being conlbir}ed with tlle aerial acid in the pellicle formed on the surEace of limewater. Marble rould probably be affected in a similar manner. The most phosphorescetlt blue fluor gives tlPle satne light after being united to the vitriolic acidg though gypSlltn is far less luminous than fluorg alad its light is colcourlessv Argil precipitated from alum -by an alkali arld magnesia when coulbined with fluor acid, g;ve out the same light as before. Bo-dies enzit their light when i-mmersed infboiling acid o£ vitriols or in boiling oils; small lumps of fluor or of tnarble make a singular appearance in the acid,-as they are moved up and down by its action, and relldered brightly luninous by the heat: they seem equally luminous in purey fixed, iIlflamlnabley or atmospheric airff Feldspats the fetid fluor, and probably all phosphorescerlt on the Production of kzghtJ:ronz Bodies.:35bodies, dropt, in moderately fine powder, into a flask containing a small quantity of boiling oil at the bottom, emit a copipus flash of light as soon as the powder touches the surface of the oil ; vfhen the particles of the body have ]ain at the bottotn of the lleated fluid for abollt a minute, they become but faintly luluinous; if the flask be then agitated so as to raise some of these particle$ out of the oil, and lodg;e tllem oll its sides, they $uddenly rekindle illtO the satne brightness as at first, and pre ser^7e this-re-assulued lustre for solue time; and erren after being again ^lashed down into the oil, they may be readily disS tinguished from the particles svhich have remained at the bottom. This e:xperiment is extrernely beautiful, and is not at all s?bstructed by the faint light of the oil; it succeeds best witI the stinking blue fluor of Derbyshire. Powdered marble, and probably every other body, nvhen s}reail uporl the heater) in the receiver of an air-pump, is equally luminous during the exhaustiota and re-admission of the air. Bodies are by far most luminorls the first time they are heatedS but cannct, perhaps, be entlrely deprived of this pro perty by any nux7lber of heating;s, nor by any degree of heat. Cilalk, fluor, and feldspat, give out a very faint light on the heater, after having been exposed to a smart red heat in an open crucible, in strzall guantities, and kept frequently stirred for several hours; the feldspat was eqtlally luminous rhen laid hot upon the heaterg or first cooled, an-c! then laid on. Chalk and fluor were not tried in this particular. A bit of glass, lnelted itl a heat of 120° of my father's therluometer, and as soon as it is cold reduced to powder3 gives out light on leing throvvr upon the heater belosz redness }' 2 S6 Mr. T. WEDGWOOD'S E3cterients and ObservatlonsQuartz from the salne original piece, isequally luminous svherl the tozuder is clirectly thrown upon the heaXter-when it is previously tnade red hot, and tl>zetl cooled arld thrown on -or when a fraganent of sonte sire has been 7lade red hot, then poulldecl a-d thron on. For the most part, the softest bodies require the least heat to besome luluiaous; marble chalk fluorg &c. give a fhint light when sprinkled on tnelted tiniust becotning solid. As the temperature of the heater is raised7 tlley continue to give QUt uore and more light. ATitriols of iron-, coppers and zinkn previously essiccated, wllen throsvn on earthen ware or metal made nearly red hot, give minute flashes of light o:f momentary duration, such as appear from some of the metallic precipitates, particularly zinka on a sinilar treatment; with this di«eren£e, 11owever, that the light of most of the precipitates is of a reddislUl hue The light of the metals is white, and exactly similar to that of svtne earths. White paper, wlaen dippecl in a solution o:f sal atutnoniac, atacl slowly dried, becomes black upon the heater arld then gives out much less light tharl comtnoll paper. If a lump, of the size of a small bean, of fluorg marble> feldspat or any of the most phosphorescent bodiesg be laidL upon the heater, tlle light proceeds gradually upwards from the part ill contact with the heater, till the whole tuass is tlaorc)ughly illuminated ; if the same piece be heated a second time, it is much :tess lunlillous; nor, if it be brokenn are the fEagments at a11 Inore luminousn eitJher tlaen, or after having beeta exposed for a month to tlle light and sunshine. A little boiling oil at the bottom of a glass flask, svhen on the Production of Lzghtfront Bodies.7agitated in the dark, illusninates the whole of the flasktFhe Iight of boiling oils proceeds, probablyn firom some kilad of inflalnlnatiorl, as it is scarcely discernible unless the rressel be agitated; and, if a little oil be t}winly spread on the heater, a subtle lambent flatne, of a bluish htle, instatltly arises. The same thillg t:akes place if horn, bonew llair, saliva, or any arlimal matter be laid upon the heater. II. The experiments on the light produced from different bodies by attrition, were chiefly made by rubbing ln the dark two pieces of the same kind against each other: all that I tried) with a very few exceptions, svere lunairlous by this treatment. The followeing is a list of thetn, arranged in the order of the apparent intensity of their light, and as the lights are either white, or some shadle of red, I have affixed Egures t-o denote tllese diSerences; (o) denoting a pure white light; (1), the faintest tinge of red, or flame colour; (2), a deeper shade ofs red; (g) and (4), still deeper shades. . Colourless, transparent, oriental rock crystal; ancl siliceous crystals (o) . 2 . Diamorld (O) . . White quartz; svhite semitransparent agate ( z)* 4. White agate, lnore opake (2). Senrlitratsparent feldspat, from Scotland (2). Bravvn opake feldspatn from Saxony (4). Cllert of a dusky white, itarom North \Vtales (tg) * 50 Oriental ruby (4b) 6. Topaz; oriental sapphire (o)O 7. Agate, deep coloured, brown atld opake (49. BS Mr. TX WEDGWOODIS Experiments and Observations8-$; Clear, blackish gutl-flint (2). -g. Tawney semitratlsparent flint (S). lo. Unglazed white biscuit earthen ware (4). <t.Fine white porcelain (2). 12. Clear blackish gun-flint, made opake by heat (3). 3. Flint glass (o). o4. Plate glass ; green bottle glass (o). r. Fine hard loaf sugar (o). 6. Moorstone, from Cornwall ( 1 ). Corune, semitransparent, from the East Indies (1)* 7. Iceland spar (o) <8. White enamel (2); tobazo pipe (3). White Mica (o). . Ung;lazed biscuit earthen ware, blackened ky exposing itn buried in charcoal in a close crucible, to a vvThite heat (4.3 20. X Black vitreous massX lnade by melting together of fluor, l of lilne, arld some charcoal powder (4). t. Fluor; aerated and vitriolated barytes; white and black Derbyshire marble ; calcareous spar ; crystals of borax ; 0 deep blue glass; mother of pearl Rock crystal, quartz, flint glass, alld mantr other hard bodies, during attrition, emit now and then reddish sparks of a vivid light, svhich retain their brightness in a passage of one, two and even three inches, through the air. A piece of opake agate, applied to the circumference of a wheel of fine grit, revolving at a moclerate rate, becomes Xe Some of this mixture taken out of the crucible before it was periectly fusedS ,alre out, when rubbed, a stroI}g smell like phosphorus of urine; and on throwing some of it pulverized OI1 a plate of iron, heated just below reelrless, 1t was very lumi nous, and Spresented every appearari-ce of burning phosphorus on the Production of Lightfrom Bodies.brightly red, even in tlay-lightS at the touching part; if the wheelR revolve at a quicker rate the touching part emits a pure white light. In bor;h casess glowing sparks are continually emitted, some of which are not extinguished before they have passed tsvelve or fourteen inches through the air ; they explode gunpowder arld inflammable air, arl burn the skill; their brightness is not sensib}y increased by passing irlto pure air. The corrler of arl angular piece of window glass beillg applied to the svheel in rnotionn a full eighth of an inch of the glass above the point of contact becomes apparently, red hot, and retains the redness for a secorld or tsvo of time after its removal from the wheel ; during the attritlon, large red sparks are continually emitted, and a mixture of softened glass, arld the sand of the stone wheel, is collected about the touching point. Quartz, transparent agate,rock crystal, and window glass, give nearly tEre same flashing lightn when rubbed against the stone wheel, or in the ordinary tnanrler excepting the Etingc of red in the formers which it receives fi om the light of the grit: the trans13arent agate becom-es red hot for a little way about the part in contact with the svheelg and is thus deprived of its tratlsparency as it would be if made red llot in aX common fire; porcelain is heated to redrless by the same treatmentu QThe red sparks which are etnitted by a11 these bod-ies during their attrition, are heated particles about the magnitude of grains of fine sand, brokell otf by the friction. Bodies give out their light the instatlt they are rubbed upon each ather, and cease to be lul:ninou-s nrhen tthe attrition is dis continued. Colourless, transparent and semitransparent bodies emit a flashingSlight, their whole masses being, for a moO ment, illuminated; opake bodies give little ul:ore thana go Mr. T. WEDG\VOODSSExperiments and 0bservation$defined speck of red light, and are not lurninous belovvtTwe-part struck. 'rhe greatest apparent quantity of li;lat is prodalced by hard, uncoloured, transparentn and setnitransparent bodies whose surfaces soon acquire an asperity by rtlbbitlg together, as quartz, agate, Nc From an examination of the table, st appears tllat white lights are elnitted frc)n colourless transparent bodies; faint red, or flame-coloured, fron white seinitransparent bodies; deeper red from Ixlore opake arld coloured bodies, and the deepest red from opake and froln deep-coloured bodies. Extrelnely faint lights, such as tl-lose given by flllor, marble, &c. are of a bluish white-; quartz, very lightly rubbed, gives a-very faint light of a bluish hue, wllen rubbed a little harder, it emits a flame-coloured light; svlhen rubbed with viOlenc@ its light approaches to vvzhitenesse Opake red feldspat gives a deep red light by attrit;iotl; exposed to a strong heat in the furnace, it becomes svhite, atad sonewhat transparent, and when cool, gives out, on attrition, as white a light as quartz; clear, blackish flint, nade opake by laeat, gives a redder light than before; deep-coloured glass gives out a red defined light without any flash, whilst clear uncoloured glasses emit a white flashirlg light of $otne brightnessc Bodies are not luminous by simple presslare; but when they are at all broken by the pressure, the firagments rubbing or each other produce some light. Mr. BOYLE, indeed, found a particular diamond to emit light when pressed by a steel bodlrin; bllt the diamond is phosphorescent in so many vvays, and is so curious and singular a body, both in properties and COllStitlltiorl, that it can scarcely be expected to exhibit the same appearances as the common class of earthy bodies. Alum, indurated by having been kept lotlg in a state of on the Production of Lighl from Bodiesefusion, and being then mucll harder than loaf sugar or borax,both wkich are lulninotls from moderate attrition, gives 1lo light, though rubbed with much violence . If tsro pieces of glass or quartz be strongly rubbed agaillst -each other, and then applied to the fine dowll of a feather, the dowrl is not sensibly affiected; if the same glass be rubbed orl woollen cloth, and placed near the feather, the down is immediately attracted. Rock crystal, quartz, feldspat, whil;e unglazed eartllen ware, Derbyshire black marble, and probably all pElosphorescetlt bodies, insoluble in water, give out their light on rubbing them under water, as copiously as in air. HEard hite sugar, from the outside of the loaf, gives out its llght when rubbede in oiI. Bodies seem equally luminous in atmospheric, pure fixed, and inflammable, air. All hard earthy bodies emit a peculiar smell on attrition. -The most remarkable for this property are chert, quartz, feld spat, biscuit earthen ware, and rock rystal: this smell does not differ much in liind, though it does considerably in inten$ty. Many of the softer bodies yield the same smell, but in a less degree, and, probably, none are-entirely without it. It appears -to be strongest where the friction is greatest: it S The Collnt D.E RAZ OU M OW S K 1 has investigat ed the luluinolls property c)f bodies in a way which appears to me very urifavourable for the discovery of their true lights He rubbed, not one piece against another of the same body, but, all of them agaillst quartz or glass: he finds several metals luminotls from this treatment, and attempts to draw some CU1iOI1S conclusions from the colour of their lights. I tried these metals in his own way, and found that no light was emitted except when the violence of the blow shattered the quartz or glass; a piece of the indurated alllm will exc,ite light from rock crystal, by breaking its surEace, bllt this is the light of the fragments of the crystal rubbing on each other, arld not of the alum. MDCCXCII. (; +X Mr T. WEDOWOOD0S Experiments and Observation.shas no dependence on the light produced by attrition as itiis often rrery strong wllen no light is emitted. Rock crysta], quartz, feldspatn white biscuit earthen wa;re} and probably all such harcl bodies produce this smell under water. Quartz stones violently rubbed upon one another for a few minutes in a GUp of water, coznmunicate this slnell, and a peculiar taste to the w-ater. The taste is probably derived froman impalpable powder, hich floats ill the water for many dayse Derbyshire black marble and the stinkitlg blue fluor, girre out, on attrition, a strong smell peculiar to themselves, both in air and water; they lose this property by being once made red llot. Quartz produces the smell equally strong in fixedS pure, and common, airO Having now stated all the facts relative to phosphorescent bodies uZhicll I have as yet been able to discover, I shall beg leave to offer a few reflections tending to shew that heat is the probable cause of the light produced from bodies by attrition. The powders of all earthy bodies elait light when heated a little under redllessv Nosr, when two bodies are rubbed upon each other, it is-tobable that heat is always generated or their stlrfaces may not then tlle liglut which they yield upon attrition be attributed to a sudden heating of particles in their surEaces? for tllese particles will be affiected itl the same way as if they had been equally lleated by any otller tneans; they will therefore give the same light as if tlley had been laid UpOll the heater of an eqllal temperature. The slaining sparks wehich hard bodies send out during on the Prodaction oJ Light from BodiesZ3attrition, prove, that particles in their surfaces are heatecl at least to more than 6ooo of Fahrenheit, for the powders of hard bodies are not luminous on a heater lullch below redness. The lleat generated by the attrition of soft friable bodies is probably but little, as tlle minute particles in their surfaces are llOt much crushed w each other, but merely disjoined from the luasses; nor can tlais little be easily appreciated, foras tlle surfaces contirlually crumble away, the heated parts are carried oF before they can warm the masses, and are themselves very quickly cooled by the surrounding air. But as many so-ft bodies eluit a faint light on the heater at the low tetnperature of about 4000 of Fahrenheit, and as it is IlOt a stronger light which they yield on attriti-on, little heat is required to render the particles in tlleir surEaces lXtninous. It must be observed too, that thotlgh the absolute quantity of lleat generated by one rub be but inconsiderableX the eSects of it may be very striking; for 3t1St on t11e instant of attrition its action is confined to the minute colliding points of the surfaces, and will consequently operatexupoll them as much as a greater quantity svould O1X larger points. The liglzt emitted by bodibs ill attrition is of molnentary du tiOll, whereas a powder o] the heater continues to emit light for some minutes: this diffiererlce is easily explairled; in the latter case, the particles are constalltly heated; irl the fornzers they are irlstalltly cooled by the subjacent mass to a temperattlre in uZhich bodies are not lutninous, z. e. a little under «ooo of Fahrenheit. Bthen the uneverl surfaces of bodies are rubbed upon ea-ch otlaer, a flashing light is produced at frequetlt intervals, oy the 44 Mrv T. WEDGWOOD)S ExperiOnents and Observationscollision of the luore promillent parts; this, itl colourlesss transparent, alld semitransparent bodies is copiously reflected from the svhole of the tnasses, and forrns a11 appearance very difiretlt from svllaat is ever e+,(llibited by bodies on thewheater: it tnay bo vell illustrated in the upper part of a canclle, by repeatedly nearly closing, and quickly openitlg, the slluffiers, about tiae burning Mrick; or by sprinkling some powder of fluorJor lmarble on a mass of glass heated just urlder redness. Povvder of crys+al, quartz, agate, &c. is but faintly luminous orl the heater under rediless; accor(lingly, if the stozes tllemselves-be gently rubbed, a fhint light is emitted, resembling that wllich their powders give olu-t oll the heater. Marble alld fluor girre about the same light on tlle heater of the tempera ture of 4000, as they do when rubbed ; alld probably attritior heats solue particles irz their surfaces to that degree. It may, at first, seem all objection to the opinion of 11eat being the caluse of the light produced from bodies by attrition that they yield their Iight when rubbed under water ; but the water AGtS dirffierently to the air, otlly, as being a strolager coRductor of heat, and can nowrise impede tlae actual generation of the heat ; now, as hodies emit their llght! on the very instant of their being heated, the water CallllOt coOl the hot particles, before they have givel:l their light. It is easy to see vv-hy bodies emit light instclntly whez rubbed; for they often selld out sparks as soon as the attrition com -mences. which proves that particles in their surfaces are istantly heated to redness by attrition. Since hard bodres may be heated to redness by attritiol1, we have an excellent lnethod of discovering the light;s they giVe OUt on tte Production of LightJnrom BoPies. 43 at that temperature9 which could not be effested by sprinkling; their powders on a red hot heater, as the light of tEle powcler would be mixed with that of the heater. Ill sotme cases of attrition, bodies are raised to a temperature beyoncl visible red lleat. lnhe cc)r<er of an angular piece of willdow glass bWing applied to the circtl+tnference of a revolving wheel of fine grit, part of its mass is vorn asvay ; but a larger portioll, lyirlg just above the abraded part, is lleated to redness. Now,7as all the heat which is there collected, and a great deal more, vwthich is carried away in tlle abradecl part, and conducted off by the air and by theglass lying up to the red hot portion, h-as orlce occupied a smaller space in the part srrorn away ; it follows, that the alaraded 130rtion, or aggregate of heatel surfaces, has been heated to a degree exceeding redness9 by all the lleat remaining ln the-red hot part, anci by the quantity of heat condtlcted offby the air and the adjacent glass; and, consequently, that easzh surface has beell heated by the attrition to a degree as much ex ceeding redness. I am aware that this reasoning is founded, in part, on tlle supposition that the heat is generated on the surface or outermost coat of the body : so:ne of itm ay undoubtedly proceed from an agitation of parts under the surface; but the emission of: red llot sparks at the instclnt of attrition, prorres that a greatlaeat is getlerated otl the surface ; and, as the friCtiOl19 0U app=rellt heating causeg is so much greater there, that the parts are for ( ibly broken and disjoined, svhilst just beneath tllere is no per ceptible alteration in tEle body, we may venture to cotlclude that the heat gellerated beneatil tlle surface is but inconsiderS ab].eO 416 Mr. T. WEDGWQODSS Experivzents and ObservationsAfter all, itremains entirely problernatical, in what manner Ileat operates to produce light from bodies: the air does not seem to have ally concern in its production, as bodies are equally luminous in alnaost all kinds of air) atld hen immersed in liqelids. The phosphorism of sugar is probably of a different kind from that ofthe earthy^class; fors though so soft alld friable a substance, it prodllces its light very copiously UpOll gentle attrition. I1a speaking of tlae attrition of bodies upon the stone wheels I have said that they becazue red bot about the tc)uching part; I should not have made use of this expressiotl if the lulninous sparks, nrhich issued fixom thenl, had not killdlecI gunposvder and ilflarnmable air, and thus provecl that the part from rlaich tlley came svas raised to a temperature, at least equal to svllat is usually termed a red beat; for till the teluperature of tI-le part touching the wlleel had been thus ascertained, I attributed tlle hole of the light emitted to the COlllIXON pllosphorism of bodies. If the velocit:y of tlle wheel be tnuch increased, tlle touching part of the l)ody applied, emits a bright urhite lighlts ma-ch more vivid thall any svhich powders ever give out on the lleater, and, probably, tlae temperature of the luminous part is equal to what is usually called a 7Rftite heat. Having thus made incolubustible bodies red hot wvithout the aid of fireg I once collceived tlaat all tlae ligIlt which they esnit wllen heated to rediless in the fire, E)roceeded entirely from their great phosphorism; for I ccxuld not suppose tlaat they absorbed light from the burning fuel ancl emitted it again, at the same time, and during a corltinuance of tlle same circulnstances. It appeared, llowever, equally inexplicable, uThy a stone put ilato on tbe Production of Lzglptfron Bodies.47the fires should continue to shille from its ovvTn ligllt, with Ul1 clizninished lustre, as long as tlle fire is kept 1lp; for it has been shentn, that if a phosphorescent body remaill 1ol1g upon the heater, of aiay temperature between 4000 of Fahrenheit atld a red heats its light diminishes more and more, till at last it is scarcely perceptible; and then an increase of heat is xlecessary to render it more luluinousr , APP ENDIX ^;F'X'St a corlsiderable part of the above paper was printed I repeated the experl tnent with boiling oil, -reIated in p. 35, with elrery possibIe precaution.. I poured the powder into the flask through a funnel which reached to the l)ottoms so that norle of it might be lodged on the sides; ior9 not having attended to this circumstance before, . . I was apprehensive that the experilment was delusive., and that the agitation of the hot oil might have washed down some fresh particles which had not been before heated;then slowly pouring iIl a little oil, I boiled it for a few minutesv and removed it into a dark place. When the powder had become but faintly luminous, upon agitation, the experiment sllcceeded exactly. I then boiled and at,itated the oil for six or seven times successively9 with the same resultX except that the light of the powder grew something fainter each time. If any one has the curiosity to repeat this singular experiment, he may attend to the following directions.-Upon each removal from the fre, stop the neck of the flask with a cork9 having a small hole pierced. through it_ wrap the neck round with tomr-agitate the liquor by quickly raising and lowering the Rask. The sparks which leave the surfaces of hard bodies during attritioIl, may be exactly xmitated by lzllrning a bit of dusty paper;the particles of dust are carried by the. cur rcIlt of air through the blaze, and are made red hot in their passage 