II. Theory of the Reciprocal Action between the Solar Rays and the different Media by which they are reflected, refracted, or absorbed; in the course of which various optical laws and phenomena are elucidated and explained. BY JOSEPH POWER, M.A., Fellow of Clare Hall, and Librarian of the University of Cambridge: Member of the Ciambridge Philosophical and Antiquarian Societies, and Foundation Fellow of the Society of Northern Antiquarians at Copenhagen. Communicated by the Rev. J. CAPE, F.R.S. Received May 26,-Read June 9, 1853,-Revised by the Author, March 1854. i. FOR the train of thought which suggested the following considerations, I am more particularly indebted to the researches of Professor DRAPER of New York, contained in his remarkable work, " On the Organisation of Plants, the Chemical Effects of the Solar Rays, &c.," 2nd edit., New York, 1845. His experiments tend to show that the law of action and reaction, which prevails so generally in other departments of nature, is no less true in all the varied phenomena of the sunbeam, so that the latter cannot be reflected, refracted, much less absorbed, without producing some change upon the recipient tedium. 2. Whilst however I acknowledge my obligations to the author for the information I have derived from his excellent work, 1 wish carefully to guard against the inference that I agree with him as to the necessity of admitting the existence of more than one imponderable, being strongly of opinion that all the effects of the solar rays, may be attributed to some or other of the infinite variety of undulations of which the universal ether is capable, and which in the case of the sunbeam are impressed upon it by vibrations at the surface of the sun. 3. The vis viva, which has its origin in these vibrations, is transmitted through the ether with the velocity of light in extremely minute undulations of different lengths and periods. If then a sunbeam, fraught with a vast variety of such undulations,I be incident upon a tmiedium so constituted that its particles are capable of vibrating in unison, or even in harmonic consonance less perfect than unison, with some or other of the ethereal vibrations of the incident beam, it must necessarily happen that one system of vibrations will be called into existence by the other according to the laws of resonance. There may be a difficulty in explaining, but there can be no doubt of the fact, that the vis viva due to such induced vibrations, like that which is due to the vibrac 2 12 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. tions of heat, may become more or less persistent in the medium; producing at. one time the phenomenon of fixed chemical action, at another time that of permanently latent heat, at another time that less permanently latent or retarded heat, at another time that of coloration and absorption, at another time that of phosphogenic action. The remarkable phenomena lately discovered by Professor STOKES seem closely allied to the latter, differing however in the circurnstance that they cease to exist the moment the exciting rays are withdrawn. Guided by analogy, I am inclined to think that these phenomena will be found hereafter to possess some slight though insensible duration, while I regard all action which is really momentary as expending itselt upon the passing rays as they emerge in the form of reflected or refracted rays. But all these effects, of whatever kind, I regard as due to one and the same cause, which can, I conceive, be no other than the expenditure or distribution of the vis viva originally derived from the sun, and conveyed by the ether unchanged in amount. 4. By the term vis viva is here meant, the sum of the vibrating molecules each mlultiplied by the square of its velocity, a quantity which, by the usual dynamical theories, is constant, when we neglect the distant attractions (whose effects must be insensible on the all-but-imponderable ether), and take into account only the mutual actions of the molecules upon each other, in all cases, most certainly, when the molecules after being put in motion return to the same places which they occupied before their motion commenced, and there resume their former state of rest. It is extremely probable that this is the case in the propagation of a solar ray through the ethereal spaces, as we know that it is the case when a small vibratory pulse is in the course of propagation along a stretched wire, as also in every case of propagated undulations in which we can examine a the circumstances. We may further argue that, if the particles of an ethereal space, originally at rest, after transmitting a state of motion from a preceding to a succeeding space, were not again reduced to rest, the space first mentioned will continue to originate fresh motions, which would be propagated in one or more directions, after theformer wave haspassed; the ethereal space, therefore, after transmitting a luminous wave, would either continue for a while to be self-luminous, which is contrary to all we know of light, or else to be the source ofvibrations of a different nature to those which set it in motion; a supposition, which is so great a departure from simplicity, as to be extremely improbable; it is further, as before stated opposed to all the analogies presented by cases of propagated undulations in which the circurnstances are known. There is therefore scarcely room for a doubt that the vis viva of the luminous waves is transmitted through the ethereal spaces unchanged in quantity. There is yet another way of establishing this principle, which may be more satisfactory to some minds. Let p, p' denote the vires vivas due to a luminous wave as it spreads out spherically with the velocity (a), and crosses successively over the spherical surfaces 47rr2, 4,rr'2 in equal times (,-), r, r' being any two distances from the origin of the light regarded MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 13 as a point, and x the length of the undulation. Then, if i be the area of the pupil, properly directed towards the luminous point at the successive distances r and r', 4wrr2 and 4wrr12 will be the quantities of vis viva which pass through the pupil in equal times, and being condensed on the retina produce the sensation of light with brightnesses proportional to their magnitudes. This accords with the views of all writers on. the subject of physical optics. On the other hand, we know by experience, that 1 1 these brightnesses are as -P and r,-, consequenitlyp=p'; the ether intermediate to the two spheres in transm-nitting the luminous wave has therefore delivered over the vis viva unchanged in quantity. 5. Let us now consider what will become of the vis viva when the luminous wave is incident upon the plane surface of a refracting medium. I shall confine my attention in the present communication to a singly refracting isotropical medium, amongst the comparatively grosser particles of which the incomparably more subtle and more numerous particles of the ether are supposed to be diffused in a different state of density to that which prevails in the surrounding spaces, such altered density being due to the attractions or repulsions which the particles of the medium exercise on those of the ether. This being premised, we may regard the expenditure of the vis viva as of two kinds, according as it is distributed to the particles of the ether, giving rise to the reflected and refracted rays, or to the particles of the refracting medium. If it be expended solelv on the ether, the sum of the vires vivce of the reflected and refracted wvaves ought to be exactly equal to the vis viva of the incident wave; but if a portion of the vis viva be communicated to the particles of the inedium, the vis viva of the incident wave ought to surpl)ass the sum of the vires vivce of the reflected and refracted waves l)y a certain excess. 6. Trle object with which the present inquiry commenced was to take into account the effect of such supposed excess, in the hope of arriving at some explanation of the Stolkesian phenomena. The remarkable result I have obtained, that every loss of vis viva uill be accompanied by a diminution '?/ the refractive index, is quite in the direction of the author's own idea of "; a change of refrangibility ;" but I confess it throws no light on the change of period, which it is also necessary to account for. The latter, 1 am inclined to think, is due to an action of the nature of harmonzc resonance, and from some calculations which I have made, I think it probable that the light produced in the Stokesian experiments mav be due to resonant vibrations excited in the medium, which are about a major or minor third lower in pitch than those of the invisible rays producing them, the medium afterwards communicating those vibrations to thme ether as a new source of light. 7. Somte apology may be required for borrowing fromn the language of mlusic, terms explanatory of phenomena which cannot be heard, and in some cases neither heard nor seen; b~ut critical taste must be prepared to yield a general licence to physical inquirers to indulge in such catachreses of language, whenever they are called for by 14 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. the generalisation of ideas, for the expression of which, without such an alternative, a new language must necessarily be invented. 8. The mode of procedure which seemed most likely to lead to a successful result, was to assume in the first instance the hypothesis that the vis viva is expended solely on the reflected and refracted rays, and afterwards to modify, if possible, the steps of the process so as to adapt them to the hypothesis that a portion of it is expended on the medium, regarded as distinct from the ether by which it is permeated. 9. In adopting the more simple hypothesis I was really startled by the formula at which I arrived in the course of the investigation, for not only did the general or Cartesian law of refraction spring out most unexpectedly, as if by magic, but those very same expressions for the intensity of the reflected rays, which were first discovered by FRESNEL, and subsequently verified by the experiments of BREWSTER and ARAGO, were an immediate consequence of the formulae. But while my results are in pertfeet harmony with experience so far as the latter has proceeded, at the same time they differ from those of FRESNEL in some particular s. In the first place the index of refraction is not the simple quotient of the velocities of undulation, but of those velocities each multiplied by the density of the ether in the corresponding medium. In the second place, the vibrations of the ethereal particles are performed in the plane of polarization (and not perpendicular to that plane, as FRESNEL supposed), agreeing therein, amongst others, with MACCULLAGH, NAUMANN, and the earlier researches of CAUCHY, but opposed to the more recent investigations of the latter and to the experimental determination of Professor STOKEs*. Further, the expressions for the intensities of the refracted rays differ slightly in other respects from those of FRESNEL, as given in AiRY's Tracts; I am not aware that these intensities have been tested by experiment, nor are the refracted rays so readily accessible to the experimenter as the reflected rays. I may be permitted however to claim in favour of my own results, that in no one instance do I have recourse to forced analogies or gratuitous hypotheses, the process I have pursued standing in need of no such help. I adopt indeed universally the fundamental hypothesis that the vibrations on which light depends, and consequently those of the reflected and refracted as well as of the incident rays, are strictly transverse to the directions of the rays. I admit that this hypothesis, considered a priori, must be regarded as perfectly arbitrary; but it gains evidence, almost amounting to certainty, a posteriori when we take into account the immense variety of phenomena connected with the polarization and depolarization of light, of which it affords a simple and satisfactory explanation. I am aware of the difficulties which have caused other theorists to modify this hypothesis in case of the reflected and refracted rays ; but I do not think that those difficulties should be objected to me, who approach the problem in an entirely different way, and who take into account circumstances which have been neglected by them, namely, the vibrations communicated to the medium itself. It is not surprising that such difficulties should occur in a dynamical theory which takes no account of sucht* Cambridge Transactions, vol. ix. part 1. MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 15 communication of vibrations; indeed the statical condition of two contiguous ethereal media of different densities is iimpossible, unless we take into account the mutual statical actions between the particles of the ether and those of the crystal which it is supposed to permeate; much more are the dynamical conditions likely to be fraught with inconsistency, unless we take into account the mutual dynamical actions of those particles. I think it is considerably in favour of the present mode of viewing the problem, that no. difficulties of the kind under consideration are found to present themselves. 10. I confine my attention, as I have before stated, to an isotropical singly refracting tmediun, like glass or water, though I think, if I had more time at my disposal, I could extend the theory to doubly refracting crystals. A very simple integration gives me a general expression for the vis viva of an elementary cycloidal wave, in terms of the amplitude and the constants of the periodical function. By help of this I obtain two equations of vis viva, one for a wave whose vibrations are in the plane of incidence, and the other for a wave whose vibrations are perpendicular to that plane, both vibrations being transverse to the axis of the ray. By the principle of superposition, these two equations will hold true simultaneouely when the above waves are regarded as the components of one and the same wave. I obtain three other equations between the amplitudes, from the simple consideration that a particle situated in the common surface of the two media cannot vibrate in more than one wav at once. Of these three equations two involve the amplitudes of the first component wave, and the third those of the second. The five equations serve to determine, in terms of the angle of incidence and the component amplitudes of the incident wave, the five following quantities, namely, the angle of refraction, the two component amplitudes of the reflected wave, and those of the refracted wave. 11. By the help of FoURIER'S theorem we may decompose any form of undulation, extending between given limits, into a series of elementary cycloidal undulations, varying in wave-length, amplitude Wand orientation; and, again, a wave whose orientation deviates from, the plane of incidence, or a plane p erpendicular to this passing through the axis of the ray, may be resolved into two, one in each of the above planes, which I shall term respectively the primary and secondary planes. Let 0 be the angle of incidence of a cylindrical beam or incident ray; and let y=h sin A (at+x) z=k sin 2 (at+x+c) represent the displacements due to any one of its cycloidal elementary waves, resolved parallel to the primary and secondary plane, x being the distance from the point of incidence measured along the axis of the ray, (a) the velocity of undulation, and t the timne measured from some epoch anterior to incidence. 16 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. From these two equations we may readily derive the following, (27rc\YZ z *2 ,-2C tA Ykkcos --sin giving for the motion of an ethereal particle, in general, an ellipse having its centre in the axis of the ray and its plane perpendicular to that axis. The constant c determines the difference of phase of the two component waves; if the phases be coincident, we have c=O, in which case the above equation becomes k .Z~ Trhe-particle, therefore, performs its vibration in a straight line inclined to the axis of y, that is, to the plane of incidence at an angle whose tangent is . I shall call this the angle of orientation: denoting it by ry we get k tan ry=) k 2 tan2#Alko In general it is not difficult to show, by the usual method of transformation of coordinates, that the major axis of the elliptic orbit, whose equation has been exhibited above, makes with the plane of incidence an angle of orientation (Y) determined by the equation 2hk/ I 2' tan 2hk cos2A If h=k, ry= in both cases; the linear radius of vibration and the axis mnajor of the elliptical vibration are therefore inclined to the plane of incidence at an angle of 450. In the particular case of hk=k and ctan 2y=?, and is therefore indeterminate, but in that case the equation becomes Y12+ z2=h2. each particle therefore describes a circle about a point in the axis of the ray, and all traces of orientation disappear. It is needless to state that the three cases, which have here been briefly discussed, are those usually distinguished as belonging to plane polarized, elliptically polarized, and circularly polarized light. 12. By the theory of superposition of small motions we are at liberty to considler MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 17 each component wave separately. Let us first take the primary component whose displacement is in the plane of incidence and determined by the equation -h2v y=h sin .(at+x). In order to determine the vis viva due to one undulation, let a be the distance-of the particles of the ether from each other; the medium being isotropical, W Will be the number of particles contained in a unit of line, and the number contained in a unit of surface, in whatever direction the line or surface may be turned: the interval a being supposed extremely small compared with x the length of an undulation, a will be the average number of particles contained in a portion dv of A, which 2irlha 2T may be regarded as vibrating with the common velocity cos -2(at-x) found by differentiating the expression for y with respect to t. The vis viva of a single line of vibrating particles at the given instant (t), therefore = , from x=x to x=x+X. This is easily found to be -A ; and it is worthy of remark, though this is no more than we ought naturally to expect, that the result is independent of the phase at the beginning and end of the integral. The same will be true of every length A of particles which constitute the incident cylindrical beam, whatever may be the nature of the phase at the two extremities. Let e be the oblique section of this beam made by the common surface of the two media; then w cos 0 is the transverse section of the incident beam made by a plane perpendicular to its axis, and X ,,2 is the number of ethereal particles in this section. Hence to obtain the vis viva of one undulation of the incident beam we have only to multiply 2v2Ma2 X cos 0 2r2k2a2w cos B the vis viva of each line of particles ,M by < , and the result 'is which holds true whether the particles be in the same phase for the whole extent of each transverse section, as, I thinlk is commonly supposed, or whether the phase be supposed to vary from particle to particle in such transverse section according to some continuous law depending on the original vibrations at the surface of the sun or other origin of the beam; it being understood of course that at a given instant the same type or system of phases will recur for sections separated from each other by the interval k. There will be the same recurrence of type for sections made by planes inclined to the beam at any given angle 0, and separated from each other by the perpendicular interval x cos 0; and, farther, the vis viv~a contained between two such planes will be the same as before, since every line of particles will have as much vis viva added at one extremity as is cut off at the other, when the cutting planes are turned fromn thse transverse position through the angle 0. If 0 be the angle of inciMDCCCLFIv. D 18 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. dence, the cutting planes become parallel to the surface of separation of the two media. Hence if we take AP=X=BQ, and take a section PQ of the incident beam parallel to AB (0) the surface of separation, the vis viva of -I PABQ will have for its expression 2r2h~co cos 0 If instead of X we wish to introduce the period of undulation (r), or the number of undulations in a unit of time (y), since a=.r=;, the expres2w2i69 27r o 9/ sion becomes ar cos, or .sav cosO. 13. In the same way*, if h' and hI, be the ampliA, tudes of the reflected and refracted rays, 0, the angle of refraction, a the distance of the ethereal particles from each other in the second medium, and a, the velocity of undulation in that medium, the vires vive of the same wave after the reflexion and refraction has been completed will be severally represented byavw cos 0 and < anvo cos 0,, v being taken the samne as before, inasmuch as phases of any given kind, the nodal points for instance, will be transmitted across the surface of separation just as rapidly as they arrive, so far as regards the number transmitted in a given time, but with different velocities of undulation a and a, in the two media. Hence, on the supposition that no vis viva is lost by the rays, we shall have, omitting common factors, h2a cos0 h'2a cos0 h 2a co's0 claw+ 14. Any particle in-the surface of separation will be at one and the same moment 29rha 2,rat performing its phase to the incident ray with the transverse velocity -2 cos -i-, or 2Trhv cos (2,ryt), and to the reflected and refracted rays with the transverse velocities 2,rh'y cos (2rvt), 2'rh, cos (2vryt); and since this particle cannot move in more than one way at once, it is clear that the two latter must be equivalent to the former, according to the laws of composition of velocities, which is the same as that of forces. Hence, omitting the common factors, the amplitudes h', of the reflected and refracted rays will be statically equivalent to h, the amplitude of the incident ray, regard being had to their several directions. If, therefore, we resolve h'hI in the direction of h and perpendicular to that direction, the sum of the two former components will equal A, and the two latter components will destroy each other. There is no difficulty in pursuing this process, but I prefer the following which * It is scarcely necessary to remark, that, for the reflected and refracted waves, at-x should be written in the place of at+ x in the expressions for the displacement, but the sign of x has no influence on the result of the integration. MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 19 leads to the same results, and gives a geometrical meaning to the language employed. By a well-known theorem in statics if one force be equivalent to two others, and lines be drawn making any given angle with the directions of the three forces, the sides of the triangle intercepted by these lines will respectively represent the forces in magnitude and sign. Let us agree to regard as positive those motions which tend to the right hand of a person supposed to be swimming on the plane of incidence in the direction in which any one of the three rays proceeds. Now the directions of the three rays themselves being those of the three excursions hh'h,, each turnedfrom right to left through a right angle, it follows front the theorem just enunciated, that the sides of a triangle which are respectively parallel to the three rays, will properly represent the transverse velocities in magnitude and sign. Let PO, OP and OP1 be the directions of the incident reflected and refracted rays; take m any point in the latter, and draw mn parallel to OP', meeting PO prlod uced in n. By the rules of composition, On is equivalent to Om and mnn, and since all three are measured in the direction in which the rays proceed, their signs must all be regarded as positive. Consequently h, h' and he have the same sign and are severally proportional to On, Om, mn, and therefore to sin Omn, sin Onm, sin nOm; that is, to sin (0+0,), sin20, and sin (0-0,). We have, therefore, A= sin (8-,) e sin (8+8,) XP k_ sin 20 h sin (8 + 08) 15. These equations, combined with the former, serve to determine h' hi . O2 Substituting the above values in the equation aw of No. (13), put under the form a Cos 8ft2l a, coso h2 H t hS a/l /t a CosO cs we get a3 {sin2 (0+0,)-sin2 (0-0,)}= X 4 sin2 cos2O . Now sin' (0+0) -sin2 (0.-.0,) = {sin(0+0,)+ sin (0-0,)} {sin (0+0,) sin (0-0)} =2 sin 0.cos 0,. cos 0. sin 0,. Therefore, substituting and dividing by the common factors, we get asin 8, a, sin 8 or sin0e~-fusin0. a 13 a This equation, combined with h'-hi-i (?,)) sin (8 +8,1) h sin 28 Do2 20 MtR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. completely determines the reflected and refracted rays. The vis viva of the reflected ray will thus have for its expression 27r2h2 sin2 (0-0,) -j ayw cos 0. sin2 (0? 0 If w be the area of the pupil, we must alter the above in the ratio a w cos 0, the section of the reflected beam, which gives 2r2hea2 sin2 (0-0,) Sii2 (0 + 0,) for the quantity of vis viva which enters the eye and is afterwards condensed on the retina; the corresponding expression forthe incident ray is 3 am. If then we denote the brightness of the incident ray by 1, that of the reflected ray will be represented by sin2 (0 0,) sin2 (0?0,) In like manner the vis viva of the refr-acted ray is 2_2_2 sin2 (20) c airs cos 8 2 (0 +0,) and the portion which would enter the eye, could it be placed so as to receive it, is 2'7r2h2 . sin (20) -v.3 ajr*sin2 (O + 9X giving for its comparative brightness the expression a3 a, sin2 (20) aI3 a 'sin" (O + 0l) sin _0 4 sin2 0. cos20 that is, sinG sin2 (0+0,) 4 cos2 0. sin 0 sin 0, sin2 (0 + 0,) 16. Let us now take the component wave whose vibrations are performed in the secondary plane. Any displacement being represented by the equation z=k sin (at+x+c), proceeding exactly as before, we shall have, on the supposition that no vis viva is lost, k2acos0 k'2a COS 0 k2a cosO The motion of a particle in the surface of separation regarded as performing its phcase to the incident ray is 27rk2 cos (2t t), which, as before, must be statically equivalent to 2xrktp cos (2Trvt) and 2rk,v cos (2rvt); bat the directions of these three motions MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 21 being perpendicular to the plane of incidence and therefore parallel to each other, we have not two equations, as in the last case, but only one, namely, k=k'+ki ; but d, being already determined, we have sufficient data for determining k' and k,. Putting the equation of vis viva under the form a cos {k2-k a1coIs0 { ,k-k' 2 we see that it is satisfied by making either k-k'=O, or. a Cos 5 (k' =fs a, cos 0' (k-ki) 01 ~~~~~~~~~~~(k-, -') '(-k) The first solution gives k'=k and k,=O, so that the ray is totally reflected; the vis viva of the reflected ray being equal to that of the incident ray. The second solution gives in conjunction with asin a, sin 0, sin 0 cos 0. (k+k') sin d, cos d(k-kl), or (sin 20+ sin 20,)k'= (sin 20,sin 2d)k, whence we obtain kf= -k. sin (20)sin (20,) k. tan(-01) tan (0 + 01) k, =k-k'=k. tan (0 + ?0) + tan (OA-01)7 tan (0 + 0,) 2 sin 20 or ki=k k.2i-i sin 20+ sin 20, The vis viva of the reflected ray is therefore 27r2k2 ay cos . tan2 (001) U3 ~~tan2 (O+ 0,)'7 and its relative brightness, compared with that of the incident wave, namely, 2,x2k2 tan2 (0-01) -3-~--avz COS 0, is tan2 (0 + 0,) The vis viva of the refracted wave is 27r2k2 4 sin2 20 anayva cos 0(sin 20 + sin0,)2 ' and its relative brightness is obtained by first multiplying it by v co0, and then dividing it by 27r2k2 a "i'cco0. 0(as in Non 15), 22 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. ace Ia, 4 sjn220 giving for result a (sin 20,)2 aj3 a (sin 20 +sin 20,)2 4 sin2 (20) sina , that iS, ~~~~~~~sin 0 (sin 20 + sin 20,) 16 cos2 Usin0 sin o (sin 20 + sin 20)2 The rule to be followed in selecting the proper solution out of two possible ones, is to take that which causes the ray to deviate as little as possible from its original direction; this is at least the most natural course, and accords with experience in accounting for the phenomenon of polarization, as we shall immediately see; the contrary choice would leave that phenomenon unexplained; -we have therefore no alternative but to adopt the second solution. 17. It may be observed, by the way, that the expressions of the intensities sin2 (0-0,) tan2 (001) sin2 (0 + 0,) tan2 (0 + 0,) which I have found for the reflected rays whose vibrations occur respectively in the primary and secondary planes, exactly coincide with those which FRESNEL has found for the reflected rays whose vibrations are respectively performed in the secondary and primary planes; while the expressions for the intensities of the refracted rays, with the same interchange of planes, only approximately coincide with those deduced by FRESNEL. 18. If O+O,= the expression for the secondary reflected ray vanishes; hence it follows that the incident beam, resulting from the superposition of the two components, after reflexion at the particular angle which satisfies the condition 0+0,=2> will produce a reflected ray of the primary class, that is to say a ray whose vibrations are performed entirely in the plane of incidence. If p be the index of refraction, we have _sin?_3 f sin 0 cl 3a= ga1 , go, denoting the densities of the ether as it exists in the two media, for which the rates of undulation are respectively a, a,. When O,=0-, we have sin O,= cosO, and therefore tan O=M, the law (first discovered by BREWSTER) which determines what is called the polarising angle, agreeabl, to experience. But after incidence at this angle, the beam resulting from the superposition of the two component rays, will, after reflexion, consist entirely of vibrations performed in the plane of incidence, and not, as FRESNEL sLupposed, in a plane at right angles to ths MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 23 19. Let y, y', 7, denote generally the orientations of the major axes of the molecular orbits of the incident, reflected and refracted rays, which, in the case of plane polarized rays, are the same as the angles which the planes of vibration make with the plane of incidence (see No. 11). First, for a plane polarized incident ray, in which case c=O, we have tan ty=X, tany'=7,, tanyi=h Substituting for h' k' h, k, their values, we find tan ty' i cos (0 + ?0) tan y.cos ( + 0?) tan "~h Cos (00) Cos (0 -0,) k 2 sin_( ) _ sin (O + 0?) W sin 20 + sin 201 sin 2 0+sin 20, These formulae show the shiftings of the plane in which the vibrations are performed, and consequently of the plane perpendicular to this, which is usually called the plane of polarization. The first agrees with the formula, p. 361 of AIRY's Tracts, aY,7'bein g of course the complements of the angles there denoted by a), , which formula is there stated to have been verified by numerous observations of BREWSTER and ARAGO. If the incident ray be elliptically polarized, the expressions for tan r, tan y', tan , are of course more complicated. I have stated in No. 11, though for brevity the proof has been omitted, that in the general case, 2hk sX tan 2=h2 y 2Cos A . If we put hk2cos (A)e we shall have 2-tan2y whence tan2 y+ tan y--1O0 and tan= + To determine which sign ought to be used, we may observe that the expression ought k to reduce itself to X when c=O, as in the former case. But making c=O, we have hk/ and the root becomes 2k 4h k2 ,) which reduces itself to or -v, according as we take the upper or lower sign. The 24 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. upper sign must therefore be taken, and we shall have generally without ambiguity, h2 P 2wrc I (k2M-) 2rc tan ty=-2hk-see4 k+ k see2 The other value expresses the orientation of the axis minor, since the product of the two values is -1. 20. It may be worth observing, that if one of these values had been mistaken for the other, it would have made a difference of 900 in the direction of vibration inl the case of a plane polarized ray, for which c=0, and we should thus be brought back to the hypothesis of FRESNEL. I mention this merely to show how easily error may be introduced in proceeding fiom one formula to another, and I would suggest the possibility that the discrepancies of different theorists on this particular point rmay in some instances be removed by a closer attention to the meaning of ambiguous signs. 21. From the last expression for tan y we may derive those for tan i and tan y,; for this purpose we have merely to write h' k', or It k, in the place of h k, and afterwards to substitute for hk' kh, k, their values in terms of h k and d. The results would probably admit of simplification in some degree, but I shall content myself with having pointed out the mode of obtaining them. 22. I now proceed to the case in which a portion of the vis viva of the incident ray is supposed to be communicated to the refracting medium during the same shock which splits up the incident beani into the reflected and refracted ravs. Denoting by p the vis viva of the primary component of the incident ray, and by P'pAp,, the expenditure of the same upon the reflected ray, the refracted ray and the medium respectively, and denoting the angles of incidence and refraction and the different amplitudes as before, we shall have P=PIp+A +PIpI or putting ph-", p =p'+(l +s)p,. But we have already found by integration, 27r2A12 P= <t3 aVocosd I=2x 11 avcocosO 2X~ Pi 3 alyw Cosd & pa COS 0 hL2a cos 0(I Consequently a3 3 a Cco0s We shall further have, as before =_ in (0-) h sin (20) h-sin (0 01) MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 25f We have therefore exactly the same equations to combine as before, with the sole exception tht. i occtupies the place of a,; we have therefore only to make this simple change in the value of sin 0,, and we obtain a3 sin I,( +,$).-t1 asin 0, a3 a 2ir2p iSl (0-1 ) -apc Cos 0 _-h aco si0 2 (a + i,) Pa=a h2 cos 0 (2 si 20), with the same expressions for the comparative brightness as before'F See No. 16. 23. The first of the above equations, compared with the Cartesian law of refraction, regarded as an experimental truth, shows that s is independent of 0; in fact _=_ i. -11, S3a sin 0 and since by the Cartesian law s is independent of 0, it follows that s is also independent of 0. This quantity must therefore be regarded as a certain coefficient of absorption, depending mainly on the constitution of the crystal and the period of the incident ray, possibly also in some degree onl the orientation of the ray, or the position of the plane in which its vibrations Ire performed, with regard to certain fixed planes in the crystal, or refracting medium, whether solid or fluid. The theoretical determination of this coefficient can only result from a more perfect theory of resonance than has hitherto been given, and it is hoped that some of the great modern analysts will turn their attention in this direction. y~~~~~~~~~~~ If we denote the former refractive index -s -, or , by , as -before, and the altered refracted index (l?< 0' or -, by d,, we shall have This very simple formula, now given for the first time, demonstrates the rule-I have before enunciated, namely, The solar rays can exercise no action upon. any medium through which they are transnitted without an accompanying diminution of the refractive index. 24. To estimate the effect of this diminution upon the intensities (i', i,) -of the reflected and refracted rays, unity as before representing the intensity of the incident primary ravy we have it Sr in2 (O-Gs) p sin2 (6 AN) MncccLIv.E 26 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. * w. B ~~P'wos07W cos0 Cos 0 P1 Cos 0, p sin2 (20) a3a1 sing (0 + 0,) a3 a sin2 (20) 1 sin G sin2 (0 + 0,) 1 + s sin ' * 4 cos2 0. sin 0. sin 0, that is, 1?s sin2(O+0,) Let us now proceed to the case of the secondary component wave. Denoting by q q' q, the vires vivcu of the incident, reflected and refracted rays, and by q,, the vis viva-communicated to the medium, we have ' qq'+q,4-q,,; and denoting q, by s', we have q=q'+(+s').q,. We have, further, q= 23k avCosO 2ir2k 12 = 3 avc cosO 2,x2k 2 q, 31 av cos 0,d Consequlently kOa cos 0 kO a cos 0 k a Cos 0,( +s) 3 ?~~~~ with which must be combined, as before, the equation k= -1+ k1. These equations lead to the same results as before, except that a occupies the place of oe,, giving, besides the case of total reflexion, the equation a cos0 (k k') =a'Icos 01(? +s') (kk'). Combining with this the equation sin ,-= (1 +s) .-~asin 0, we get (1 +s) sin 0 cos 0 (k+k')=(l +s').sin 0, cos d,. (k-k'), whence k'{ ( +s) sin 20+(1 +s') sin 2d,} =k. { (I +st) sin 20,(1 +s) .sin 2I}, or k--kit(1? + s) sin 20-(1 + s') sin 20, (o+s)ksin2+(1+s' sin20 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 27 whence k,= 2k. (1 +s) sin 20 (I+s) sin20+(1+st) sin i20 Consequently q 2 ava) cos 0 q 2 k avc cos 0{(l+s)sin20-(1?s').sin20,1j a(1 +s) sin 26+ (1 ? s') sin 20,f 27r2k 2 2 (I1?s). sin 20 2 q7-=----a wcJsd,(I + S) sin 20+ (1I +s) sin 20{ 25. If j' j, denote the comparative brightness of the reflected and refracted rays, that of the incident secondary ray being represented by unity, we shall have q' (1+s)sin20-(1+J5).sin_20,O2 q (Il+s) sin20+ (1+s') sin20,J la c os 0 q, W o 0 ~~Co50 Cos0,i q -01 3al k 2 1 sin 0 k2 3a 2 +ssin k2 or j,:zi+ .4 sin, | (I+s) sin 20 _ _tl I+s sinO t.(I +s) sin 20+(1 +s') sin201J If thenj' be =tn (07j, as the experiments of BREWSTER and ARAGO would lead us tan 2 (0 + 0,) to infer, in all such cases at least we [nust have s'=s. In fact, tan (0+-60) being equi.1 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~tan (0?0,0) geq i sin 20-sin 20, valent to -n 2 we could not have exact agreement between theory and experiment unless (1 +s) sin 20-(1 +s') sin 20, sin 20-sin 20, (I+s)sin20+(I+s')sin2O, sin20+sin20'7 that is, unless (1 +s) sin 20. sin 2d,-(1 +s') sin 20. sin 2, -(1 +s) sin 20 sin 20,+ (1 +s') sin 20 sin 20,, that is, unless 2(1+s)=2(1+s'), or s-s'. Neither without this condition would j' vanish when d+d,= , or 20d = r-2d, for in that case the expression for becomes {2+ , 26. It is extremely natural to suppose that the effect upon the medium nis -mainly, if not entirely, operated by the refracted ray in its passage into the medium, after its separation from the reflected ray; and as s and s' denote the ratios , _', that is to say, the ratio, for each case, in which the vis viva entering, the medium' distributes itself between the particles of the medium and the particles of the ether interfused amlongst them , wre ought to expect thfat in an isotropical medium, like that under E2 28 AIR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS) ET(X consideration, this ratio of distribution should be independent of orientation, and consequently the same for both the primary and secondary refracted waves. 27. I am not disposed however to leap too suddenly to the conclusion that the reflected ray in the action of turning through the angle or-20 has no influencein iml)parting vis viva to the medium*; though it -must be conceded that in all cases where the brightness of the reflected rays accurately follows the laws of FRESNEL as tested by BREWSTER and ARAGO, the reflected ray has no sensible influence on the medium; for were it otherwise, we ought in an accurate theory of resonance to find a difference in the values of s and sI, as we do in the intensities of the primary and secondary waves, both reflected and refracted, and we have already seen that such difference of values will vitiate the law for the secondary reflected ray. It makes all the difference in the world, whether the vis viva be supposed to be communicated to the medium at the very instant of the shock, or immediatelv afterwards; in the first case it will be due partly to the reflected and partly to the refracted rays, in the latter case it will be due almost entirely to the refracted rays. In all cases, however, it is natural to suppose that the refracted rays are chiefly instrumental, and this is indicated by the equality of s and s'in isotropical media, without which equality the laws of FRESNEL, BREwsTER and ARAGO, could not, according to the present theory, be accurately, though they might very well be approximately true, as in fact they would be if s 'i, though different from each other, were very small compared with unity. In clear transparent media, where there is little absorption, s and s' are probably very small, and such being the case, the above law of brightness ought to hold, independent of the equality s=. 28. 1 return now to the expressions for the refractive index Pi ,, 1 ,a1 1-is In the first place, it will be remarked that these differ from the value which is usually adopted, namely, ? a1 I confess I always considered that the usual mode of deducing this value forom the spread of the wvave, which in fact does not spread, was more elegant. thain conclusive. It is connected, if I mistake not, with the idea that the transverse front of a wave of light, as of avWave of 'sound, consists of particles all of which are in the same phase; * Nevertheless it is worth observing, that at the critical angle (compare No. 39), in the case of s=sh it results from the formule that the absorbing power of the medium has no effect in diminishing the vis viva when the ray is turned through an angle 7r-20 in the operation of reflexion, and this is true both for the primary and secondary rays. I am therefore inclined to think, and other considerations confirm me in that opinion, thait the aborbing medium acts something like a file in thinning off the absorbed portions of the ray, and requires that the ruyr should 0pen etrate into its .ubstanlce before it can exercise 'any absorbing action upon it. MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE 'SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 29 sin 'O a the equation in ,-may, in fact, be derived from that hypothesis, without any consideration of the spread of the wave. To make this appear, suppose PQ, a transverse section / , of the incident beam to be all in the samte phase of xvibraI/ tion, and after a certain time to have undulated into the position P,, having been previously refracted by the surface AB. The time fronu P through A to Pa will be PA AP, _ A a al // that from Q through B to Q, will be BQ BQJ 74 a +a Equating these and transposing, we get PA-BQ BQ--AP, a al that is, drawing QR and P1S parallel to AB, PR Q18 a all -and since RQ=AB-P1S, PR a AS * RQ al P S PR but X, R PRQ . sn 0, QJS Sin SP Q * . and ,S in PQ= Sin If PAQS=90 land only on that supposition. Hence the equation sin 0=sin 01 a1 expresses the condition that PJQ,S is' a right angle, in other Words, that the direction BQ, of the refracted wave is perpendicular to the section of similar phase to PQ. Now though this may be true with regard to sound, we have no reason, beyond precarious analogy, to assume that it is true with regard to light. Indeed I think the hypothesis of a similarity of phase extending over the who'le'of 'a transverse section bf the ray, whether it. be the incident or refacted ray,Ais'quite untenable; for let us consider'how'light is generated. 29. Light appears to be generated by the-action upon the ether of the superficial particles of a vibrating body, whether those vibrationsl have their origin in the process of combustion, as in'the flamne of'a candle, or in some other way, as in the case -of phosphorus, 'the electric light, &c. The vibrations -of these superficial particles must be performed in that superficies, otherwise they could not impart transverse vibr~ations to the ether in contact with them: 'and such being the case,it is highly 30 MAR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF TTHE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. improbable, indeed next to impossible, that one uniform phase should extend over more than a very minute portion of superficies at a given instant, consistently with the conditions of continuity. 30. The fairest way of considering the subject without assuminag the uniformity of phase, is to take a section of the incident ray PQ parallel to the refracting surface, and therefore =w, and upon every palrticle of this section to erect ordinates representing' the phases of the different particles: the rippled surae which passes through the extremities of these ordinates _ _ PA will possess a kind of type, which after the time a will be transferred to the surface AB, through which it will be transmitted, with diminished intensity, into the refracting / medium, and after a time a will be brought into the position PQ, parallel to AB and PQ. Presented under this point of view, the question affords no hold whatever for the determination of 7,, and I think I am entitled to conclude that the fo'rmula sin 0,= sl din a a or 1=-1 rests on no other foundation than an uncertain analogy drawn from the theory of sound, whereas the demonstrations I have given of the formule go sin O M, g ill 0i d _l _osin I ga sin 0 are quite independent of such analogy, and are true whatever may be the type of the rippled surface at the front of the waves. I may mention, by the way, that I think it arises from the existence of such a rippled front of wave, that the fringes of interference, which border the margin of a small aperture, upon which a conical pencil of light is incident, are found to vanish when the aperture exceeds a very stmall limit in fact, when the aperture is enlarged so as to admit a comparatively lar ge chequered surface of the wave's front, the several portions destroy each other's effect by interference, but when the aperture is so small as only to admit a portion which presents a uniformnity of phase, then the fringes present themselves and admit of the usual explanation. The hypothesis of a rippled front is therefore not only the most probable when we consider the origin of the b~eam, but it accounts simulltaneously for the non-spread of the wave and the disappearance of the fringes when the aperture is large. It may perhaps be urged in favour of the hypothesis of unifortnity of phase in the MR. POWER ONTHE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 31 front of the wave, that it is necessary, in order to account for a succession of pulses on the retina, giving for different values of X the impression of different colours analogous to different musical notes in the phenomnenon of sound. To this I reply, that-the phases of maxima vivs viva will succeed with equal rapidity in both cases, which is a complete answer to the objection. In fact, if we adopt the hypothesis of a rippled front, the vis viva due to any transverse section as it enters the pupil, will have for its expression an integral of the form 2w' 2,z2 7r B, cos2 -(at+ c,) +B2 cos2 (at+ c2) + Bcos2 (at + c,) + &c.> which, writing + 2? in the place of cos2 u, and expanding each term, will give an expression of the form. A+B cos ( A t) +C sin (4rat) /4wr 4,rat 4 47rat that is, of the form A+AI cos A cos -X +A, sin X A2 sin or .A+A, cos*(at+A2), or A-A,+2A, sin527 (at+A2), whose' maximum value, (A+A1) (as also its minimum value (A-A,)), recurs after X 2,X intervals al y, &c., as is easily seen; these intervals, in fact, hold for phases of any given denomination, just as in the case of any single elementary portion of the front of the wave. 31. Let us now consider the effect of the divisor 1 +s in the formula 1 1 g'V since p11 vis viva commimicated to the medium pi vis viva of the refracted ray We see, that, according as the absorption is greater or less, the values of s may range between infinity and zero; corresponding to which p, will range between zero and (Ai, the refractive index when there is no absorption. But the equation sin ,=sinx4 sin d, shows that 4, will as soon as 1+ sin = 1, or sin = 1+s -Hence if s be considerable, 4 must be small in order that there may be a refracted 32 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. ray, and if sin a exceed the critical value , there will be no refracted ray, but the incident light will be totally reflected without any diminuition of intensity, but with a change of phase (compare No. 39, and the Note to No. 42 at the end of this paper). Hence we see the possibility of particular rays, on which the medium exerts a powerful absorbing action at small angles of incidence, being totally reflected at larger incidences, whilst the remainder of the incident beam is partly refracted, the refracted and reflected light thus being of completely different colours. Specimens of coloured glass partaking of this property are not uncommon, and I have recently been shown a glass which is deep blue seen by reflected light, and reddish brown by refracted light, an effect which Professor STOKES, who showed me the specimen, assures me is not of the nature offluorescence, the name he has finally chosen for the phenomena discovered by himself. At the other limit, for which s=O, sin g, attains its minimum value sin 0; the rays, of which no portion has been absorbed, therefore emerge on the most refracted side of the spectrum; the same thing appears from the expression p,1 s which shows that the refractive index is then a maximum. 32. Although it is possible in this manner to account for a considerable range of spectrum extending, with rapidly decreasing intensity, from the most refracted end, where the rays have suffered least absorption and where the intensity is the greatest, towards the least refracted end, where the intensity decreases without limit, nevertheless there is nothing in this theory which necessarily connects the degree of refraction with the colour, or more generally speaking, the period of the ray. Experience shows that the most refracted rays have the smallest period; if then we would account for the chromnatic dispersion in this way, we must admit that media are more acted upon by the rays of longer period, than by rays of shorter period, by the red than by the violet; but this is contrary to experience. The effect of absorption upon the index of refraction must therefore be regarded as antagonistic to the chromatic dispersion. 33. M. CAUCHY has, I consider, given a satisfactory theory of chromatic dispersion, which is perfectly consistent with every thing which has been advanced in the present theory. But I claim for the latter that it gives a satisfactory account of the phenotnerna of absorption and the spectral spaces discovered by FRAUNHOFER, and commnonly known by the name of FRAUNHOFER'S lines, especially when taken in connexion with the consideration of lminous rsonace, to which subject, I think, the attention ,of scientific mten is here directed for the first time. In fact, according to the laws of resonance, those rays will act most forcibly on the medium, w hich find amongst the particles of the latter some capable of vibrating in unison, or in harmonic consonance less perfect than unison, with themselves, the unison of course giving rise to by far the most energetic action, but the other consonances producing effects more decided as the coincidences of phase are more frequent;7 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 33 we see therefore in general why particular rays should be selected for absorption, without any insensible gradation, and why some lines of absorption, those corresponding to uni'SOn for example, should be More strongly marked than others; and these preliminaries being conceived, then comes the equation sin +,=(1 s) 9' sin 0, which explains how those rays which undergo absorption are turned out of their places and deflected towards the less refracted end of the spectrum, and in some cases, though with intensities so diminished as to he imperceptible, far beyond the limits of the visible spectrum. In fact as s increases, the above equation shows that 0, increases. The refracted ray is therefore turned more from the normal, or deviates less from its original course than it would do if there were no absorption, in. which case s=). 'he intensities of the reflected and refracted rays, both in the primary and secondary planies, will of course be diminished by the loss of vis viva, as is further apparent fromt the expressions which have been obtained for i', ij' andj, in Nos. 24 and 25, namely, . sin (00) . 4 cos2 0 sin 0 sin 0 sin (? + 0) '1?+s sin (O + 01) t(1 +s) sin 20 -(I ?s) sin 20, 12 (I+s) sin20+( +?s) sin 28, 4 sin 0 (1+ s) sin 20 12 '1?l~s sin.L(I+ s)sin 20+(+s') sin20J where it may be observed that i, and j, diminish rapidly as v increases. Without the turnling action above mentioned, the lines of absorption might exist indeed in a less marked manner, but the turning action fairly dismisses the weakened rays out of their places, and these places, if occupied at all, will be occupied by stray rays of a different colour from their immediate neighbours, presenting a faint tinge of the colour which has been turned from a remote space on the more refracted end of the spectrum. And this, I consider, is the true explanation of the phenomenon discover ed by BREWSTER, and cited by DRAPER, P. 85; that red light exists in the violet spaces of the volar spectrum and blue light in the red: provided the red light in the violet spaces be regarded as the extreme violet, deflected towards the purple part of the spectrum ; for ti e extreme violet rays, to my own eyes at least, scarcely differ in colour from the extreme red. In the celebrated M6moire of M. CAUCHY'S (1836, cited by BEER, Einleitung in die hohere Optik, p. 209, and reproduced in the Exercices d'Analyse M&m. tom. i. p. 288), the velocity of undulation is given by a rapidly converging series of the form a2=Ao+A2. *+A4 '+ &c, in which I have thought it right not to include az2, Ad, &c. under the unknown constants A2, A4, so as to exhibit to the eye the rapidity of convergence. As a first apprOxirflatiOfl, we have xXV A0, MDCCCLIV. F 34 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, EUC. and in order that a may be greater for the smaller wave lengths, as experience shows it is, A2 must be positive. If we wish to introduce in the place of X the note-number v, or the number of vibraa tions performed in 4a unit of ti'me, since v=A, we have 2 A2 A4 and since a2, a' occur in the denominators, it will be sufficient to write for them the first approximate values A,, A', &c., thus we get a2 =AQ+ a22+ A4Y+ &C 0 A0 CAUCHY found by comparing theory with experiment that the two foremost terms of his series were sufficient to account for the chromatic dispersion. We shall have, therefore, a sufficiently accurate value of a by extracting the square root of this series to the exclusion of terms involving 4 v6, &c. This value is I A0 VXN for which we may write a=f+gv2 We shall have a similar expression for the second medium, aI=jf+gIV2. Consequently Pi gf-g(f+./v2) which again may be represented approximately under the form B+Cv2, B and C being two constants which can only be known by experiment; but I shall adhere to the other more significant form. Hence we obtain for the refractive index of rays, which have undergone partial absorption, sin 9 [p-e I q(f+v2) whence sin,= 0 sin d= (1 +s) M '+g,")' sin 0. i g~~~~(f+qv'2) 34. Though the expressions for pfp,q'q, (see No. 22 and 24) remain unchanged in form, their values will of course be affected bv the change of d,, which they involve. It would be needless to write their expressions over again, but it may be convenient for the sake of photometrical comparison to exhibit the ratios of vires vivas iIQ I pi p1 q ql P p q q which are immediately derivable from them. They are as follows:p' sin (O-01) p sin (0 + a) P1 1 si A2.sin 2 p I~s sin2(0+O,) MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 35 q' (f +ls) sin 20 (1 + ) sin 20,1 q (+ . (sin 20(+ s') . sin 204 4.(1+ s).sin 20.sin 201 If for isotropical media we suppose V=8, the two last formulae become q' tang. (0 -0,) q -tan2 (0 + 0,) qu_ 4 sin 20 . sin 20, q 1+ s {Sin 20+ sin 20,}2 35. Lastly, if y, of, r, denote, as before, the orientations of the compound rays, regarded as plane polarized, that is according to the present theory, as performing their vibrations in a plane making the angles y, r', y, with the plane of incidence, we shall have tany-k tan k * , tan y= = an y(1 +s) sin 20-(1+s') sin 20 Sill (0+0,) (1 + s) .sin 20 + (1s) sin 20, SI' (0-0,) tan y,=-/ _i.tan y 2 . (1 + D) sin 20 . sin ( + sin Ot (1(s) sin 20+(1 s ) sin 20, sin20 or tan y,=(L 2(+t :'!. t n) 2,tany. +) sIn 2+( ?s) si 0 j1 O 1 tn, If r=s, we get ta ,sin (O d0, I tan V tan (0 ? 0,) sin (-O0) cos (O-0) 2 sin (0 + 0,) tan y/ *tan y tn7sin 20 + sin 20, anr the same expressions which we obtained on the supposition that there was no absorption, and which have been tested by BREWSTER and ARAGO. 36. A most interesting application of this theory is the explanation it affords of the rotatory phenomena of polarization exhibited by certain liquids, as also by certain solids, some specimens of quartz, for instance, which are distinguished from each other by the known appellations of right-handed and left-handed quartz. Let us suppose that the liquid (a solution of sugar or of honey, for instance, both of which are found to possess this property) is divided by horizontal sections at a small vertical distance BE front each other, X being the depth below the surface of the fluid. Though there is no refraction or deviation as the rays pass from one stratum to another, nothing prevents us from making O,=O in the formulae just found, which gives W=?, PJ=1+ :36 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION oF TrHE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. I _ 4(1 +s) t2 +8+s, if l'(2 +s + sj2 tan con, except when S=s, in which case tan =0. Further, tanty,= 2(1+s+)tan y. We see therefore that there is no reflected ray of the first class, nor atly of the second classif'=s; inthatcasetan y,=tan yandq,=q. Thevisvivacommmunicated to the fluid arises therefore entirely from the primary component wave, which imparts to it the vis viva 1 p; the orientation remainsin this case unchanged; but if s' (differs froni s the case is different; in that case the secondary beamn produces a slight reflected ray whose vis viva = q, and whose orientation is-a, so that its vibrations, like those of its parent ray, lie in the secondary plane. The orientation (71) of the refracted ray is given by the fortntula tan 2(i +S) tan 7, whence tan f; tan -{= 4ssf} . tan y. The plane of vibration is therefore rotated in the positive or negative direction, that is, according to our conventions, froni left to right, or from right to left ac cording as s is greater or less than s', that is, according as the primjarv or secondary refracted ray exerts a greater action on the fluid. The quantity of vis viva expended on the fluid is in this case s 4ts(1+ s) Spj~ql= 1 S+ (2 + s + ')2 which must be employed in working some effect or other upon the fluid. If we suppose that s and s' are constant for every thin stratuan of fluid of the same vertical height Ad, since the effect ought to vanish with Gi, we may suppose S-SI 2 +s+s-?0 and regarding y as a function of i, we have tan ri,tan y= tan ty tan -y. 6t. d tan fy Consequently t =a tan y/ whence log, tan y=aE+ log, tan C, or tan y= tan C.O. In this equation C is the initial value of ty at the surface of the fluid, oiat the surface of a crystal which possesses the property in question. rrthe circular olarization, as MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 37 it is sonmetitnes called, will be right-handed or left-handed according as a' is positive or negative. In the latter case we may put the formula under the shape cot 7= cot C.A8, or tan = tan (--C) , which shows that for a negative value of a of equal magnitude, the left-handed spiral will be exactly similar to the righit-handed spiral. Since the nature of the spiral as regards right and left depends on the sign of s-S'; when this difference is very small, as it must be when there is no sensible reflected ray (this appears by the value of q), we see how a very trifling variation of the constitution of the fluid will change the rotation from right to left or from left to right; and this is agreeable to experience; for though the chemist can detect no difference in sugar formed fromt beetroot and that formed from the cane, yet these are found to possess the property in opposite directions. In the same way the specimens of righthanded and left-handed quartz which possess this property, must owe their difference to the presence of some ingredient, which enters in so minute a proportion as not sensibly to affect either the crystalline form or the chemical composition. I must say that this successful application of the present theory to the explanation of these singular phenormena, which no one, so far as I am aware, has ever attempted to explain before, gives me great confidence in the truth of the general theory; nor less satisfactory is the perfectly simple and easy manner in which the known laws of refraction, polarization and photometry result from the calculus. I think I may also appeal to the symmetry and elegance of the formuke themselves, as justifying the inference that they are not less connected with ruth than with light. 37. Several other modes of testing the truth of the present theory have occurred to me, but I have not the time to work them out in detail. Suffice it to say, that hitherto I have not met with a single case with which it seems to be at variance, and I doubt not, whenever the theory of resonance is brought to perfection, that much which is still obscure will be completely explained. The latter theory is at present in a very imperfect state, though the experimental researches of SAVART and others have revealed its phenomena with great minuteness of detail, and 'with a variety of most curious and interesting results. The mathematical difficulties of the subject are such that they will require the highest analytical powers to contend with them; though I cannot hope personally to assist in overcoming them, I am very sanguine that they will finally yield to the intellectual battery of modern analysis, and I am not a little encouraged in this hope by the appearance of M. LAME'S admirable work,' Le~ons sur la Theorie Math6matique de l'Elasticit6 des Corps Solides,' Svo. Paris, 1852. Having mnentioned the name of M. LAME', I beg to call attention to the circumstance that his results, as regards the direction of vibration in the polarized ray, coincide with what I have obtained in the present theory, being opposed to those of FRESNEL and the more rescent researches of M. CAUCHY. See ccLe~ons,"' &c., p. 1 32. 38 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 38. I return to the subject of reflexion and refraction. In the general theory I have taken the case of a dense refracting medium, as it is usually termed (though I think it will turn out that it should rather be termed a rare refracting medium), in sin 0 which sinAm> I, or p,> 1. But all the steps will hold, mutatis mutandis, when pA,< 1, and it may be convenient to exhibit the formulae adapted to that hypothesis. They are as follows: For the primary wave, v -sin (0,-0) 7 sin (0, + 0) Hit sin 20 /t sin (0?+0) p sin2 (01-0) p sin2 (0,+0) pi 1 sin 20 sin 20 p 1 ? s sine (0, + 0) At (1 ? s) sin 20,(1 + s) sin 20 Fou the secondary wavek (I + s') sin 20, + (I+ s) sin 20 ken 2(1 +s) sin 20 k (1 +st) sin 20i+ (1 +s) sin 20 q j (I+s')sin20,-(I+s)sin20 2 q -(1 ?s') sin 20,+ (1 +s) sin 20f q;1 4 (1 +s) sin 20. sin 20 q((1+') sin 20,+(I +s) sin 20)2 To which must be added sin ,= sind= + sind -(tnI~ +s~) sin 20, (1 + s) sin 20 sin (0, + ~~~tan i tnye. fnd@ tan r(1 + s') sin 20, + (1 -Ls) sin 20 sin (0,-) 2. (l +-s).sin (0+0j) tdu r,tan Y*(I si).sin 2O,? (1 +s) sin 20 I have thought it right to give the. whole series of formulhe for the convenience of persons who may be possessed of the means to test them experimentally, and, I may mention that it is more particularly in the refracted rays that they differ from the formulae of FRESNEL; it is therefore to the latter that I must principally look for the experimental verification of this theory. It may be as well to write down the fortnuia for the secondary wave in case s and s' are equal, or very small when unequal. They are as follows:k tan (0-) ktan(0,+0) , ___2 sin 20 k shin 20;+ sin 20 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 39 ql tan2 (0-N) q tan (0,+0) q,_ 4 sin 201. sin 20 q I + 8 (sin 201 + sin 2O)2 tan r--tan ry (0C+0) tanrs= tan r,_ 2 sin (0,+0) sin 2 / + sin 20 For photometrical experiments, it should be remembered that whilst ie express the relative brightness of the reflected and incident rays, primary and secondary, P Cos O and 1' must be multiplied by cost to obtain the proper photometrical ratios for the comparison of the refracted and incident rays. 39. For the ' critical angle' at which sin 0,= we have sin 0=1k, p=p, q=q, Pl=O q1=0Both rays are therefore reflected without loss of intensity, and this is true notwithstanding any absorptive tendency of the medium, which in fact the rays do not enter. Compare No. 26 and No. 27. 40. The general value of the polarizing angle for which q'=0, will be determined by the equations (L +s) sin 20 en(1+s') sin 20k, or (1+s) sin O cos 0=(1 + s) sin 0, cos 0,, and sinD=pasin ,=4 sinI,, whence cos 0,= 1 pilCos 0=y-lI +ICos 0. If ' ____ we have cos 0,=' P.cos 0 1-sin2 0,pi 2(l sin2 0) or 1-n2sin2 = _p12 /2 sin2 0, whence sin2 0= _ 2 I Cos20=2 , tan2 0= tan 0=, i 2 40 MB. POWER ON 'rHE ABSORPTION OF THE SOILAR, RAYS, rTc. When A, is > 1, as in the case of dense refracting substances, glass, water, &c., tile better form for the polarizing angle is tan 0=1 41. If there be no absorption, a and tan d=p. If the primary and secondary rays are equally absorbed, t'= and tai Od=P,. 42. In the theory of the primary wave, whose vibrations are performed in the plane of incidence, although I have supposed that these vibrations are perpendicular to the directions of the incidents reflected and refracted rays, yet the same demonstration will hold whatever be the inclination of the vibrations to the lays, provided it be tae same for all the three rays. If we denote by s this constant angle of vibrations the only change necessary to be made in the wording of No. 14. is, for s" transverses to read oblique, and instead of the words "each turned from right to left through Ca right angle," to read each turned from right to left through an angle (s). lience, whatever be the value of e, the intensity of the reflected ray will be properly represented by i ( -01), If =0, the vibrations are longitudinal, as in the case of sound. sin" (0+ 0,) If s=0, we have exactly the case which has been treated by Mr. GREEN*; as is manifest from his symbols; though his language is indefinite as regards the direction of vibration. It is therefore extremely interesting to compare Mr. GREEN'S expression loFL the intensity of the reflected ray, or rather the square of his expression (for he seems to u. e the word intensity in a different sense, namely, that of comparative velocitv), with the expression s i)-(, observing beforehand, that, from the way in which he has simplified the calculus, we ought to expect nothing more than an approximate coincicg_ ot 0 2 cot 6, dence. The square of Mr. GRE EN'S expression is cot In applying his for+ ecot 0 mnula to the case of two gases of different densities, whose constitution admits of their remaining in juxtaposition under the same pressure, he in the first place deduces the equation sine 0 gsin2 0, from the known experimental relations between the pressure and the expansion of such gases, combined with other parts of his theory; and this substitution being made, the square of his formula becomes tan2 (0+6,)' which, singularly enough, coincides with* Cambridge Transactions, vol. vi. p. 403. MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. 41 FRESNEI4'S expression for a ray polarized perpendicularly to the plane of incidence, that is, according to FRESNEL'S views, whose vibrations are performed in the plane of incidence, a result which, at first sight, seems to militate against the expression I have obtained for the case under consideration, viz. in" 0) But I beg to observe, that the juxtaposition of two heterogeneous gases of different densities under a constant pressure is not at all analogous to the case of light as conceived in the present communication. For, instead of heterogeneous fluids under a constant pressure, we have to conceive pure ether of one density in contact with pure ether of a different density, and therefore under a different pressure, such difference of density and pressure being due to the attractions or repulsions of the grosser particles of the medium for the particles of the ether. We have therefore no right to make the substitution =sin2 ?, the truth of which rests entirely on a property peculiar to gases. -sin2 0' It is much more natural to suppose that the density of the ether in the interior of crystals does not differ much from that of the surrounding ether, so that the ratio L does not sensibly differ from unity. Replacing this ratio by unity, Mr. GRmEEN's expression becotnes cot 0, 1cot 0 -tan0, tan 0 sin (0-01) +cot 0 tan 0, + tan 0 sin ( + ?0) cot 0 the square of which gives 7 ) for the intensity of the reflected ray, agreeably to the present theory. This curious interchange of the expressions sin (0-0,) and tan2 (0-0) sin2 (0 + 0,) tan'2 (0 + 0,)' according to the different circumstances of the case, is very remarkable, and tends to throw light on the discrepancies of different theorists, as regards the direction of vibration. It is further remarkable that a similar interchange, according as we substitute sin20, or 1 for the ratio A, occurs in the expression for the change of phase, as investigated by Mr. GREEN, in the case of total reflexion at an angle greater than the critical angle. In fact, if 2e denote the acceleration of phase in the reflected ray, the following general formula will be found to result from Mr. GREEN'S equations, tan e=V tan' secv 0, which transforms itself into tan e= V/ i n2 MDCCLIV. G 42 MR. POWER ON THE ABSORPTION OF THE SOLAR RAYS, ETC. or into tan e=c C /si according as h2 or I is substituted in the place of g'. The former is the expression which Mr. GREEN has obtained for contiguous gases, and is identical with that obtained by FRESNEL by an interpretation of the formula tan (O,-O0) tan (O1+O) the latter is identical with that obtained by FRESNEL fromn the formula sin (0 +0) According to the views of the present author, the latter will belong to a totally reflected ray whose vibrations are performed in the plane of incidence, and the former to a similar ray whose vibrations are at right angles to that plane.--This and the preceding paragraph were added April 2, 1854. 