(900) An Observation Of Saturne, made at Paris, the 17th of August, 1668. at hor.111/2, at night, by M.Hugens, and M. Picarts as 'tis describ'd in the Journal des Scavans of Febr.II.1669. THe Observers, imploying a Telescope of 21 Foot, saw the Planet Saturn, as 'tis represented by Fig. II. the Globe in the midle man festly appearing both above and below beyond the Ovale of his Anses; which was hardly discernable the last year. They measur'd divers ways the Inclination of the Great Diameter of the Ovale to the Equator,which (Inclination) was found of about Nine degrees,although at that time it should not be but of Four degrees, according to what M. Hugens hath affirm'd in his Systeme of Saturn,viz. that the Plan of the Ring, which environs the Globe of this Planet, is inclin'd to the Plan of the Ecliptique but 23 deg. 30. m. But this last Observation and other like ones of this and the precedent Year being more exact, and made at a time more proper for measuring that obliquity, than were those, which had formerly served for a foundation to determine it; M. Hugens finds that, in stead of 23. deg. 30. m. the Angle of the Plans of the Ring and of the Ecliptique must be of 31.deg. or thereabout; and that being so, that not onely the Shape, which Saturn hath at present, but also all those,that have been noted since the true ones were observed, do perfectly agree with the Hypothesis of the Ring; and particularly that of 1664. in the beginning of July *, which was made, and made publick by Signior Campani, wherein the Great Diameter is double to the Lesser. * See Fig.3. as 'tis to be found in the French Letters, written by M. Auzout to M. L'Abbe Charles, and printed at Paris, A.1665. upon the occasion of the Ragguaglio di due Nuove Osservationi da Giuseppe Campani. As to the round Phasis of Saturn, that Change of the Inclination,which was just now spoken of, cannot alter the time of it but very little or nothing; so that M. Hugens still exspects this Apparance in 1671. when in the Summer of that Year Saturn will begin to loose his Anses, there being then to remain onely the Globe in the Midle; and will not recover them but about a year (901) year after, according to what he hath said in his Book of the Systeme of Saturn. O O Fig. IV. Q 5 4 b Q a 2 3 6 7 7 A. B 1 1 