Tab: 3. Fig: 1: 2 IV. An Account of the Cure of two Sinuous Ulcers possessing the space of the whole Arm, with an Extraordinary Supply of a Callus which fully answers the Purposes of the Os Humeri lost in time of Cure. From Mr. John Fawler, Surgeon to the Sick and Wounded at Deal, to Dr. William Cockburn, F. R. S. S I R, YOU perswade me that it will be very acceptable to the Royal Society, to give them some Account of that troublesome Cure I spoke of to you, whereby these diligent Naturalists may be likewise furnish'd with an uncommon instance of the Power, as well as the Bounty of Nature, in providing against the loss of the Bone of the Arm with a Wonderful Callus. The Case was of John Marsh, of the Parish of Denton in the County of Kent; he was about 16 Years Old. This young Man was troubled with a Tumour on his Arm in (2467) in the end of a continual Fever, which seems to be a Critical Discharge of the Humour of the Fever on his Arm: he was manag'd by a Surgeon of that Parish two Years together for this Tumour; at length, there being no appearance of a Cure, he was sent to me. At first dressing I found two Sinuous Ulcers in his Right Arm, one upwards about the Deltoid Muscle, and the other on the under part of his Arm, within an Inch and a half of the Juncture of the Cubitus; the Sinus above passing upwards within an Inch and a half of the Juncture, and downwards to the Cubitus. The Sinus of the lower part pass'd downwards to the Cubitus, and upwards about an Inch and a half. When both these Sinus were laid open, the Bone soon show'd it self carious and loose, so that I easily took it out, and was about five Inches long. [See Tab. 3. Fig. 1.] Three Weeks after there came off another Spelt of Bone of the inner side, about two Inches long, having the Channel of the Marrow. [Fig. 2.] These Ulcers, with much Care and Diligence, as every one skilful in such Cases must be sensible, were Cur'd very well in nine Months; and the place of the Bone is so well supplied with a strong Callus, that he is not only very strong, but can lift 50 l. weight with that Arm. 15 F 2 V. Part 