[474] XIII. A Letter from John Starr M. D. to John Huxham M. D. F. R. S. containing an Account of an Horse bit by a mad Dog. Dear Sir, Liskard, Jan. 10. 1749. BENEATH you have the Account you requested: If it contains any thing worthy your Perusal, I shall be pleased. Nothing deserving Notice is, I think, omitted: Every Circumstance is truly, and it may be too particularly related. Read June 21, 1750. Dec. 1, 1745. a Neighbour's large Mastiff Dog, mad, broke out in the Night from the Place where he was too carelesly confin'd; and, by a rotten back Window, enter'd my Stable, fell upon my Horse, and bit him in many Places, as Shoulder, Breast, and right Nostril; which was indeed much torn. He bled largely. The Town being early in the Morning alarmed by this mad Dog, and my Horse being found loose, his Collar broke to Pieces, wounded in many Places, and much Blood scatter'd up and down the Stable, it was too justly concluded the Dog had fallen upon him. According to Desault's Method, and what Dr. James says, in a Letter I had from him on another Occasion, will effectually prevent the ill Consequences of this Bite; I immediately order'd the Wounds to be well rubb'd with a mercurial Ointment, ex Axung. porc. ~. Argent. viv. ~. About ~. were at times expended~ Next [475] Next Morning he was bled two Pounds or more; after which I gave him in Milk * Lichen ciner. terrest. 3vj. Pip. nig. 3iiij. five Mornings successively; which I repeated at the End of a Fortnight for four Mornings more. As the Pulv. Antilyssus was not in our Shops, and no one in Town knew the Lichen but myself, I went with my Servant Sunday Forenoon, the Day of my Horse's Misfortune, to seek it. What I found was, I fear, too young; for it seemed just coming from the Earth, and the Leaves were scarce one third as big as at its full Growth. I got what I hop'd might be sufficient; and, after cleansing, perhaps too hastily dry'd it at the Fire, that it might be ready for Use the next Day. The Wounds heal'd up soon, without any other Application; and the Horse fed uncommonly hearty after a Day or two (during which the Fright had made him uneasy and fretful) and seemed to improve considerably in every respect. I omitted riding him for 20 Days; but about the 20th rid him two short Journeys only. He travell'd chearful and brisk, and I took care not to heat him (for tho' the Horse was old, I would not willingly have parted with him for 20 Pieces). I saw him every Day, but could in no respect discover any thing amiss. Dec. 25, two Days before the full Moon, my Servant told me, that in the Morning he trembled much on entering the Horse-Pool, and refused to drink at the watering Trough; but in the Evening drank heartily at another Well. This alarmed me; but considering that Horses frequently refuse to drink there, and that he drank in the Evening, I was someP p p what * See thes eTrans. No. 237, p. 49, anno 1697. [476] what easy; but order'd my Servant, if he refused next Morning drinking at one, to try him at the other; and if he refused at both, to let me immediately know it. Dec. 26. As soon as he enter'd the Horse-Pool, he trembled all over in a most surprising manner, and would by no means attempt to drink. The Servant immediately return'd with him. I order'd him to be led into a small Pool of Rain-Water which stood in my Court. The Trembling return'd; every Muscle was strangely agitated; he look'd as if he were melancholy on the Water, smelt to it, but would not touch it. Being put into the Stable, a Bucket of pure clean Water was brought to him; he eagerly thrust his Mouth into the Water, but, endeavouring to suck it, a Convulsion seiz'd him. I was now satisfied he had a true Aquae Pavor. He was bled to about 3 Pints, Musk 3~. Cinnab. Ant. 3j. made into a Ball with Cons. Anthos was given him. In bleeding he once snapt at the Smith, tho' well known to him, having shoed him for Years: And indeed this was the only Time he attempted to bite any one. In about two Hours after the Musk was given to him, I offer'd him with my own Hands about two Gallons of white Water warm: he drank it off without the least Difficulty or Hesitation. Had I dissolved in it two Ounces of Nitre, I had certainly done well. Had the Quantity of Musk at first given been greater (for Dr. James writes, me he gives the above Quantity of the best Musk in a Watchfulness remaining after a febrile Delirium is remov'd), or had I now again repeated the same Ball, I am apt to think [477] think the Horse might have been saved (this being the Tonquin Method, even after the Appearance of the Hydrophobia); for he was as yet quiet and tractable. I went to him as usual, handled him, and he behav'd as in his former Health; but, being look'd on as a mad Horse, I saw every one was afraid to meddle farther with him. He eat both Hay and Oats heartily. In the Evening, about 9 o' Clock, more of the white Water was offer'd him, but he drank none. Dec. 27. This Night the Madness increased much for he had bit the Manger as far as he could reach, and made it quite ragged. In the Morning he frequently bit his Breast where the Wound had been; and when he happen'd to take hold, violently drew up the Skin with his Teeth. Both these things he did during the Day at times, but most in the Morning. I put a Tub of Water before him; he greedily ran his Nose into it; but, endeavouring to drink, a dreadful Convulsion seized him, which sometimes drew his Buttock to the Ground; at others his Back was so hollowed with it, that his Belly was brought almost down on the Litter. During the Convulsion he would groan in an affecting manner; and frequently cry out. As soon as the Convulsion was over, he repeated his Endeavours to drink with the same cruel Event; and would, I believe, had the Water stood before him, have repeated it the whole Day. He still eat his Allowance of Hay and Oats; but when not eating, he was continually thrusting out his Tongue, and working with his Lips, as if to moisten and cool them. His Tongue was exceeding dry, and of a blackish-brown Colour on the P p p 2 Surface. [478] Surface. As he eat Oats, I have sometimes lamented I had not mixed Turpeth. mineral. with them. I tried him with Water about 9 at Night; every thing was as in the Morning; only the Convulsion was, if possible, stronger, and more excruciating; for he groaned deeper, louder, and in a more affecting Tone. His Breath was exceeding hot; it came from his Nostrils like Smoke from a Chimney-Top; he expanded his Nostrils as if he had been violently running; and the Steam was visible for more than a Yard Distance. Dec. 28. This Night he broke his Collar in Pieces, broke down the Partition by which he was separated from the Place of my other Horse, traversed the Stable, attempted to get out; in order to which he beat down the under Half of the Stable-Door; however, in the Morning, being spoken to by my Servant, he neigh'd, immediately went to his Place, where he stood biting his Breast and Manger almost continually. His Look was now become wild and furious, and about 10 o' Clock I order'd him to be shot. I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate humble Servant, J. Starr. P. S. I observed he was always worse, every Symptom being aggravated at the time the Moon came to the Meridian; which again, as the Day advanced, in some degree abated. XIV. 