J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. An Account of some Books. I. Joh. Sig. Elsholtii, Elector. Brandenburg Medici, C L Y S M A T I C A N O V A, sive Ratio in venam sectam Medicamenta immittendi. C O L O N I AE B R A N D E B U R G I C AE. 1667. in 8o. THe Title-page of this Book, but very lately come into England, shews this to be the second Edition: and the Author in the Conclusion of it tells the Reader, that the first Edition thereof was publick A. 1665. at which time he affirms there had been nothing printed (for ought he knew) either by English, French, or Italians, of this argument. To which we shall here say nothing, but refer the Candid Reader to what hath been said already (by way of vindicating the Invention, both of Infusing Medical Liquors, and of Transfusing Blood, from usurpation) (1201) pation) in several of these Tracts, as Numb. 7. p. 128. Numb. 20. 353 Numb. 22. p. 385. Numb. 35. p. 677, 678, 679, 680, 681. Mean time, this Author, having collected in this little Tract divers of the Experiments, made in England, France, and Italy, concerning these Inventions (of which we might have a far greater stock, and that a very considerable one, as to that of Infusion, if our Learned and Candid Doctor Timothy Clark, one of his Majesties Physicians in Ordinary, and a Fellow of the R. Society, could but find the leasure of digesting for the Press what he hath done on this subject many years ago) discourseth of the particular Diseases, wherein this Infusing Chirurgery hath been used with success, and suggests those, to which it might be further extended with benefit. II. Nicolai Hobokeni A N A T O M I A S E C U N D I N AE H U M AN AE, Ultrajecti A. 1669. in 8o. THis Author, intending to inquire more narrowly into all the particulars concerning Humane Generation, premiseth these Observations, touching the Humane Secundine, lately made by himself, and accompanied with 15 accurate Schemes, drawn, (as he faith) by his own hand, and representing; First, in a Female Faetus, the placenta uteri, together with the Membranes and String, on both sides, where the same respects the uterus as well as the faetus; and more particularly the Membrane Amnios, sever'd from the placenta, and the Vessels running through the other Membrane, Chorion; then, that portion of the string, wherein the laxeness, inequalities and contorsions of the Membrane, together with all the contain'd vessels in their proper scituation, are observ'd; next, the Macula, appearing somewhat prominent in one of the Arteries, by which may easily be found the passage of the Bloud to the Placenta, and its difficult regress towards the Navil of the Faetus; more-over, the interiour substance of the placenta, and all the ramifications of the Veins and Arteries. Secondly, in a Male-faetus, a review of all the former particulars, together with several differences from that of the Female. To these Observations is subjoyn'd a Collection of Letters, written by this Author to divers Learned men, touching Generation, together with their Answers: In which Collection 'tis intimated, that the Curious may now expect from Dr. Dimerbroeck, the famous Physitian of Utrecht, his Anatomy, which by reason of his great practise, and a multitude of other avocations hath been hitherto retarded. Joh. (1200) I I I. Joh. Ludov. Gansii M. D. C O R A L L I O R U M H I S T OR I A. Francofurti A. 1669. in 12o. IN this History the Author affirms to have digested both what ha.h been deliver d of Corals, and what himself hath observ'd and try d of that curious product of Nature, taken notice of by the Poet, 4. Metam. Sic & Coralium, quo primum contigit auras Tempore, durescit, mollis fuit herba sub undis. Which affirmation this Author looks upon as poetical indeed and fictitious, asserting, that Coral is originally a Mineral, and a kind of precious Stone, Corals being no berries petrified, but pieces filed off and turnd, from the trunck, round and polisht. His opinion therefore is, that Coral is form'd out of a glutinous Juyce, which being turn d into Stone by a falt, abounding in it, riseth up in the form of a Shrub, the salt being the cause, that maketh Plants spread into branches. The places of the production of Coral he names to be, the Red Sea (where they are darkish,) the Persian Gulf, the Sicilian and Neapolitan shore. Some of them are Red, others White, others Blackish. To this Accompt he annexes various Preparations made of them; as also divers Solutions, of which he delivers one as an excellent dissolvent both of Corals and Pearls, made of very well rectifi'd spirit of Salt, digested, and freed of its Corrosiveness, and then mixt with good spirit of Wine distill'd and brought over the Alembic. May-Dew is also much commended by him for a fit Menstruum, if the spirits distill'd from it be joyn'd with its own Salt. He treats also of the Magisteries, Extract, Oyl, Tincture, Quintessence, Flowers; as also of the Vertues of Corals, and of the way of making factitious ones. 