C 1693 XVI. Observations on Vision. By TIlomas Young. Commant@ cated by Richard Brocklesby M. DF Fo R. s Read May so, w*79Q3. It is wil known that the eye, when not acted upon by any exertion of the mind, conveys a distinct impression of those objects only which are situated at a certain distance from itselfS that this distance is diffierentin different persons, and that the eye can, by the volition of the mind, be accommodated to view other objects at a much less distaxl-ce: but how this accommodation is tflfected, has long been a matter of dispute, and has not yet been satisfactorily explaineds t I-t is equally true, though not commonly observed, that no eser tion of the mind can accomnlodate the eye to view objects at a distance greater than that of indolent vision, as may easily be experienced by any person to whom this distarlce of indolent vision is less than infinite. . The principal parts of the eye, and of its appertenances7 have been described by various authors. WINSLOW is generally very accurate; but ALBINUS, in MUSSCHENBROEKS Inlrodwactio, has represented several particulars more correctly. I shall suppose their account complete, except where I mention or delineai;e the contrary. Th first theory that I find of the accommodation of the Mr. YOUNGES Observations on Vision.t-7o:eye is KEPLER'S. He supposes the ciliary processes to contract the diameter of the eye, and lengthen its axis, by a nauscular power. But the ciliary processes neither appear to contain any muscular fibres, nor have they any attachment by which theytcan be capable of performing this action. DESCARTES imagined tlle same contraction and elongation to be efEected by a muscularity of the crystalline, of which he supposed the ciliary processes to be the tendons. He did not attempt to demonstrate this muscularity, nor did he erlough consider the connection with the ciliary processes He says that the lens in the mean tirrle becomes rnore convex, but attributes very little to this circumstance. DE LA HIRE maintains that the eye undergoes no change, except the contraction and dilatation of the pupil. He does not attempt to confirm this opinion bv mathematical demonstrationf he solely rests it on an experi1nent which has been shewn l)y Dr. SMITH to be fallacious. HALLER too has adopted this opinion, however inconsistent it seems with the known princ:iples of optics, and with the slightest regard to hollrly experience. Dr. PEMBERION SUPPOSeS the crystalline to contain muscular flbres, by which one of its surfaces is flattened whiLle the other is nade more convex. But, besides that he has demonstrated 110 such fibres,rDr. JU0RIN has proved that-a change like this is inadequate to the effect. Dr. PORTERSIELD conceives that the ciliary processes draw forward the crystalline, arld make the cornea more convex The ciIiaryprocesses are, from their structure, attachment, and directions utterly incapable of this actionX andn -by Dr. Mr. YOUNG}S Observations on Dision.171JURIN'S calculations, there is not room -for a sufficient motion of this kind, without a very visible illcrease in the length of the eyes axis: sUch all increase we cannot observe Dr. JURIN'3 hypothesis is, that the uvea, at its attachlnent to the cornea is rnuscular, and that the contraction of this ring malces the cornea more convex. He says, that the fibres of this muscle may as -well escape our observati-on7 as those of the tnuscle of the interior rilag. But if suclla muscle existedv it tnust, to overcome the resistance of the coats, be far stronger than that which is ollly destined to the uvea itself; and the uveaS at this partn exhibits nothing but radiated fibresn losing themselves, before the circle of atlherence to thetsclerotica,in a brownish granulated substance, not unlike in appearance to capsular ligament7 common to the uvea and ctliary processes, but which may be traced separately from them both. Now at the interior ring of the uvea, the appearance is not absolutely irlconsistent with an annular muscle. His theory of accomlno dation to distant oajects is ingeniousn but no such accommodation takes place. MUSSCHENBROEE conjectures that the relaxation of his ciliary zonef wlaich appears to be nothing but the capsule of the vitreous humour where it rectives the impression of the ciliary processes permits the coats of the eye to push forwards the crystalline and cornea Such a voluntary relaxation is wholly without example in the animal economy and were it to take placeS the coats of tlle eye would llot act as he imagines, llor could they so act urlobserved. The c-ontractiorl of the ciliary zone is equally inadequate and unrlecessary. SOrize haVe SUPpOSed the PreSSUre Of the eXterna1 mUSC1eS ESPeCia11Y the tWO;Ob1iQUe mUSC1eS tO 10ngate the aXiS Of thE Mr. YoUNG's Observations on Vision.972eye. But their action woultl not be sufflciently reglllar, rlor sufficiently strong S for a much greater pressure being made on the eye, than they can be supposed capable of eSectingX no sensible difference is produced in the distinctness of visiorl. Others say that the muscles slaorten the axis: these have still;less reason on their side. Those whv maintain that the ciliary processes flatterl the crystalline, are ignorant of their -structure, and of the effect requirecl: these processes are yet more incapable of drasving backthecrystallinve, and such an action is equally inconsis tent with observation. Probably other stlppositions may have been formed, liable to as strong objections as those opinions which I have erlu. . . merated. Froln these considerations, and from the observation of Dr. PORTERFIELD, that those who have been couched have no longer the power of accommodating tlle eye to different distames I had-conclu-ded that the rays of light, emitted by objects at a small distance, could ollly be brought-to foci on the retina by a nearer approach of the crystalline to a spherical form; andl I could imagine no otller power capable of pro duting this change than a muscularity of a part or the wllolef of its capsule ;: But in cl0sely examining, wsth the naked eye in a strong lDightS the crystalline from an ox, turned out of its capsule, I ctiscovered a structure which appears toJ remove all the difficultie-s vvZith which this brianch of opti-cs has long been obscured. On ltiewing i-t with a magnifier, this structure be came more evident. The crystalline lens of the ox is an orbicuIarn coxivesS Mr. YOUNGvS Observations on Vision.1731;ransparent body, composed of a considerable number of similar coats, of which the exterior closely adhere to the interior. Each of these coats consists of six lnusclesy intermixed with a gelatinous substance, and attached to six lnembranolls t;endons. Three of the tendons are anterior, three posterior; tlleir length is about two thirds of the semi-diameter of the coat; their arrangement is that of three equal and equi distarlt rays, lneeting in the axis of the crystalline l one-of the anterior is directed towards the outer angle of the eye, and one of the posterior towards the inner angle, so that the posterior are placed capposite to the lmiddle of the interstices of the anterior; and planes passing through each of the sis, and through the axisn would mark on either surface six regular equidistant rays. The muscular fibres arise from both sides of each tendon; they diverge till they reach the greatest circumference of the coat, ancl, having passed it, they again converge, till they are attached respectively to the sides of the llearest telldons of the opposite surface. The anterior or posterior portion of the six vieweEl together, exhibits the appearance of three penniforrni-radiated muscles. The anterior tendons of all the coats are situated irl the same planes, and the posterior ones in the continuations of these planes lbeyond the axis. Such an arrangement of fibres can be accounted for on no other supposition than that of musculariLy. This mass is iticlosed in a strolag membranous capsule, to which it is loosely connected by mitiute vessels and nerxres S and the connection is more observable near its $reatest circumference. Between the mass and its capsille is found a considerable quantity of arl aqueous fluid7 the liquid of the crystalline. MDCCXCII.t. 2 A Mr. NYOUNG'S Observations on Vision.174I conceive, therefore, that when the will is exerted to rriew an object at a small distance, the influence of the mind is conrreyed through th-e lenticular ganglion, formed from branches of the third and fifth pairs of nerares, by the filanents perforating the sclerotica, to the orbiculus ciliaris, which may be considered as zan annular plexus of nerves and vessels S and thence by the ciliary processes to the muscle of the crystalline, wllich, by the contraction of its fibres, becomes more conves, and collects tlle diverging rays to a focus on the retina. The disposition of fibres in each coat is ad mirably adapted to produce this change for, since the Ieast surface that can contain a given bulk is that of a spherev (8IMPSON S Flusions, p 486) the contraction of any surface must bring its colltents nearer to a spllerisal forrnO The liquid of the crystalline seems to serve as a synovia in faci-litating the motionn and to admit a sufficient change of the muscular part, with a smaller luotion of the capsule. It remains to be inquiredf whether these fibres can pro duce an alteration in the form of the lens sufficiexatly great to accollnt for the knowrl effects. In the ox's eye, the diameter Qf the crystalline is oo thousatlclths of an inch, the axis of its anterior segment 22,S, O:f its posterior Sso. Il1 the atmosphere it collects: parallel rays at the distance of e:3tS thousandths. From these data we finda by mealls of SMITH)S OPtiCS, Art. 366 and a qUadratieg that its ratio of refraction is as 100QO to 6t5744. HAUKSBEE lnakes it OnIY aS IOQOO to 68S2,7, but nre canrlot depend on lliS ex perinnent since he says that the image of the candle which he rie-wed was enlarged and distorted d a circumstance that he does not explain7 but which was evidently occasioned by the Mr. YOUNG'S ()bservations on Vision.greater density of the central parts. Supposing, with HAUKSBEE and others, the refraction of tlle aqueous and vitreous humours equal to that of water, viz. as ooooo to 746Sg the ratio of refraction of the crystalline in the-eye will be as loooo to 88069 and it would collect parallel rays at the distance of ts26 thousandths of an inclz: but the distatlce of the retina from the crystalline is ,tSo thousandths, and that of the all terior surface of the cornea 25O, hence (by SMITH, Art. 367n3 t;lle focal distance of the cornea and aquevus humour alone must be 2329. NOW, supposing the crystalline to assume a spllerical form, its diameter will be 642 thousandths, and its. focal distance in the eye 92de Then, disregarding the thickness of the cornea, we find(by SMlTlI Art. 370n) that such an eye will collect those rays on the retina which diverge from a point at the distance of 12 inches arld 8 tellths. This is a greater change than is necessary for an osws eye, for if it be supposed capable of distinct vision at a distance somewhat less than 12 inches, yet it probably is far short of being able to collect parallel rays. The human crystalline is susceptible of a much greater change of fo-rm. Tlle ciliary zone may admit of as tnuch extension as this diminution of the diameter of the crystalline will require; and its elasticity will assist the cellular texture of the vitreous hu mour, and perhaps the gelatinous part of the crystalline, in restoring the indolent form. It may be questioned whether the retina takes any part in supplying the lens svith nerves X but, from the analogy of the olfactory and auditory nerves, it seems more reasonable to suppose that the optic nerve serves no other purpose thal:l tllat of conveying sensation to the brain. 2 AG Mr. YOUNG'S Observations on Eision176Although a strong light and close examination are re quired, in order to see the fibres of the crystalline in its intire statea yet their direction may be demonstrated, and their at tachment shewn, without much difficulty. ln a dead etre the tendons are diseernible through the capsule, and svmetirnes the anterior ones even through the cornea and aqueous hu mour. When the crystallie falIsg it very frequexltly sepa rates as far as the centre into three portioras, each having a tendon in its middle. If it be carefully stripped of its capsule, and the smart blast of a fine blow-pipe be applied close to its surfacein diffierent parts it will be found to crack ex actly in the direction of the fibres above describedn and all these cracks will be stopped as soon as they reach either of the tendons. The application of a little ink to the crystalline is of gteat use in shewing the course of the fibres When first I observed tlle structure of the crystalline, I was not aware that its muscularity had ever been suspected We haveS however, seen that DESCARTES supposed it to be of this nature , but he seems to thinlk tllat the accornmodatioll of the eye to a small distance is principallr performed by the elongation of the eye9s axis. Indeed as a bell shakes a steeple, so must the coats of the eye be affiected by any change ixl the crystallineX but tlle effiect of this will be very irlcon siclerable; yeta as far as it does take placen it svill co-operate svith the otTzer cllaangev But the laborious ancl accurate LEEEWENHOEK by the llelp of his povverful microscopes, laas described the course of the fbres of the crystalline, in a variety of animals; and he has even gorae so far as to call it a tnuscle X ; but no oRze has pur * Now if thecristal;ne hulnour (which I havo sornetimes callecI the crist. muscIe) Mr. YoUNGwS ObservatZvAs on nsion.177sued the hintg and probably for this reason, that from exanzin ing only dried preparationsv he hasimagined that each coat consists of circumvolutions of a single fihre, and has intirely ove3SI00ked the attachtnent of the fibres to tendons v and if the fibres were corltinued into each other in the manner that he describes, the strict analogy to muscle would be lost, and their contraction could not have that effect on the figure of the lerls, which is produced by help of tlle tendons. Yet not srithstanding neither he3 nor any other physiologist, has attempted to explain the accommodation of the eye to diffierent distances by means of these fibres, still much anatomical luerit must be alloved to the faithful description, and elegant delineationa of the crystallines of various animals, which he has given in tl-e Philosophical Transactions, Vol. XIV. p. *780, and Vol. SSIV. p. z723. It appearsn from his descriptions and figures, that the crystalline of hogs? dogs, and cats, resembles what I hase observed in oxen, sheepn and horses, that in hares and rabbits, the tendons on each side are only two, meeting in a fstraight line in the axis; and that in whales they are five radiated in the same manner as n?here there are three. It is evident that this variety will tnake no material diffierence in the action of the muscle. I have not yet had an opportunity of examinirlg the human crystallirle, but frozn its readily dividing illtO three partsn we may infer that it is similar to tlaat of the ox. rthe crystallirle in :fishes being spherical, such a chalzge as I attribute to the lens in quadrupeds cannot take place in that class of allinals. It has lbeen observed that tXe central part of the crystalline in OU14 eyes, &s. Phil. Trans. Ntol. XXIV p. s729>-CrystalSinu1n musculum} Mi-ds c bxmorpm crystcgllialum dictum, Wc. Iz E E U W E N H . p, omz. I p. X 02 . 178llir. YOUNG'S Observations ox Vision.becomes rigid by ageS -and this is sufficient to account forN presbyopia, without any diminution of the humours, although I do not derly the existence of this diminution, as a concomitant circumst-arlce. I shall llere beg leave to attempt the sollltion of some optical queriess which have rlot been mllch considered by authors. 1. MUSSCHENBROES asksn What is the cause of the lateral radiations which seem to adhere to a candle viewed with winking eyes ? I answer, the most conspicllous radiatiorls are those which, diverging from below, form, each with a vertical line7 an angle of about seven degrees; this angle is equal tC? that which the edges of the eyelids when closed tnake with a horizontal line; and the radiations are evidently caused by the reflection of light from those flattened edges. The lat-eral radiatiorls are produced by the light reflected from the edges of the lateral ;parts of the pupillary margin of the 1lvea while its $uperior and inferior portions are covered by the eyelids. The whole uvea being hidden before the total close of the eyelidsn these horizontal radiations vanish before the perpen dlcular ones. 2. Some have inquiredv Whence arises that luminous crossa rhich seens to proceed from the image of a candle in a looliing-glass ? rrhis is-produced by tlle direction of the friction by which the glass is polished: the scratches placed in a horizontal directionS exhibiting the perpendicular part of the cross, and the vertical scratches the horizorltal part, in a nanller that may easily be conceivedk g. Why do sparks appear to be emitted; when the eye is rubbed or colnpressed in the dark ? lGllis is MUSSCHENSSOER)$ Mr. YOUNG9S Obserzpations on Nszon.t9burthXquerys When a broadish pressllre, as that of the finger, ls made on tlle opaque part of the eye in the dark, an orbicular spectrum appears on the part opposite to that which Is pressed: the light of the disc is faintn that of the circumirence muchstrongerg but yhen a narrow surfice is apgied, as that of a pinvs headS or of the nail, the image is narrow and bright. This is evidetltly gcasioned by the irritation of the retina at the -part touched, referred by the mind to the place frotrl vrhence light coming through the pupil would fall on this spot; the irritation is greatest where the flexure is greatest,viz. at the circumfErence, and sometimes at tlle centren of the depressed partX But in the presence of light) whether the eye be open or closedS the circumference only will be luminous, and tllei disc dark; and if the eye be vlewiag any ob ject at the part where the ilnage appearsa that object will be totally lnvisible. Hence it followsn tllat the tension a11d compression of the retina destroys all tlle irritation, except that which is produced ly its flexure; and this is so slight Oil the diS& that tlle apparent light there is fainter than thatof the ray-s arrivirlg at all other parts through the eyelids. This experiment demonstrates a truth, which may be inferred from uany other argurnents, and is indeed almost an axiom9 viz that the sllpposed rectificat;ion of the inverted image on tlle retina does not depend on the direction of tlle illcident rays! NEWTON, in his sixteenth query, has described this phantom as of pavonian coloursf but I can distinguish no other than white; arld it *seems uost natural that thisn lDeing thc compound or average ofall existing setlsations of light should be produced when nothlng detertnilles to any particular colour. 1:'his average seelns to resenlble the rniddle fortnn wlrich Sir JOSHUA REY. YOUNG>S Observations on Yision*-oNOLDS has elegantly insisted on in his discourses; so that perhaps some principles of beautiful contrast of colours may be drawn from hencea it being probable that those colours which together approach near to white light will have the most pleasing effiect in apposition. It must be observed, that the sensation of light from pressure of the eye sllbsides almost instantly after tlae motion of pressure has ceased, so that the cause of the irritation of the retina 1bS a change, and rwot a diffbrence, of form, and therefore the sensation of light appears to depend ilnmediately on a minute motion of some part of the optic nerve. If the anterior part of the eye be repeatedly pressed, so as to occasion some degree of paina and a colltinued pressure be then made on the sclerotica, while an interr.upted pressure is made on the cornea; we shall frequently be able to observe an appearance of luminous lines branched, and somewhat connected with each otherS darting from every part of the field of view towards a centre a llttle exterior and superior to the axis of the eye. This centre corresponds to the insertion of the optic nerves and the appearance of lines is probably occasioned by that motion of the retina which is produced by the sudden return of the circulating ffuida into the veins accompanying tlae ramifications of the arteria centralis after having been detaIned lby the pressure which is now interlnitted. As such an obstructiorl and such a re-admission must require particular circumstances in order to be effected in a sensible degreey it may naturally be supposed that this experiment will noW always easiltr succeed. h Mr. YOUNG8S Obserrations oeMzsion.Explanation of the Figurese TabeXX fig. . A vertical section of the ox's eye, of twice the natural size. A. The cornea, covered by the tunica conjunctiera. BCl3. The sclerotica, covered at I3B by the tunicia-albuginea, and tunica corlJunctiva. DI). The choroid, consisting of two laminas. EEe The circle of adherence of the choroid and sclerotica. FG, FG. The orbiculus ciliaris. HI, HK. The iXvea: its anterior surface the iris; iA posterior surface lined with pigmexltum nigrum. IE(. tThe pupilx HL, HL. The ciliary processes, covered with pigrwatum . Xll,grum. MM. The retirla. N. The aqueous humourX O. The crystalline lens. P. The vitreous humour. QR, QRj Thezona ciliaris RS,RS. The annulus mucosus Fig. 2. Thestructllre of the crystalline lens as viewed in froxa$. Fig. . A side view of the crystallineOMDCCXCIIX. 