XVII. An Account of a Quadruped brought from Bengal, and now to be seen in London: Presented by James Parsons, M. D. & F. R. S. B E I N G always desirous of laying before this Learned Society whatsoever appears to me new and curious, I embraced the present Opportunity of viewing and describing this Creature, which I cannot find mentioned by any Natural Historian, nor any Figure exhibited, in the least, like it. Nor is it indeed to be wonder'd at, since the Beast was brought to Bengal, from a very remote Part of the Mogul's Dominions; insomuch that no Person at Bengal had the least Knowledge of him. Read June 27. 1745. The only Hint that seems to point at this Creature, is that mentioned by John Albert de Mandelsloe, in his Voyages thro' the Indies, which are published in H A R R I S's Complete Collection of Voyages and Travels, No. 52. p. 775. where he says, that, among the Horses in the Stables of the Viceroy of Goa, he saw `` a Beast called a Biggel, a Creature `` much about the Colour and Bigness of a Rain`` deer: Its Head like that of a Horse; its Main like `` that [466] `` that of an Ass, with black cloven Feet, and two `` black Horns on his Head.'' This is the Whole of his Account, which is so imperfect, that it can hardly be thought absolutely to mean this very Beast before us. The following Description and Drawing I hope will be found pretty exact; and may serve to shew with which Genus of Quadrupeds he may be classed, and, consequently, what proper Name may be given him; which I submit to this learned Society to determine. The Creature is a Male, having the Penis and Testicles like those of a Deer; but, as the Penis does not come very forward, it cannot be seen in a side View of the Animal. The Head is formed like that of a Deer, with a rhomboidal Spot of black Hair on his Forehead; his Ears are dark without, and yellowish within, with dark Spots toward their Edges; and the Horns rise about seven Inches high, bending forwards; which is very particular, because those of all other horned Animals are directed sideways or backward, except the Brow-Antlers of some Kinds of Deer. He keeps his Ears in continual Motion, which is an Action common with Deer, and butts with his Horns as they do. His Eyes are black and lively, and the Rictus Oris is long. His Neck bends forward like the Deer Kind, but is thick and strong, somewhat resembling that of a Male Deer in rutting Time. His Mane is thin of Hair like that of an Ass, and on the convex Part of his Neck forward he has a Tuft of black Hair. His Shoulders are thick, and his Breast pretty broad and strong, from which a Piece of loose Skin hangs like the Dewlap of a Cow. His [467] His Legs are slender, with cloven Hoofs like those of a Deer. His Back rises, directly over his Shoulder, pretty high, upon which the Mane, continued from his Neck, ends in a Tuft of Hair. From the Back of this Bunch or Rising, his posterior Parts resemble those of an Ass, having a Tail like that of the Ass, only it is flat on the Side next the Animal, and convex on the Back. It is about two-and-twenty Inches long, and ends with some long Hairs. He is of a light Ash-Colour, having a smooth Coat of short Hairs, which grow darker, inclining towards a black, upon some Parts of his Limbs. He has some White under his Belly towards his Breast, and under his Tail, with white Testicles. He feeds on Hay, Grass, or any kind of Greens; and, being tried whether he would eat raw Flesh, refused it. His Keeper says, when he lies down he chews the Cud; and his Excrements are like those of a Deer. He is about twelve Hands high to the Top of the Bunch in his Back. His Keeper says, he never lies down on either Side, but directly upon his Limbs like the Camel, and that he rises as suddenly as that Beast. There is something very particular in his Voice, which imitates the creaking Noise of a Child's Rattle, or the Croaking of some Birds, rather than the Voice of any Quadruped except the Deer, who, think, exhibits something like it in rutting Time. See a Print done from the Drawing I made of this Beast, TAB. III. Fig. 9. XVIII. 