Fig. 1. p. 289. B F C A D Philos. Trans. N~. 481. TAB. ~. B F Philos.Trans. N~. 481. TAB. I. p. 289. B C L A K L F F D G H E I G I J. Mynde so. [285] V. A Letter from Peter Templeman, M.D. to Wm. Battie, M. D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, London, and F.R.S. concerning a Polypus at the Heart, and a Scirrhous Tumour of the Uterus. S I R, THE following Case appearing to me to be a remarkable Instance of a Polypus at the Heart, and of a scirrhous Uterus, I immediately determined to communicate it to you. Read Nov. 27. 1746. A N N H I C K S was brought to the Workhouse of St. Andrew's Holborn on Saturday the 15th of November, 1746. Her Complaints were, a Difficulty of Breathing, from a Cold she had caught about a Fortnight before, with a violent Pain and Palpitation of her Heart. The Pulse was scarce perceptible. The Surgeon, Mr. Tait, being present, I order'd him to open a Vein; but to keep his Finger on the Pulse; and if it did not rise on her losing a little Blood, immediately to desist. Upon her losing an Ounce or two of Blood, the Pulse grew more languid, and he accordingly desisted. I then order'd a large Blister to be applied to her Neck, and gave her oily Medicines with the vovolatile Salts. I did not visit at the Workhouse again till the Wednesday following, when I found her much [286] much easier in her Breath, but the Pain and Palpitation of the Heart continuing. As the oily Medicines had occasioned a violent Purging, I order'd her the Elixir asthmaticum in Cinnamon-Water. Her Pulse was still so little discernible, that though I think it intermitted, yet I cannot be positive. Upon my telling you on Thursday my Apprehensions of a Polypus at her Heart, from the Pain and Palpitation of it, you desired, that, when she died, her Body might be open'd. To you therefore are we indebted for whatever curious was discover'd. She died on Friday, and her Body was open'd on Saturday. Upon exposing the Body naked on the Table, we were surprised with the Sight of a very large and hard Swelling in the hypogastric Region; concluding it at the first View to be a Child; and the more so, because the Woman had never made any Complaint of an Uneasiness in those Parts. Having open'd the Body, we found this Swelling to be of the Uterus, which was greatly enlarged, and extremely hard. Besides the whole Body of the Uterus being thus enlarged and hardened, there were two large Protuberances distinct from each other, that grew prominent out of the upper Surface of the Uterus, and were each of them of the Size of a large Egg. There was likewise a third Protuberance on the opposite Side, but much smaller than the other two; and another that seem'd to be but just budding. We cut down directly through one of the large Protuberances into the very Body of the Uterus, and found nothing but a solid Mass [287] Mass of a cartilaginous Substance. The Texture indeed of the Protuberance was somewhat laxer than of the Body of the Uterus. Having cut down very deep into the Uterus, and found nothing but this solid Mass, we introduced a Probe from the O s Tincae, to examine if there was any Cavity in the Uterus; and found a small one reaching to the Fundus, and barely large enough to admit the Probe. The Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes were in their natural State; except a small Deviation of the Fallopian Tube on the right Side. I know no Writer that has taken notice of a similar Appearance in the Uterus, but Ruysch; and his Words I beg leave to cite. They are in his Thesaurus Anatomicus Decimus, ~. CVI. `` Uterus hu`` manus scirrhosus factus, et in majorem molem ex`` tensus, id quod in vetulis aliquoties observavi ~ `` praeterea ex superficie superiore alter et exiguus `` scirrhus emergit, ut et ovaria, ovorum ductus `` (tubae Fallopianae dicti) satis bene disposita; et haec `` omnia in liquore.'' He has not given any Plate or Description of the Dimensions of his enlarged Uterus; but this, which I have been describing, is, in its greatest Breadth 4 Inches and 3/4; its Length from the O s Tincae 6 Inches; Thickness, 3 Inches and an half; and its Weight, including the Ovaries, Fallopian Tubes, &c. two Pounds twelve Ounces of Avoirdupoise Weight. Whatever Ruysch had observed of that kind were in old Women. This Woman I take to have been between 30 and 40. He does not mention having seen more than one small additional Scirrhus; whereas in O o ours [288] ours there were three or four. And, lastly, he does not mention any thing of the hard cartilaginous Substance of the Uterus. There were several remarkable Adhesions in the Abdomen and Thorax; as of the Omentum to the Peritonaeum, of the Lungs to the Pleura and Diaphragm, of the Pericardium to the pleura. The Liver and Spleen appear'd in their natural State: The Kidneys were enlarged beyond their usual Size: The coronary Veins of the Heart were much distended with Blood, and the Lungs inflamed to a Degree of Mortification. Upon examining the Cavities of the Heart, we found in the right Ventricle a polypose Concretion of a fleshy fibrous Substance that adhered to the Ventricle, and, in separating it from thence, was rent into two Pieces. Your most obliged humble Servant, Peter Templeman. London, Nov. 26. 1746. P. S. I have annexed two Figures, representing this praeternatural Uterus, drawn by the ingenious Dr. Parsons. See TAB. I. and TAB. II. Fig. [289] TAB. I. Represents the back Part of the Uterus with its scirrhous Tumours. A is the Uterus. B, The great Scirrhus. C, One of the great Protuberances. D, The Cervix Uteri. E, Part of the Vagina. FF, The Ovaries. GG, The Extremities of the Fallopian Tubes. H, One of the Muscles called Ligamenta rotunda. II, Spermatic Vessels. K, The Edge of the Alae Vespertilionis on the left Side. LL, Two small Protuberances. TAB. II. Fig. 1. Represents the fore Part of the same Uterus laid open, by cutting through the Middle of the Scirrhus. A, The Cavity of the Uteras. BB, The divided Surfaces of the great Scirrhus. C, The fore Part of one of the great Protuberances. D, The Cervix Uteri laid open. E, The Vagina laid open. F, The divided Surface of the Protuberance that was cut through. O o 2 V. 