A further Accompt of the Stellar Fish; formerly described in Numb. 57. p. 1153; with the Addition of some other Curiosities. THis Accompt was communicated by the same Gentleman, that imparted the former, in a Letter written from Boston in New England Oct. 26. 1670. as followeth; Since (2222) -Since my former, I found out the Fisher man, who brought that Stellar Fish from Sea. I asked all the questions I could think needful concerning it. I understood from him, that he never saw nor heard of any but those few, that were taken by himself, which were not above six or seven in all, and those at several times, not far from the Shoals of Nantucket (which is an Island upon the Coast of New England,) when he was fishing for Cod, and such like Marchantable fish. This Stellar Fish, when it was alive, and first pull'd out of the water, vvas like a basket, and had gathered it self round like a Wicker-basket, having taken fast hold upon that bait on the hook, which he had sunk down to the bottom to catch other Fish, and having held that within the surrounding brachia, would not let it go,though drawn up into the Vessel; until by lying a while on the Deck, it felt the want of its natural Element,and then voluntarily it extended it self into the flat round form, in which it appear'd when presented to your view. What motion these fishes had in the water, could not be known to him,for the water was deep,& they could not be seen in any other form than so gather'd up together to hold fast the bait. The only use that could be discern'd of all that curious composure wherewith Nature had adorned it, seems to be, to make it as a pursenet to catch some other fish or any other thing fit for its food, and as a basket of store to keep some of it for future supply, or as a receptacle to preserve and defend the young ones of the same kind from fish of prey; if not to feed on them also (which appears probable the one or the other;) for that sometimes there were found pieces of Mackerel within that concave: And he told me, that once he caught one, which had within the hollow of its embracements a very small fish of the same kind, together with some piece or pieces of an other fish, which was judged to be of a Mackerel. And that small one ('tis like) was kept either for its preservation or for food to the greater; but being alive, it seems most likely it was there lodged for safety, except it were accidentally drawn within the net, together (2223) ther with that piece of fish, upon which it might be then feeding. He told me further, that every one of those smallest parts* had motion when it was alive, and a tenacious strength; but after it was dead and extended to a flat round, it was so britle that it could not be handled without breaking some parts of it; but by careful laying of it to dry, it was thereby somewhat hardened. * See the Figure of this Fish in Numb. 57. He added, that he had taken one of this kind of fish the latter end of this Summer,but had left it with a friend at another port where he had been. Mean time he promised to procure it for me when he should sail thither again, if it vvere not then broken or defaced. I hope I shall engage him for the future to take better notice of what may be remarkable about it. Upon occasion I have inquired of divers other Fishermen and Mariners, but can meet with none other that ever have taken any of these fishes. This Fisherman could not tell me of any name it hath,and 'tis in all likelihood yet nameless,being not commonly known as other Fish are. But, until a fitter English name be found for it, why may it not be called (in regard of what hath been before mentioned of it) a Basket-Fish, or a Net Fish, or a Purs-net-Fish? I send you withal a litle Box,with a Curiosity in it,which perhaps will be counted a triflle, yet 'tis rarely to be met with even here. It is the curiously contrived Nest of a HummingBird*, so called from the humming noise it maketh whil'st it flies. 'Tis an exceeding litle Bird, and only seen in Summer,and mostly in Gardens,flying from flower to flower, sucking Hony out of the flowers as a Bee doth; as it flieth not lighting on the flower, but hovering over it, sucking with its long Bill a sweet substance. There are in the same Nest two of that Birds Eggs *? Whether they use to have more at once, I know not. I never saw but one of those Nests before; and that Lll was * Of which see a notable Description in the History of the Antiles l.1.c.15.art.17. where it hath the name of Colibry. * These Eggs were so small, that being weighed by the Publisher, the one weighed but about 5 grains, the other 31: And the whole Nest weighed no more then 24 grains. (2224) was sent over formerly, with some other Rarities, but the Vessel miscarrying you received them not. 