Philosoph Transact: ~ 235 Fig: 1 A C 10 B (779) 1. Two Observations, one about the Death of a Dog on firing a Volley of small Shot: the other about the Polypus of the Lungs, communicated in a Letter of Mr. Robert Clarke, to Dr. Martin Lister, Fellow of the Colledge of Physicians and R. S. Dated Nov. 8. 1697. With the Doctor's Opinion of the last of them. UPON the Proclaiming the Peace, about a Week ago, Two Troops of Horse dismounted, were drawn in a Line in order to fire their Vollies, the Center of their Line was against a Butchers Door, who kept a very large Mastiff Dog, the biggest in our Town, a Dog of Great Courage for fighting, this Dog was laid by the Fire side asleep by the Servants, but upon the first Volley the Souldiers made he immediately started up, ran into a Chamber, and hid himself under the Bed, the Maid Servant going to beat him down (he never using to go up Stairs) as she was about so doing, a Second Volley came, which made the Dog rise, run several times about the Chamber with violent Tremblings, and strange seeming Agonies; but immediately a Third Volley came, and then the Dog ran about once or twice more violently, and fell down and died immediately, with throwing out Blood at Mouth and Nose. The other I saw this very Day, viz. A poor Man,a Taylor by Trade,as he gives me an Account,has been ill by times this Four Years,but for Three Years last past, has frequently coughed up the similitude inclosed,(vid.Tab.Fig.1.)but some bigger and some lesser, I (780) I know not what to call it, but I drew it as well as I could from Two he brought me. He coughs them up after a continued Coughing of almost half a Day or Night, and knows when they come, at the first feeling great Pains round his Chest; he has voided Hundreds of them in this Three Years, and all alike, though some a great deal bigger, and many less than the Description. They don't seem, he saith, to have Life; but he has press'd a Sliminess out of the Body, and so through that part which seems to be the Head. He is now very meager, and complains of great Pains about his Chest and Back Part answerable to it. I beg your Opinion herein: I have just now communicated it to our Physicians, and humbly crave your Pardon for the Trouble. Vid. Tab. Fig. 1. which has a great many more Fibrils toward the latter End than I express, and seems to be very nervous. Dr. Lister's Opinion of this Observation. THese are figured in the remoter and deeper Branches of the Aspera Arteria: and therefore so difficult to get up. They are nothing else but the viscous Excretions of the small Glands hard baked in those Molds, whose Form they Receive; and may, if we strain a Metaphor, be called Polypus's of the Lungs. II. An 