i: 126) VIL' 0n th methods of cutting rock crystalfor micrometers. By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON, M. D. F. R. S. Read February 24, 1820. For the mere purpose of examining the phenomena of dou-f ble refraction, it is extremely easy for any skilful workman to combine a wedge of rock crystal, or any other doubly refracting substance, with another wedge of crown glass op. posed to it, in such a manner that a luminous object seen through them shall appear in its true place by ordinary re-. fraction, accompanied by a second image at a small distance, produced by the extraordinary refraction of the crystal. In consequence of the dispersion of colours which occurs in employing different substances, the above combination is not suited for the purpose of the micrometer invented by the Abbe RoCHON; but it i's not difficult to obtain such a section of rock crystal as may be substituted for the wedge of glass, so that the pencil of light shall be restored to its original direction void of colour, without diminishing the separation of the images occasioned by. the first wedge. But since the degree to which the double refraction of rock crystal separates the two portions of a beam of light transi. mitted through it, is not so great as may frequently be wished, it becomes desirahle to increase this effect beyond what can be produced by the most obvious method of employing that substance; and it does appear from M. RocHON'S own account Dr. WOLLASTON on the methods of, &c. 127 of his contrivarnce* that he fully succeeded in accomplishing this ends But although he informs us that the means employed, as best suited to his views, had exactly the effect of doubling the amount of deviation produced by ordinary means, he has not chosen to explain the mode of construction he adopted, and has merely referred to-a certain artist living at that time in Paris, who was in possession of his secret, and skilful in applying it to the construction of micrometers. As I have reason to, think that the method to which he alludes in his memoir has never yet been described, I design, in the present communication, to explain a combination which I have found advantageous and which I think must lbe the same as that of M. RocHoN. I shall hope to render the principles of this construction intelligible to every one acquainted with the original observation of HUYGENS on the properties of polarised light, and to enable any competent artist to cut wedges from hexagonal prisms of rock crystal, in the positions requisite to produce, by their combination, the double effect to which I allude. There are three principal directions in which a crystal may be cut specifically different from each other, which require to be distinctly understood. In the first place, let us suppose a prismatic crystal to be placed with its axis in a vertical position, and a portion to be cut off from the base by a plane surface at right angles to the axis, and sufficient to form a wedge of 2o degrees, by giving it a second surface duly inclined to the former. For distinction, this may be called the hoizontal wedge. Next, let the crystal be bisected vertically by a plane* Journal de Physique, An. 9. 128 Dr. WOLLASTON On the methods of passing through two opposite edges of the prism, in order to make two other wedges which are to be cut in different directions from the two portions, and to have each the same angle of 0o degrees. Let one of the halves thus obtained be slit in a plane which meets the, surface of bisection -in one of the edges of the original prism, and consequently, in a line parallel to the axis. The wedge thus formed may be called a lateral wedge. Let the remaining half be cut by another plane not vertical, but inclined to the vertical plane at an angle of go0, and meet. ing it in a line parallel to the base, or at right angles to the axis. This may be called a vertical wedge. We have thus three wedges cut in different directions tat right angles to each other, and, accordingly, having their axes of crystallization differently placed in each. In the first, or horizontal wedge, the axis is at right angles to the first surface. In the second, or lateral wedge, the axis is parallel in the first surface, and parallel to its acute edge. In the third, or vertical wedge, the axis is also in the first surface, but it is at right angles to the acute edge. An object seen through the first wedge in the direction of the axis, does not appear double; but; since rays transmitted through the second or third, pass at right angles to the axis, both of these wedges give two images of any object seen through them. There are obviously three modes in which these wedges may be combined in pairs, by placing two of them together with their acute edges in opposite directions. The first pair may be represented by L H ; the second by V HI; the third by V L. In the two first cases cutting rock crystal for micrometers. 129 the separation of the images will be the same, since the angles of all the wedges are supposed to be made equal, the compound medium will be comprised under parallel surfaces, so that a ray ordinarily refracted by both, emerges in its original direction; but since the extraordinary ray is made to deviate about 17 minutes from the ordinary course by the wedge which refracts doubly, this difference is not corrected. by the horizontal wedge, so that an object seen through either of the combinations L H or V H, appears doubled to the amount of 17'. The third combination, consisting of the vertical and lateral wedges combined, as in the former cases, with their acute edges in opposite directions, produces an effect perfectly dis.: tinct from either of the former combinations; for by reason of the transverse position of their axes of crystallization, the separation of the two images becomes exactly doubled. The consequence of that position is, that the pencil ordinarily refracted by the first wedge, is refracted extraordinarily by the second, and that which has been refracted extraordinarily by the first, suflers a similar interchange, and is now ordinarily refracted, so that neither of the divided pencils returns to its true place,; and since one falls as much short of the mean as the -other exceeds the truth, they emerge ultimately separated twice the usual difference between the ordinary and extraordinary refractions, and thus present twolimages separated At minutes, just double of that which is effected by either of the preceding combinations. Thou gh it could scarcely be doubted that this is essentially the construction which was employed by M. RodHON, there is an additional circumstance concerning the effect of such a MDCCCXX. S :130 Dr. WOLLASTON on the methods of pair of wedges when otherwise combined, which fully espy tablishes the identity of the method here proposed with his.If the two wedges be placed with their edges together, so Was to form bv their union a wedge of 40o, the consequence is, that though apencil of light is in fact divided into two parts by the first wedge, both parts in the end emerge together; the refraction of one being o + e, and of the' other e + o: they both deviate from their original direction by exactly the same quantity, and present only a single image of the luininous object; but it is coloured, as usual, in proportionto the amount of deviation occasioned by the sum of the wedges. This, without doubt, is the first of two opposite directions mentioned by M. ROCHON, in which he says the double refraction was not perceptible. Pour cet effht" says M. ROCHON, ".' employai deux prismes egaux tailles dans le sens le plus favorable a mes vues, et en les presentant dans les deux sens opposes je "trouvai, que dans la premiere disposition la double refrac"tion n'etoit pas perceptible, mais, en faisant prendre 'a mes prismes un sens inverse, la double refraction de chaque "prisme etoit presque doublee." The correspondence in the effect which I have described, renders this passage from' M. RoCHoN perfectly intelligible; and I hope the directions above given will be sufficient to enable any one to cut a crystal to the greatest advantage for making this sort of micrometer. But it must be observed, that in attempting such a construction, great nicety is requisite, not only in cutting the wedges so that the refraction in each shall take place at right angles to the axis, but also in cementing them together, so that the axes of the two wedges cutting rock crystalfor micrometers. 131 shall be at right angles to each other. And it may farther be remarked, that even then, unless the pencil of light pa~s truly in the common plane of refraction of the wedges, four images will be formed, so as to destroy the effect of the combination. From the Press of W. BUL-MIER & Co. Cleveland-row, St. 7ames's, London. 