Philos. Trans. No. 490. TAB. I. A most antient Shrine, of curious enamel'd work, on Copper, in 12 inches long 10.1/2 high 4.3/4 broad? p. 579 J. Mynde se. Copper, in Colours. Philos. Trans. No. 490. TAB. II. The Backside of the Shrine. This elegant ~ is in Possession Sr. ~ Cotton Baronel. ~. p. 580. Possession of [579] I. An Account of an antient Shrine, formerly belonging to the Abbey of Croyland; by Wm. Stukely M. D. Coll. Med. Lond. Soc. & Eccles. D. Georgii Martyr. Lond. Rector. THE Shrine before us is a great Curiosity. Few of this kind of Antiquities escap'd the general Ravage of the Dissolution of Abbeys: For which Reason I thought it would be an agreeable Amusement to the Society to have a View of it; and to preserve a Drawing of it as in TAB. I. and II. The Shrine is made of Oak, plated over with Copper, upon which the Figures are chaced in Gold: The Ground is enamel'd with blue; in the Ridge along the Top are three oval Chrystals set transparently; its Dimensions are as expressed under the Print. Read Dec. 8. 1748. Mr. Eayre of St. Neots sent it to me to have my Opinion of it. It was found in the House of a Gentleman of that Neighbourhood, who never shew'd it during his Life-time; and who possibly might have given us some Account, as to the History of it; and at present we have no means left of finding it out, but by Conjecture. I conceive it came from Croyland-Abbey. There was an Intercourse between this Abbey and St. Neot's Priory; insomuch that St. Neot's Body was carriea hence to Croyland-Abbey, and inshrined there. G g g g These [580] These Shrines were made for receiving Reliques of Saints, in old Abbeys, Churches, and Cathedrals. (See a Print in the History of Canterbury, and in Dugdale's Monasticon, of the high Altar of the Church of St. Augustin there; no less than thirteen of these Shrines standing around). These were carried about in Processions on their anniversary Days; sometimes embellished with Jewels of inestimable Value. Besides these portable ones, there were others, built of Stone, Marble, and other Materials; like that of St. Edward the Confessor in Westminster-Abbey; one now in Chester Cathedral of St. Werburga, whereon the episcopal Throne is set, adorn'd with Sculptures of Saxon Kings and Saints: One of St. Thomas de Cantelupe Bishop of Hereford, in that Cathedral. These now remain. There was one in the Church of Burton-Coggles; Lincolnshire; and of Heckington in the same County; and innumerable others, destroy'd at the Dissolution of Monasteries. The Shrine before us, from the Manner of drawing, and Workmanship, I conclude to be of Saxon Antiquity, and that very high; now near 900 Years old. I think it gives us the Story of the Murder of the Abbot there, and his Monks, perpetrated by the barbarous Danes, in the Year 870. Sept. 25. that Year, they rush'd into the Church of Croyland, whilst the Religious were at divine Service. Ingulphus, Abbot of the Place, in his History, gives us this Account. Lord Theodore was then Abbot of Croyland; who at that time pontifically osficiated at the high Altar, expecting the Barbarians. King Osketyl cut off his Head upon the Altar. Verus Martyr et Christi hostia immolatur, says [581] says our Author, Ministri circumstantes omnes capi tibus detruncati: `` Thus fell the true Martyr and `` Lamb of Christ, as a Sacrifice on the Altar. All `` the assistant Ministers were beheaded likewise,'' says he. The two on our Shrine are Frier Elfget the Deacon, and Frier Savin the Subdeacon. Some Days after, when the Monks that fled returned, they found the Body of the venerable Abbot Theodore beheaded at the Altar. Above is represented his Successor Abbot Godric, with the Ministers about him, putting the deceased Abbot into his Shroud; whilst Angels are carrying his Soul up to Heaven. I suppose some Part of this Martyr might be obtained, and kept in this Shrine. I observe the famous old sepulcral Stone in Peterborough Minster-Yard, is exactly of the same Shape as our Shrine. It was set up over the Grave of the Abbot and Monks murder'd by the same Danes, the Day after those of Croyland-Abbey suffer'd, Sept. 26. It is carv'd on the Sides with the Images of our Saviour and the Apostles. It is now remov'd into the Library. Nov. 23. 1748. W. Stukely. G g g g 2 II. 