Microscopical Observations of the Structure of Hair: Made also and Communicated by the abovesaid Mr. Anthony Leeuwenhoeck. I Have formerly examined the Structure of Hair; and so much as I thought I saw my self, shewed to certain learned Gentlemen; who then all agreed with me, that it consisted wholly of Globules. As did also to my thinking the Hoof of an Elk. But not being satisfied, without further inquiry; I took the Hair of my Beard, after it had been shaved the first, second, third, and fourth days, and observed, That the little particles which we saw through the common Microscopes (which yet were very good) and which appeared round, were indeed irregular,and lay very closely pressed one upon another. Of these particles consist the outer parts, or Cuticle (or, as the Author calls them, Clods) of the Hair. One of these Hairs I met with, which seemed rare, being on the one side convex, on the 6 P 3 other (1004) other somewhat concave, and looking like two Hairs continuous or growing together; as is represented by this Fig. A. B. Is about a dayes growth & half out of the skin. Betwixt A. B. and D. E. are the irregular particles which make the Clods of the Hair. These irregular particles I judg to beat first Globular;but as the Hair grows, to lose their original Figure. B.C.D. is the Cut the Barbars Rasor had made in shaving. Prosecuting this enquiry, I try'd also to observe these Globules or little particles in the end of the Hair cut transversely, thereby to compute how many of them were conteined in some small part of the Hair. But I found that the structure of the iner part of the Hair, did not agree with that of the outside or Clods. I then examined the Roots of several Hairs, plucked out of my Hand, Nostrils, Eyelid, Eye-brow, and other parts, and clearly saw, That the whole Root, except the Clods, consisted of little Strings, which I suppose to be Veins or Vessels. And I have shew'd the Root of a Hair with all its Fibres, so plainly, as if before our Eyes, we had seen lying a common Tree with all its Roots: except that these Fibres in the Root of a Hair, were all of a thickness. C F B D A E Proceeding further, I likewise very clearly discern'd, that the whole Hair, except the Clods, consisted of little Strings, (1005) Strings, whereof there were about a thousand in one Hair more or fewer; according to the thickness of the Hair Whether these Strings are hollow, i e. so many Pipes or Vessels, I cannot positively say, but it seemeth to me that they are. So that I conceive we may not unfitly compare the Clods of the Hair (consisting of the aforesaid irregular particles) to the Bark of a Tree; and the little strings which compose all that part of the Hair within the Clods, to the Pipes which make the Wood. These Strings, or if you please, Pipes, do not lie every where stretched out in a straight line,but in some places are somewhat crooked, as at F. I have also shewed several Gentlemen the Brissles of a Hog; and therein (being cut over thwart with a sharp knife) the said Strings, very distinctly: which likewise seemed to be hollow. 