136 1 VI. Observations on the Effects of Magnes if fi preventing an increased Formation of Uric Acid; wvith some Remarks on the Composition of the Urine. Communicated by Mr. William T. Brande, F. R. S. to the Society for the Improvemnent of' Animal Chemistry, and by themn to the Royal Society. Read February an, i8io.c M[R. HOME'S enquiries into the functions of the stomach, and his discovery of liquids passing from the cardiac portion, into the circulation of the bloody led him to consider, that the generality of calculous complaints nliglht possibly be preo vented, by introducing into the stomach, SuCh substances as are capable of preventing the formation of uric acid, and that this mode of treatment would have many advantages over the Lsual method, which consists in attempting to dissolve the uric acid after it is formed. HI consulted Mr. IATCHETT on the substance most likely to produce this effect, and asked if magnesia, from its Insolubility in water, wvas not well adapted for the purpose, as it would reiain in the stomach, until it should combine wxith any 'acid, or be carried along with the food towards the pylorus. Mr. IIHATCHETT knew of nothing more likely to produce the desired effect; and on putting this theory to the test of experiment, it was found by a very careful examination ofa Philos. Trans, i8o8. Mr. W. BRANDE'S Observations, &c. 137 the urine, that in several instances where there was an increased formation of uric acid, magnesia diminished it in a much greater degree than had been elfected by the use, and that a very liberal one, of the alkalies in the same patient. This circumstance led Mr. ilomrz to wish for a more complete investigation of the subject, and he requested me to assist him in the prosecution of it. Since that ftne many opportunities have occurred of carrying on the inquiry during an attendance on patients, labouring under calculous covm plaints. It is proposed to lay the results of our joint labours before this Society, with a view to establish a fact of so much importance in the treatment of those diseases. The four following cases, include the principal varieties of the disorder, which have been met with, and are therefore selected from among many others, to prevent unnecessary repetitions. In each of them the urine was occasionally carefully analysed. CASE L A gentleman, sixty years of age, who had been in the habit of indulging in the free use of acid liquors, had repeatedly passed small calculi composed entirely of uric acid ; his urine immediately after being voided, deposited at all times a considerable quantity of that substance, in the form of a red powder, and occasionally in larger crystals. Nine drachmns of subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in water highly impregnated with carbonic acid, and taken in the course of the day at three dosos, appeared to have no efiect vhatever on the formation of uric acid; the red sand was MDCCcx. 1 133 1>. N 3RANDT< Observations on the Effects deposited V6 sunal, and the small -calculi continued to form. On account of the inefficacy of this medicine, he was advised to try the vegetable 1lk ali, and three drachms of subcarbonate of potash dissolved in water, slightly imn-regnated with carbonic acid, were talken at similar intervals. The deposit of uric acid in the urine, was now somewhat diminished ; but during tnis free use of alkalies, which with little interruption, was persevered in for more than a year, the small calculi still continued to be voided. The very unusual disposition to form uric acid, and the complete failure of the common alkaline medicines, rendered this case particularly favourable for the trial of magnesia, as it would afford an opportunity of comparing its effects with those of the alkalies. Previous to giving the magnesia, the urine was examined, to ascertain the quantity of uric acid it contained: this being done, the patient was directed to take fifteen grains of magi nesia three times a day, in an ounce and a half of infusion of gentian: in a week the uric acid was found, by examining the urine, to have diminished in quantity, and after the first three 'weeks, it was only occasionally met with. The use of magnesia has been persevered in for eight months, during which time no calculi have been voided, nor has there been any material deposit in the urine. This patient was extremely subject to heartburn, and he likewise complained of a sense of weight and uneasiness about the region of the stomach, both of which symptoms have disappeared. Ma'gnes 'a in Calcilozis Complaints. CASE II. A gentleman, about 40 years of age, had during four years occasionally voided considerable quantities of uric acid, in the form of red sand, and had once passed a small calculus. His urine was generally, more or less turbid, and after talking any thing which disagreed with his stomach, even in a slight degree, the red sand often made its appearance. He had never used the alkalies nor any other medicine, to alleviate his disorder, he was consequently desired to take a drachm and a half of subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in a pint and a half of water highly impregnated with carbonic acid, in the course of the day, and to persevere in this treatment for some time. On the 3oth of January 18o9, he left London, and returned on the 6th of March following. During his absence he had voided rat ier less uric acid than usual, but had had one severe attack, in consequence of whicl twenty drops of the solution of pure potash were added to. each dose of the soda water; this, however, had not tile det sired effect, for on the ioth of March, having taken more. wine than usual on the preceding day, he w as attacked w pith pain in the right kidney, and voided with his urine a considerable quantity of uric acid, in the form of minute Fed crystals. During the succeeding day, he made but little water, which deposited a copious sediment of red sand. For the removal of this symptom, he was directed to take magnesia, in the dose of twenty grains every night and morning, in a little water; for three successive days his bowels were unusually relaxed, but afterwards became regular. He T 9r 140 r. \V. BRAND 'S 5 Observatiw'on ti e Effects persevered in its use for six weeks without intermiission ; his urine was several times examined during that period, and contained no superabundant uric acid, and he has not had the sliihtest return of his complaint, although he has put hliniself under no unusual restraint in his mode of living. CASE Ill. About the middle of October 18o8, a gentleman, forty three years of age, after taking violent horse exercise, was seized with pain in the right kidney and ureter. In the course of the night he passed a small uric calculus. For some months previous to this attack, he had felt occasional pain in the kidney, but had never voided either calculi or sand. His urine was now always turbid, and occasionally deposited red sand. On the o.8th of October he began the use of soda water, and for a time, his urine was much improved in appearance, but the uric acid gradually returned, and at the end of Deo cember, notwithstanding ti e co itinued use of the soda water, he voided more sand, and his urine was more loaded with mucus,, than it had esver been before. In consequence of these symptoms, on the 3d of January 1809, he was directed to take twenty grains of magnesia every night. The urine was examined after the third dose, and the deposit of red sand was diminislied in quantity, but it did not disappear entirely, after the magnesia had been taken for three weeks. About this time (on the 26th of January) he caught cold, and his urine was again very turbid, but this was found to be wholly the effect of mucus, and the symptom soon left him. of Magnesia in Calculous Comnplaints. 14 On the 3oth of January, he took twenty grains of magnesia, and repeated it every night and morning, until the ist of March, when his urine was perfectly healthy, and he left it off: On the ist of June, lhe again voided a little uric acid, in the form of red crystalline sand: this attack was attended with a slight pain along the right ureter. He returned to the use of the magnesia, which he took twice a day for three weeks, in the same dose as before, and from that time to the middle of November, there had been no symptoms of a return of the complaint. CASE IV. A gentleman, aged fifty six, after recovering from a severe fit of the gout, voided constantly a large quantity of mucus in his urine, a symptom which he had never before noticed. There was also, occasionally, abundance of red sand, consisting principally of uric acid, but he had never voided a calculus. His stomach was uncommonly weak, he was often affected with heartburn, and an almost constant pain in the neighbourhood of the right kidney. He had been in the habit of taking tinctureof bark, and other spirituous medicines, fronm a belief, that the pain in his right side arose from gout in thp stomach. He had already attempted to use the alkalies, which had produced such unpleasant sensations in the stomach, that he could not be prevailed upon to try them again in any form. Under these circumstances, he readily acceded to a new plan of treatment. He was directed to omit the use of spit rituous medicines, and take twenty grains of magnesia, three 142 Mr. W. BRANDE'S Observations on the Effects times a day 'in water, but this operating too powerfully upon the bowels, the same quantity of magnesia was taken twice a day only, with an addition of five drops of laudanumn to each dose. This plan was puirsued without intermission for three weeks, and he received considerable benefit, as far as concern ed the state of the stomach, and pain in the region of the kidney. Theurine, which was examined once a week, was also, on the whole improved, but it occasionally deposited a very copious sediment, consisting of uric acid, with a variable proportion of mucous secretion. After a further continuance of the use of the magnesia for three weeks, the urine was often much loaded with uric acid, and mucus, but these appearances, which before the use of the magnesia were constant, are now only occasional, so that the disposition to form a redundant quantity of uric acid, is inuch diminished: it is also deservingr of rem ark, that there s not b een the slighitest symnptoin of gout furnm the time of the last attack, which is m ore than a year back, a longer interval of case, than this patient has experienced for the last Six years. lie has now omitted the regular use of the magnesia, but on perceiving any unpleasant sensation in the stomach, he returns to it for a week or ten days, and then again leaves It oi. From the Ireceding cases it appears, that the effects of Iaagn-esia taken into the stomach are in many respects different from those produced by the alkalies, in those patients in whom there is a disposition to form a superabundant quantity of uric acid. of Magnesa *n Caluldous Comphat. in With a view to ascertain their comparative effects on healthy urine, when taken under the same circumstances, the following experiments were made. Eperiment l. On Soda. Two drachms of subcarbonate of soda were taken on all empty stomach at nine o'clock in the morning, dissolved in three ounces of water, and immediately afterwards, a large cup of warm tea. In six minutes, about one ounce of urine was voided; irn twenty minutes six ounces more; and after two hours, a similar quantity. The first portion became very turbid, within ten minutes after it had been voided, and deposited a copious sediment o the phosphates, in consequence of the action of the alkali upon the urine. It slightly restored the blue colour to litmus paper reddened with -vinegar: the alkali therefore, was not merely in sufficient quantity to saturate the uncombined acid in the urine, and consequently to throw down the phosphates, but it was in excess, and the urine was voided alkaline. The urine voided after twenty minutes, also deposited a cloud of the phosphates, but the transparency of that voided twvo hours after the alkali had been taken, was not disturbed. Here, therefore, the effect of the alkali upon the urine, was at its maximum, probably in less than a quarter of an hour after it had been taken into the stomach, and in less than two hours, the whole of the alkali had passed off. Experiment 2. On Soda, with excess of Carbonic Acid. The same quantity of soda, dissolved in eight ounces of I 4 Mr. W. BRANDE'S Observations on theFifecis watersvery highly impregnated smith carbonic acid, wvs taken tnder the same circumstances as in the former experiment, and the urine was voided at nearly sinilar 'intervalS The separation of the phosphates -was less distinct, anC Ias, 'apid. In two hours after the urine had been voided, tii ' was a small deposit, composed principally of phosphate of lime; there was also a distinct pellicle on the surface, consisting of the triple phosphate of amnmoinia and mnagnesia. This appearance, produced by the escape of the carbonic acid, which had before retained the amrnoniaco-rnagnesian phosphate in solution, and which now occasions its deposition on the surface, is by no means uncommon, even in the urine of healthy persons: in the present instance, it appears to prove, that carbonic acid passes offfrom the stomach, by the kidnies, for after taking the alkalies in water, very highly impregnated with it, the pellicle is uniformly produced, and is also much more abundant and distinct, than under any other circumstances. In similar experiments with potash, the results were in all cases as similar as could be expected in researches of this nature. Experiment 3. On Magnesia. Magnesia was taken under circumstances similar to those of the soda in the former experiment: in the quantity of half a drachm, it produced no sensible effect upon the urine during the wihole day. When taken in the dose of a drachm, at nine o'clock in the morning, the urine voided at twelve o'clock became slightly turbid : at three o'clock the effect of the magnesia was at its maximum, and a distinct separation of the phosphates took place, partly in the form of a film, which when examined, of Magnesia in Calculous Complaints. was found to be the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and partly in the state of a white powder, consisting almost entirely, of the triple phosphate and phosphate of lime. The effect of large doses of magnesia, in producing a white sediment in the urine, is very commonly known, and has been erroneously attributed to the magnesia, passing off by the kidnies. These experiments, shew that magnesia, even in very large doses, neither produces so rapid an effect upon the urine, nor so copious a separation of the phosphates, as the alkalies; on this its value as a remedy in calculous disorders seems materially to depend. Experixent 4. On Linme. Two ounces of lime water, taken in the morning upon an empty stomach, with a cup of milk and water, produced no effect whatever A pint of lime water, taken at four intervals of an hour each, produced a slight deposition of the phosphates at the end of the fifth hour. The urine voided at the third hour was not at all affected; at the fifth hour, the effect appeared at its height, but was not nearly so distinct as from small doses of soda, notwithstanding the insoluble compounds which lime mightbe expected to form with the acids in the urine. The unpleasant taste of lime water, the quantity in which it requires to be taken, on account of the small proportion of the earth which is held in solution, and the uncertainty of its effect, are circumstances which render it of little use, excepting in some very rare cases, where it has been found to agree particularly well with the stomach. MDcccxY. U 146 Mr. W. BRANDEIS Observations on the Effects The'effect of carbonate of lime upon the urine, was much less distinct than that of lime -water: at times it produced no effect, but when taken in very large doses, a slight de position of the phosphates was produced. These experiments were repeated upon three different individuals, and there was always an uniformity in the results. When the medicines wxere taken some hours after food being received into the stomach, their erficts UpoN the urine were retarded, but not prevented. The effects of many other substances upon the urine were examined into during thisinvestigation, but they varied so' much according to circumstances, that no satisfactory results 'were produced. As it is foun d in the foregoing experiments, that the effectss of soda on the urine are modified by the presence of carbonic acid, the following experiment was made, to ascertain, whteher any seinsible effects are produced by, that acid On healthy Urine.' Twelve ounces of xrater -very highly impr'egnated withcarbonic acid, were taken upon an empty stoiuach at ninec o'clock in the morning. At ten o'clock about eight ounces of urine were voided, which had a natural -appearance, but when compared with urine voided under common circLmstances, was found to contain a superabundant quantity of carbonic acid: this gas was copiously given off when the urine was gently heated, or when it was exposed underthe exhauste* receiver of an air pump. in a patient who had a calculus of large dimensions extracted fro.n the bladder, composed entirely of the phosph tats, and 'vhose stomach did not admit of the uS# of stronL of Magnesia f 'i C ous Complaits. 147 acids, carbonic acid was given in water; it was found peculiarly grate f to the stomach, and upon examining the urine during 3ts is , the phosphat s wer only voided in solution, but when at any fime it was left of, they were voided in, the form of ,1 ite sand-. raom tie Press of TJU BULAMER Co; ClvelanddRow St. rn es's. 