[289] IX. An Observation of a white Liquor resembling Milk, which appeared instead of Serum separated from the Blood after it had stood some time. By Alexander Stuart, M. D. Physician in Ordinary to her Majesty, F. R. S. and of the College of Physicians, London. J O H N W I C K S, Carver, in Bromley-street, about forty Years of Age, had been ill about three Weeks by a Loss of Appetite and Indigestion, and at last a Pain and Distention of his Stomach, with a low Degree of an inflammatory Fever; his Tougue dry, rough, and of a rusty brown Colour in the Middle, with a white soft List on each Side; his Urine very high coloured, with a slimy Pinkcoloured Settlement in great Quantity; Stools very yellow and loose. Eight Ounces of Blood being taken away, instead of Serum nothing appeared above the Coagulum but this white Liquor, resembling Milk, which I poured off to the Quantity of four Ounces, or thereabouts. There was no Smell perceptible at first, but in six Days it began to have the Smell of rotten Eggs: It stood in a Room, where there was a Fire for some Hours of the Day, for three Weeks more, in which time it did not alter its Consistence nor Smell. He [290] He had eat very little for a Week before I first saw him; and only a little of a Calf's Foot stew'd the Night before for Supper, and no Breakfast that Day. He was addicted to drinking of strong Pale. Malt Liquor every Day in his Health. If this be Chyle, it is a Substance very different from Milk, which is apt to turn sour and thick by keeping, and never contracts the putrid Smell of rotten Eggs, as this did. Whether it be not Chyle turn'd putrid, and near to Purulency, by a long Circulation in the Blood-Vessels, but not converted into Blood, through some Defect in the Sanguification, is a Question which I doubt cannot be decided without more Observations and Experience. The Coagulum of the Blood was covered with a sizy Pellicle, about the Thickness of a Shilling. The red Part was of a grumous, tender, incoherent Consistence. Tho' he was much better in a Week's time, I order'd five Ounces of Blood to be taken away, to see what Change had been made, and found the Coagulum cover'd with a sizy Pellicle to the Thickness of. Half a Crown, the red Part of a due Consistence, the Serum clear, without any Chyle. The Urine became clear, and he recovered in about two Weeks after I saw him first. X. An 