An Extract of a Letter, written March 5. 1672 by Dr. Thomas Cornelio,a Neapolitan Philosopher and Physician, to John Dodington Esquire, his Majesties Resident at Venice; concerning some Observations made of persons pretending to be stung by Tarantula's: English'd out of the Italian. SIR NOw the time approaches, that I may send you some Tarantulas. Mean while I shall not omit to impart unto you, what was related to me, a few daies since, by a judicious and unprejudicate person, which is; That being in the Country of Otranto (where those Insects are in great numbers,) there was a man, who thinking himself stung by a Tarantula, shew'd in his neck a small speck, about which in a very short time there arose some pimples full of a serous humour, and that, in a few hours after, that poor man was sorely asflicted with very violent symptoms, as Syncope's, very great agitations, giddines of the head, and vomit; but that without any inclination at all to dance, and without all desire of having any musical instruments, he miserably dyed within two daies. The same person affirm'd to me, that all those that think themselves bitten by Tarantula's, (except such, as for some ends fain themselves to be so,) are for the most part young wanton girles, (whom the Italian writer calls Dolci di sale,) who by some particular indisposition falling into this melancholly madness, perswade themselves according to the vulgar prejudice, to have been stung by a Tarantula. And I remember to have observed in Calabria some women, who seised on by some such accidents were counted to be possess'd with the Divel; it being the common belief in that Province, that the greatest part of the evils, which afflict man-kind, proceeds from evil Spirits. This brings to my mind a terrible evil, which often enough is (4067) is observ'd in Calabria, and is call'd in their language Coccio maligno. It ariseth on the surface of the body, in the form of a small speck, of the bignes of a lupin. It causeth some pain, and if it grow not soon red thereupon, it in a very short time certainly kills. 'Tis the common opinion of those people, that such a distemper befals those only, that have eaten flesh of Animals dead of themselves: which opinion I can from experience affirm to be false. So it frequently falls out, that of many strang effects, we daily meet with, the true cause not being known, such an one is assigned, which is grounded upon some vulgar prejudice. And of this kind I esteem to be the vulgar belief of the cause of that distemper, which appears in those that think themselves stung by Tarantulas. But why should not we rather think, that that distemper is caused by an inward disposition, like that vvhich in some place of Germany is vvont to produce that evil, vvhich they call chorea Sti Viti,St. Vite's dance. But of this I hope I shall soon be able to write my thoughts more fully,vvhich vvill, I think, be sufficien to refute that fable of the Taraentula. 