II. Description of tbe double borned Rhinoceros of Sulnatra By Mr. William Bell, Surgeon in the Service of-the East Irldia Company, at Bencooleri^ CommvgaXcatecl by Szr Joseph BanksS Bart. P. R. S Read January lon 179g. 1 HE animal herein described was shot, with a leaden ball from a musket? about ten miles from Fort Marlborough. I saw it the day after; it was then not in the least putrid, and I put it into the position fi^om which theaccompanying drawing was made. ( See trab. I I . } It was a male, the height at the shoulder was four feet four lnches n at the sacrum nearly the same v from the tip of the nose to the end of the tailb eight feet live inches. From the appearance of its teeth and bones it was but younga and pro bably not near its full size. lnhe shape of the anim-al wasmuch like that of the hog. The general colour was a brownish ash; u-nder the belly between the legs and folXs of the skin, a clir? flesh colour. The head much resembled that of the single horned rhinoceros. The eyes were smalln of a broun colourS the membrana nictitans thick and strong. The skin surrounding the eyes was wrinkled The nostrils were wilde. The upper lip. xYas piointed, and hanging over the under. There were six molaresa or grinders, QN each side of Mr. BELL'S Descriptzon of the4the upper and lower jawS becoming gradually larger backB ward, particularly in the upper. Two teeth in the front of each jaw. The tongue was quite smooth. The ears were small and pointed, lined and edged with short black hair, and situated like those of the single horned rhinoceros. The horrls were black, the larger W'dS placed immediately above the nose, pOintillg uprardsa and was bent a little back X it was about nine inclles lollg. The small horrl was four inches long, of a pyramiclal shapeS f3attened af little, and placed aboare the eyes, rather a little luore forwardS standing in a line witl-z the larger horn, ilnrnediately above it. They were both firmly attached to the skullS nor was there any appearance of ajoint, or lauscles to move them. The necli was thick and short, the skin oll the under side thrown into folds, and these folds again wrinkled. The bodtr was bulky and round, and from the shoulder ran a line, or fold, as itl the sillgle horned rhinoceros, though it was but faintly marked. There were several other folds and wrinkleson the body and legs ; and the whole gave rather the appearance of softness. The legs were thick,:sllortS and remarkably strong; the feet armed with three distinct hoofs of a blackishcolour, which surrounded half the foot, one in front, the others on each side. The soles of the feet were conves, of a light colour, and the cuticle on them not thicker than that on the foot of a rnan who is used to walkinge lshe testicles hardly appeared externallyw Tlle penis was-bellt backward, and opened about eighteen double horned Rhinoceros oJCSumatra.snches below the arlus. At its origin it was as tllick as a man's Ieg, and about two feet and a half long; the bend in it occasions the urine to be discharged backwards. .The glans is very singular: the opening of the urethra is like the mouth of a cuI3 with its brim bending over a little, and is about three quarters of an inch in diameter; the glans here is about half arl inch in diameter, and continues that thickness for an inch and a halfX it is then inserted into another cup like the firstS but three tirnes as large. The glans afterwards gradually be cornes thicker, and at about nine inches froln the opening of the urethra are pIaced two bodies on the upper part of the glans, very like the nipples of a milch cow, and a-s large ; thesew become turgid when the penis is erected. TEle whole of this is contained in the prepuce, and may be considered as glans. From the os pubis arises a strong muscle, wllich soon be comes tendinous. This tendon is continued along the back, or upper part, of the penis S it is flattenedS is about the size of a mans little finger,-and is inserted irlto the upper part of the glans, near the end. The use of this muscle is to straiten the penis On the under side of the penis there are two muscles, antagonists to the above; thetr arise from the os ischium fleshy run alorlg the lower side of the penis, on each side of the corpus spongiosum, alld are inserted fleshy into the lower side of the glans. The action of these muscles will draw in the pellis, and bend it. The male has-two nipples, like the female, sltuated between t;he hind legs, they are about half an inch in length, of a pyramidal form, rounded at the endb 6 Mr. BELL'S Description of the double borned Rhinoceros, Sc.The whole skin of the animal is rough, and covered very thinly with short black hair.The skin was not more than one third of an inch in thickness, at the strongest part; under the belly it was hardly a quarter of an inch; any part of it might be cut through with ease, by a common dissecting knife The animal had not that appearance of armour which is ob served in the single horned rhinoceros. Since I dissected the males I have had an opportunity oiE examining a female, which was more of a lead colour s it was younger than the male, and had not so many folds or wrinklesin its skin, of course it had still less the appearance of armourJ : The only external mak which distinguishes it from the male is the vagina, which is close to the anus, whereas, in the male, the openitlg for the penis is eighteen incJhes below the anusr Tal. II. Represents the entire animal. Tab. III. The cranium. Tab. 101. The upper and under jawn separated from each other. @ l | l,Xi \%; \)4l;"l ,l \SlX 11_: i ZZ>78z. Xrasb MCCXCIlLEv. E>S. 6-cE cD v v 