169 ) VII. On the Orgin and Formation of Roots. In a Letterfrom T. A. Knight, Esq. F. R. S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, K. B. P. RI S. Read February 23, 1809. MY DEAR SIR, IN a former communication I have given an account of some experiments, which induced me to conclude that the buds of trees invariably spring from their alburnum, to which they are always connected by central vessels of greater or less length-, and in, the course of much' subsequent experience, 1 have not found any reason to change the opinion that I have there given.* The object of the present communication is to shew,, that: the roots of trees are always generated by the vessels which pass from the cotyledons of the seed, and from the leaves, through the leaf-stalks and the bark, and that they never, under any circumstances, spring immediately from the alburnum. Trhe organ, which naturalists have called the radicle in the seed, is generally supposed to be analogous to the root of the plant, and to become a perfect root during germination; and I do not know that this opinion has ever been controverted, though I believe that, when closely investigated, it will prove to be founded in error. A root, in all cases with which I am acquainted, elongates only by new parts which are successively added to its apex or * Phil. Trans. 1805. MDCCCIX. Z 170 Mr. KNIGHT on the Origin and Formation of Roots. point, and never like the stem or branch, by the extension of parts previously organized; and I have endeavoured to shew, in a former memoir, that owing to this difference in the mode of the growth of the root and lengthened plumule of germinating seeds, the one must ever be obedient to gravitation, and point towards the centre of the earth, whilst the other must take the opposite direction.* But the radicle of germinating seeds elongates by the extension of parts pre. viously organised, and in a great number of cases, which must be familiar to every person's observation, raises the cotyle. dons out of the mould in which the seed is placed to vegetate. The mode of growth of the radicle is therefore similar to that of the substance which occupies the spaces between the buds near the point of the succulent annual shoot, and totally different from that of the proper root of the plant, which I conceive to come first into existence during the germination of the seed, and to spring from the point of what is called the radicle. At this period, neither the radicle nor cotyledons contain any alburnum; and therefore the first root cannot originate from that substance; but the cortical vessels are then filled with sap, and apparently in full action, and through these the sap appears to descend which gives existence to the true root. When first emitted, the root consists only of a cellular sub. stance, similar to that of the bark of other parts of the future tree, and within this the cortical vessels are subsequently generated in a circle, inclosing within it a small portion of the cellular substance, which forms the pith or medulla of the root. The cortical vessels soon enter on their office of gene* Phil. Trans. i8o6. Mr. KNiGHT on the Origin and Formation of Roots. 171 rating alburnous matter and a transverse section of the root then shews the alburnrum arranged in the form of wedges round the medulla, as it is subsequently deposited on the cen* tral vessels of the succulent annual shoot, and on the surface of the alburnum of the stems and branches of older trees.* If a leaf-stalk be deeply wounded, a cellular substance, similar to that of the bark and young root is protruded from the upper lip of the wound, but never from the lower; and the leaf-stalks of many plants possess the power of emitting roots, which power can not have resided in alburnum, for the leaf-stalk does not contain any; but vessels, similar tothose of the bark and radicle, abound in it, and apparently convey the returning sap; and from these vessels, or perhaps more properly from the fluid they convey, the roots emitted by the leaf-stalk derive their existence.+ If a portion of the bark of a vine, or other tree, which readily emits roots, be taken-off in a circle extending round its stem, so asto intercept entirely the passage of any fluid through the bark; and any body which contains much moisture be applied, numerous roots will soon be emitted into it. immediately above the decorticated space, but never immediately beneath it: and when the alburnum in the decorticated spaces has become lifeless to a considerable depth, buds are usually protruded beneath, but never immediately above it, apparently owing to the obstruction of the ascending sap. The roots, which are emitted in the preceding case, do not appear in any degree to differ from those which descend from the radicles of generating seeds, and both apparently derive* Phil. Trans. for i8oi, Plate 27. t Phil. Trans. for i8oI.Z 92 172 Mr. KNIGHT on the Origin and Formation of Roots. their matter from the fluid which descends through the cortie cal vessels. There are several varieties of the apple tree, the trunks and branches of which are almost covered with rough excres cences, formed by congeries of points which would have become roots under favourable circumstances; and such varieties are always very readily propagated by cuttings. Having thus obtained a considerable number of plants of one of these varieties, the excrescences began to form upon their stems when two years old, and mould being then applied to them in the spring, numerous roots were emitted into it early in the summer. The mould was at the same time raised round, and applied to, the stems of other trees of the same age and variety, and in every respect similar, except that the tops of the latter were cut off a short distance above the lowest excrescence, so that there were no buds or leaves from which sap could descend to generate or feed new roots; and under these circumstances no roots, but numerous buds were emitted, and these buds all sprang from the spaces and points, which under different circumstances had afforded roots. The tops of the trees last mentioned, having been divided into pieces of ten inches long, were planted as cuttings, and roots were by these emitted from the lowest excrescences beneath the soil, and buds from the uppermost of those above it. I had anticipated the result of each of the preceding experimnents; not that I supposed, or now suppose, that roots can be changed into buds, or buds into roots; but I had before proved that the organization of the alburnum. is better calculated to carry the sap it contains, from the root upwards, than in any other direction, and I concluded that the sap when Mr-. KNIGHT on the Orzg in and Formation of Roots. 7j arrived at the top of the cutting through the alburnum would be there employed, as I had observed in many similar cases, in generating Ibuds, and that these buds would be protruded where the bark was young and thin, and consequently afforded little resistance.* I had also proved the bark to be better calculated to carry the sap towards the roots than in the opposite direction, and I thence inferred that as soon as any buds, emitted bay the cuttings, afforded leaves, the sap would be conveyed from these to the lower extremity of the cuttings by the cortical vessels, and be there employed in the formation of roots.? Bothlt tbe alburnum and bark of trees evidently contain their true s>-jv but whether the fluid which ascends in such cases as the preceding through the alburnum to generate buds, be essentially difl-rent from that which descends down the bark to generate roots, it is perhaps impossible to decide. As nal ture, however, appears in the vegetable world to operate by the simplest means; and as the vegetable sap, like the animal blood, is probably filled with particles which are endued with life, were I to offer a conjecture, I am much more disj posed to believe that the same fluid, even by merely acquiring dii'fverent motions, may generate different organs, than that two distinct fluids are employed to form the root, and the bud and leaf. When alburnum is formed in the root, that organ possesses, in common with the stemi and branches, the power of producing buds, and of emitting fibrous roots, and when it is detached from the tree, the buds always spring near its upper end, and the roots near the opposite extremity, as in the* Phil. Trans. for imor. 174 Mr. KNIGHT on the Origin and Formation of Roots. cuttings abovementioned. The alburnum of the root is also similar to that of other parts of the tree, except that it is more porous, probably owing to the presence of abundant moisture during the period in which it is deposited.* And possibly the same cause may retain the wood of the root permanently in the state of alburnum for I have shewn, in a former memoir, that if the mould be taken away, so that the parts of the larger roots, which adjoin the trunk, be exposed to the air, such parts are subsequently found to contain much heart wood.* I would wish the preceding observations to be considered as extending to trees only, and exclusive of the palm tribe; but I believe they are nevertheless generally applicable to perennial herbaceous plants, and that the buds and fibrous roots of these originate from substances which correspond with the alburnurn and bark of trees. It is obvious, that the roots which bulbs emit in the spring, are generated by the sap which descends from the bulb, when that retains its natural position; and such tuberous rooted plants as the potatoe offer rather a seeming than a real obstacle to the hypothesis I am endeavouring to establish. The buds of these are generally formed beneath the soil; but I have shewn, in a former memoir, that the buds on every part of the stem may be made to generate tubers, which are similar to those usually formed beneath the soil; and I have subsequently seen, in, many instances, such emitted by a re-produced bud, without the calix of a blossom, which had failed to produce fruit; but I have never, under any circumstances, been able to obtain tubers from the fibrous roots of the plant. The tube therefore appears to differ little from a branch,* Phil. Trans. for i8ox. Mr. KNIGHT of the Origin and Formation of Roots. 175 which has dilated instead of extending itself, except that it becomes capable of retaining life during a longer period ; and when I have laboured through a whole summer to counteract the natural habits of the plant; a profusion of blossoms has in many instances sprung from the buds of a tuber. The runners also, which, according to the natural habit of the plant, give existence to the tubers beneath the soil, are very similar in organization to the stem of the plant, and readily emit leaves and become converted into perfect stems, in a few days, if the current of ascending sap be diverted into them; and the mode in which the tuber is formed above, and beneath the soil, is precisely the same. And when the sap, which has been deposited at rest during the autumn and winter, is again called into action to feed the buds, which elongate into parts of the stems of the future plants in the spring, fibrous roots are emitted from the bases of these stems, whilst buds are generated at the opposite extremities, as in the cases I have mentioned respecting trees. Many naturalists * have supposed the fibrous roots of all plants to be of annual duration only; and those of bulbous and tuberous rooted plants certainly are so: as in these nature has provided a distinct reservoir for the sap which is to form the first leaves and fibrous roots of the succeeding season; but the organization of trees is very different, and the alburnum and bark of the roots and stems of these are the reservoirs of their sap during the wintert When, however, the fibrous roots of trees are crowded together in a garden-pot, they are often found lifeless in the succeeding spring; but I*M. MI ROB EL'S Trazite d'Anatomie &c. &c. Dr. SMIT'S Introduction to Botany. t Phil. Trans. for ;8og. 176 Mr. KNIGHT on the Origin and Formation of Roots. have not observed the same mortality to occur, in any degree in the roots of trees when growing, under favourable circum. stances, in their natural situation. I am prepared to offer some observations on the causes which direct the roots of plants in search of proper nutrv11ent and which occasion the root of the same plant to assume difg ferent forms under different circumstances;, but I propose to make those observations the subject of a future communication. I am, MY DEAR SIR, with great respect, your much obliged, &c. &c. THOMAS AND. KNIGHT, A'Iton, Dec. zz, Igo8a 