63 z IW. On Oxalic Acid. By Thomas Thomson, M. D. F. R. S. Ed. Communicated by Charles Hatchett, Esq. F. R. S. Read January L4th, i8o8. QXALIC acid, from the united testimony of EHRHART, HERMBBSTADT, and WESTRUMB), appears to have been discovered by SCHEELE; but it is to BERGMAN that we are indebted for the first account of its properties. He published his dissertation on it in 1776, and since that time very little has been added to the facts contained in his valuable treatise. Chemists have chiefly directed their attention to the formation of that acid, and much curious and important information has resulted from the experiments of HERMBSTADT, WESTRUMB, BERTHOLLET, FOURCROY, and VAUQUELIN, &c. but the properties of the acid itself, have been rather neglected. My object in the following pages is not -to give a complete history of the properties of oxalic acid, but merely to state the result of a set of experiments, undertaken with the view of ascertaining different particulars respecting it, which I conceived to be of importance. I. Water of Crystallization. Oxalic acid is usually obtained in transparent prismatic crystals more or less regular; these crystals contain a portion of water, for when moderately heated they effloresce 64 Dr. THOMSON On Oxalic Acid. and lose a part of their weight, which they afterwards recover when left exposed in a moist place. When cautiously heated on a sand bath they fall to powder, and lose about a third of their weight. But as the acid is itself volatile, it is not probable that the whole of this loss is water. To ascertain the quantity of water contained in these crystals I had recourse to the following method. i. Seventy grains of crystallized oxalic acid were dissolved in 6oo grains of water, constituting a solution which weighed 670 grains. Fifty grains of pure carbonate of lime, in the state of calcareous spar, were dissolved in inuriatic acid; this solution was evaporated to dryness to get rid of the excess of acid, and the residue redissolved in water. Into this muriate of lime the solution of oxalic acid was dropt by little and little as long as any precipitate fell, and the oxalate of lime thus formed was separated by the filter. Pure oxalic acid is not capable of precipitating the whole lime from solution of muriate of lime, the muriatic acid evolved being always sufficient to retain the last portions in solution. It was necessary to get rid of this excess of acid; the method which appeared the least exceptionable was to saturate the muriatic acid with ammonia; accordingly when the oxalic acid ceased to occasion any farther precipitate, I cautiously added pure ammonia, till the liquid ceased to produce any effect upon vegetable blues. A copious additional precipitate of oxalate of lime was thus obtained. Oxalic acid was now added again as long as it rendered the liquid muddy. By thus alternately having recourse to the acid solution, and to ammonia, and by adding both with great caution to avoid any excess, I Dr." THOMSON{ on Ozaic Acid. e succeeded in separating the whole of the lime without using any sensible excess'-of oxalic acid.5,58 grains of the acid solution were employed, a quantity which is equivalent. to 58. grains of the crystallized acid. 2. The oxalate of lime, after bi .well washed and drained, and exposed for a week to the open air, at a temperature of about 600, weighed 76 grains; but upon beingIkft on the sand bath for some hours in a temperature between, 2oO and soo', its weight was reduced to 72grains. A. These 72 grains -of dry oalate of lime were put into an open platinum crucible, and gradually heatedto riedness. By these means they were reduced to 49.5 grais, whichproved to be carbonate of lime. The crucible was now exposed to a violent heat in a forge. Nothing remained but a quantity of pure lime weighing -7-grains. 4. From this experiment we learn, that 72 grains of dry oxalate of lime contain 27 grains of lime. Of consequence, the oxalic acid in this compound must be 45 grains. But the weight of crystallized oxalic acid actually used was,58.3 grains, a-quantity which exceeds the whole acid in the oxalate by I. grains. These 1. grains are the amount of the water of crystallization, which either did not unite with the salt, or was driven off by the subsequent exposure to heat. Hence crystal. lized oxalic acid is composed of Real acid 45. Water 13.3 58 . MDCCCVIII. K 66 Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic Acid. Now this is equivalent to Real acid 77 Water 23 100 So that the crystals of oxalic acid contain very nearly the fourth part of their weight of water.* II. Alkaline and Earthy Oxalates. i. The preceding experiment gives us likewise the composition of oxalate of lime. This salt, when merely dried in the open air, still retains a portion of water which may be driven off by artificial heat. It is necessary to know that itparts with this water with considerable difficulty, so that a long exposure on the sand or steam bath, is necessary to get it thoroughly dry. It afterwards imbibes a little -water if it be left in a moist place. Well dried oxalate we have seen is a compound of Acid 45 or per cent, 62.5 acid. Base 27 375 base. 72 100VAU QUEL1 N in a late dissertation on cinchona, marked with that profound skill which characterizes all the productions of this illustrious chemist, has mentioned incidentally, 'that the crystals of oxalic acid contain about half their weight of water; He dissolved loo parts of cinchonate of lime in water, and precipitated by means of oxalic acid; 22 parts of crystallized oxalic acid were necessary; and the oxalate of lime formed weighed 27 grains. From this experiment he draws the conclusion which 1 have stated, (See Ann de Chem. lix.164.) But this ingenious chemist does not seem to have been aware of the, real composition of oxalate of lime. 2.7 grains of that salt are composed very nearly of I o grains of lime and i ' grains of acid. But the weight of the crystals used by VAUQ UELIN was 22; the difference, 5, is obviously the water of crystallization in 22 grains of the crystals. But if zz grains contain 5 of water,, it is obvious, that loo contain very nearly 23. So that his experiment in reality coincides. with mine. Dr. THoMsQN on Oxalic Acid. 67 Though the oxalate of lime dried spontaneously can scarcely be considered -as always in the same state, yet as the difference in the portion of water whkh it retains is not great, provided it be dried slowly in the temperature of 600, and in a dry place, it may be worth while to state its composition. It is as follows: Acid 45 or per cent 59-2 acid. Base 27 5.5 aseWater 4 5.3 water. 76 100.0 When rapidly dried, as by pressing it between the folds, of filtering paper, it is apt to concrete into hard lumps, which retain more moisture. In this state I have sometimes seen it retain io per cent. of water after it appeared dry. BERGMANN states the composition of oxalate of lime as follows: Acid 48 Lime 46 Water 6 100* His method was to dissolve a determinate quantity of cal careous spar in nitric acid, and then to precipitate the lime by oxalic acid. ioo parts of calcareous spar thus dissolved, require, according to him, 8s parts of crystallized acid to precipitate them. But there must have been -some mistake in this experiment; for, according to my trials (provided the nitric acid be carefully neutralized by ammonia Ias it is evolved), no* Opusc. I. 26zK 2 ' 68 Dr. TIoM Non Oxalic Acid. less than 117 grains of oxalic acid would have been required, and at least 1t45 grains of oxalateof lime would have been obtained instead of the t i9, which was the result of BERGMANN'S experiment. It is! obvious that BERGMANN did not precipitate all the lime. He added oxalic acid till it ceased to produce any effect on the solution from the great excess of nitric acid: evolved; and then took it for granted that all the lime was separated. But had he added ammonia, he would have got an additional quantity of oxalate of lime, and the precipitation would have recommenced upon adding more oxalic acid. This explanation accounts in a satisfactory manner for the difference between BERGMANNX S statement of the composition of oxalate of lime, and mine. 2. Though the preceding experiment was made withcare, yet as some of the most -important of the following observations in some measure restupon theanalysis of oxalate of lime, I thought it worth while to verify that analysis in the following manner. loo grains of crystallized oxalic acid were dissolved in iooo grains of water, making a solution which weighed 1 loo grains. It is obvious that every loo grains of the above solution contained 9-og9 grains of crystal of oxalic acid, equivalent, according to the preceeding analysis, to. 7r grains of real acid. 0oo0 grains ,of this solution were gradually mixed with lime water till the liquid ceased to produce any change on vegetable blues-. The oxalate of lime thus formed being well dried, weighed i 1.2 grains. Exposed to a violent heat in a platinum crucible, this salt left 4.2 grains of pure lime. Hence it was composed of Dr. THOM8GN g on Oxalic Acid. 69 7 acidj or per cent. 62.5 acid 4.2 lime 57.5 base 11.2 100.0 Thus we have obtained exactly the same result as in the former experiment, both as far as-relates to the composition of oxalateQf lime, and rlikewise to the proportion of water. of crystallization in crystallized oxalic acid. The lime water necessary to. saturate the acid amounted to 3186 grains. Hence, it contained only 7-jth of its weight of. .~~~~~~~~ T lime. it. The oxalates of barytes and strontian are white, tasteless powders, which may be obtained by mixing oxalate of ammonia with the muriates of these alkaline earths. It is said that these earths are capable of forming soluble superoxal'tes with this acid; but I have not tried the experiment. These oxalates, as well as oxalate of lime,. are partially soluble in the strong acids. 4. Oxalate of magnesia is a soft white powder, bearing a considerable resemblance to oxalate of lime. It is tasteless, and not sensibly soluble in water' ; y-t when oxalate of ammonia, is mixed with sulphate of magnesia, po precipitate falls; but if the solution 'be heated. and concentrated sufficiently, or if it be evaporated to dryness, and redissolved in water, in -both cases the oxalate of magnesiaseparates in the state of an insoluble powder'i` A. Oxalate f 'potash readily crystallizes in flat rhomboids, commonly terminated by dihedral summits. The lateral edges ofthe prism are usually bevelled. The taste of this salt is cooling and bitter. At the 'temperature of 60? it dissolves in thrice its weight of water. When dried on the sand bath, and afterwards 70 Dr. THOMSON OIL Oxalic Acid. exposed in a damp place, it absorbs a little moisture from the atmosphere. This salt combines with an excess of acid, and forms a superoxalate, long known by the name of salt of sorrel. It is very sparingly soluble in water, though more so than tartar. It occurs in commerce in beautiful 4-sided prisms attached to each other. The -acid contained in this salt is very nearly double of what is contained in oxalate of potash. Suppose 1 0o parts of potash 'if the weight of acid necessary to convert this quantity into oxalate be xthen 2 x, will convert it into superoxalate. 6. Oxalate of soda readily crystallizes. Its taste is nearly the same as that of oxalate of potash. When heated, it falls to powder, and loses the whole of its water of crystallization. Soda is said to be capable of combining with an excess of acid, and of forming a superoxalate. I have not tried the experiment. 7. Oxalate of ammonia is the most important of all the .oxalates, being very much employed by chemists todetect the presence of lime, and to separate it from solutions. It crystallizes in long transparent prisms, rhomboidal, and terminated, by dihedral summits. The lateral edges, are often truncated, so as to make the prism 6 or B-sided. Sometimes the original faces of the prism are nearly effaced.. The taste of this salt is bitter and unpleasant, somewhat like that of sal ammoniac. At the temperature of 6o', 1000 grains of water dissolve only 45 grains of this salt. Hence, 1000 grains of saturated solution of oxalate of ammonia contain only 43.2 grains of this salt. The specific gravity of this solution is i.0186. As it may be useful to know the weight Dr. THOMSON on Oxalc Acid. 71 of this salt contained in solutions of different specific gravities, I have thought it worth while to construct the following table: Weight of oxalate Specific grad Weight. of oxalatelSpecific graof ammonia in zoo vity of ammonia in zooivity oo the soparts of the so"uO" lutio.i at 600. parts of the solu-lution at 600. tion.tion. 4.32 1.oi86 1.5 .Q075 35 ; i.oi7o o. . 5 1. o So~~~~.016o 0.1.0 0S0 38 1.0142 0?4 1.00244 2.5 1.0120 0 i.oo008 2. 0.0095 0.2 1.0012 8. To determine the composition of these salts, I took seven different portions of a diluted oxalic acid solution, each weighing 1oo grains, and containing 7 grains of real oxalic acid. To each of these portions I added respectively potash, soda,. ammonia, barytes water, strontian water, and lime water, till it ceased to produce any change. The liquid was then evaporated to dryness, and the residue, after being well dried on the steam bath, was weighed. Each of these salts contained 7 grains of acid; the additional weight I ascribed to the base. Hence I had the following table, which exhibits the weight of each salt obtained, and itscomposition deduced frortthat weight 72 t~~~~ctHO2S~ivON on Ox-i lid. p Dr~~ no~soi~ o~ Oxalic ACid Salts. ~~Weight Cornpos"ition. \ S al t s . obtained. Acid. Base. Oxalate of Ammonia 94 7 Magnesia* 9.5 2.5 So-da 11.0 7 4.0 Lime 11.2 7 4.2 _ Potash 1.6 7 8.6 Strontian 17.6 7 10.6 Barytes 17.0 7 . The composition of these salts reduced to ioo parts, is given in the following table. Oxalate of Ox. of Ox. of Ox. of Ox. of Ox. of Ox of AmmeoiMagSoda. Lime. Potash. StronBarytes. ina. nesia. tian. Acid 74 45 73.68 63.63, 62.50 44.87 39.77 41.16 Bas , 6. -. __, .6 .8. Base 2t5.53 ?6.32 36 37 37.50 55.13 60.23 58.84 Total 100. 100. 100. 100 100 100 100 The oxalate of magnesia was obtained by neutralizing the oxalic acid solution with ammonia, then mixing it with sulphate of magnesia, evaporating the solution to dryness, and washing the insoluble oxalate of magnesia with a sufficient quantity of water. Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic Acid. 73 -But for practical purposes, it is more convenient to consider the acid as a constant quantity. The following table is constructed uponthat; plan. Acid. Base. Weight of Salt. Oxalate of Ammonia 100 34.12 134.12 Magnesia 100 35.71 13571 Soda 100 57.14 157.14 Lime 100 6.oo i6o.oo Potash 1oo 122.86 1222.86 Strrontian 100 151.51 -25 1.41 Barytes 1 142.86 242.86 9. In the preceding statement, no account has been taken of the water of crystallization which might still remain at. tached to .the salts, notwithstanding the heat to xvhichthey were exposed. There is reason to believe, however, that in most of them this water must be so small, that it may be overlooked without any great error. Oxalates of soda and of ammonia, I have reason to believe, lose all their water of crystallization at a moderate heat. This is the case also with oxalates of lime and barytes, and I presume that the oxalates of strontian and magnesia are not exceptions; but oxalate of potash retains its water much more obstinately. I believe that inthat salt the weight of acid and of base are nearly equal, and that when dried in tlhe temperature of 2120, it still retains nearly lo per cent. of water; but I have not been able to establish this opinion by direct experiment. rT he composition of oxalate of strontian in the preceding table, was so different from what I expected, that I repeated MDCCCVIII. L 74 Dr. THOMSON On Oxalic Acid, the experinent; but the result was the same. This induced me to combine strontian and oxalic acid in the following manner: 1oo grains of a solution containing 7 grains of real Oxalic acid were neutralized by ammonia, and the oxalic acid precipitated by means of muriate of strontian. The salt ob-. tained weighed 12.3 grains; of course it was composed of Acid 7 or 56.9 or ico Base 5.3 43.1 75.7 12.3 100.0 1757 Thus it appears that there are two oxalates. of strontian, the first obtained by saturating oxalic acid with strontian water, the second by mixing together oxalate of ammonia and mu-, riate of strontian. It is remarkable that the first contains j ustl double the proportion of base contained in the second. III. Decomposition of the Oxalates. i. When oxalic acid, in the state of crystals, is exposed to heat, it is only partially acted upon, a considerable portion escaping without alteration; but when an alkaline or earthy oxalate is heated, the acid remains fixed till it undergoes complete decomposition. The new substances into which the acid is converted, as far as my experience goes, are always the same, what oxalate soever we employ. They are five in number; namely, water, carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, carbureted hydrogen, and charcoal. an The water is never quite pure. Though no sensible portion of oil can be perceived in it, yet it hias always the peculiar smell of the water obtained during the distillation of wood ; a smell which is usually ascribed to oil. It commonly Dr. TihoMsoN o0 -O abc Acid. 7 Shews traces of the presence of ammonia, changing vegetable blues to green, and smoking when brought near mnuriatic acid ; but this minute portion of ammonia is probably only accidentally present. All the oxalates -which I decomposedby distill, lation, were obtained by double decomposition from oxalate of ,ammonia; and though they were washed with sufficient care, yet I think it not unlikely that a minute portion of oxalate of ammonia might continue to adhere. Practical chemists know the extreme difficulty of removing every trace of a salt witl which'another has been mixed The carbonic acid remains -partly combined with the base, which always becomes a carbonate, and partly makes its escape in the form of gas. The carbonic oxide and carbureted hydrogen make their escape in the form of gas: the charcoal remains in the retort mixed with the base, to which it communicates a grey colour: the quantity of it depends in some measure upon the heat. If the oxalate was exposed to a very violent heat, no charcoal at all remains. Hence it probably acts upon the carbonic acid united to the base, converting it into carbonic oxide, as happens -when a mixture of a carbonate and charcoal are heated. 3. I was induced to examine this decomposition with coniderable attention because I conceived that it would furnish the means of estimating the composition of oxalic acid; and I pitched upon oxalate of lim-e as the salt best adapted for the purpose I had in view. A determinate quantity of this salt was put into a small retort, and gradually heated to redness. This retort was connected with a pneumatic trough by means of a long glass tube, having a valve at its extremity which allowed gas to issue out, bDlt prevented any water fron I DAr. THoMSON oa OXalic 4Cid. entering the tube. The experiment was repeated three times. -4. A hundred grains of oxalate of lime, when thus heated, yield above sixty cubic inches of a gas, which is always a mixture of carbonic acid and inflammable air, nearly in the proportion of one part of the former to three and a half of the latter, reckoning by bulk. The specific gravity of the inflam. mable gas was o.9o8, common air being i.ooo; it burns with a blue flame, and when mixed with oxygen, may be kindled by the electric spark. The loudness of the report depends upon the proportion of oxygen. The smallest quantity of oxygen, with which it can be, mixed, so as to burn by the electric spark, is i -9th;the come bustion is very feeble, and is attended with no perceptible report. If the residue be washed in lime water and mixed with ie9th of its bulk of oxygen, it may be kindled a second time: this: may be repeated five times, after which the residue cannot be made to burn. The combustion becomes more violent, and the report louder, as we increase the proportion of oxygen, and both are greatest when the oxygen is double the bulk of the gas. As we increase the dose of oxygen, the combustion becomes more and more feeble; and five parts of oxygen and one of gas is the limit of combustion on this side: for a mixture of six parts of oxygen and one of the inflammable air will not burn. In" these experiments the results differ materially from each other, when the proportion of oxygen used is small and when it is greats. I am not able at present to account for this difTerended which holds not only with respect to this gas, but Thr, THOmSoN o (OXai Acid. 77 every compound inflammable gas which I have examined. This difference makes it impossible to use both extremes of the series: I make choice of that in which the proportion of oxygen is considerable, as upon the whole more satisfactory. The best proportion is one part of the gas and two parts of oxygen. The oxygen ought iot to be pure, but diluted with at least the third of its bulk -of azote, unless the gas be much contam-inated with common air. I have elsewhere detailed the method which I follow in analyzing gases of this nature.* The following table exhibits the mean of a, considerable number of trials of this gas with oxygen-. Measures of Measures of -Carbonic Acid Diminution of infiammable Air Oxygen con% fformed. Bulk. consumed. sumed. T-009T9 98 _ ._W._ 1. 9 __ __ that is to say, 1oo cubic inches of the gas when burnt, coml bine with 91 cubic inches of oxygen there are produced 93 inchesof carbonic acid; and after the combustion these 93inches alone remain, the rest being condensed. Hence we conclude that the other substance prodluced xwas water. This result corresponds almost exactly with, what would have been obtained, if we had made the same experiment upon aw mixture of 70 measures of carbonic oxide, and So measures of carbureted hydrogen, as will appear from the following table.* See NxcuoL8oN>' Journal, i6. 247, 78 Dr. THoMsON 0 OXici Acid. Measures of Measures of Measures of Diminution inflamnrable Gas Oxygen concarbonic Acid of coisumed. sumed. formed. Bulk. ~~ .. -Carbonic oxide 70 31.5 63 38.5 Carbureted hydrogen S 3 6o.o so 6o.o | Total 1oo 1. | 93 ; 98.5 This coincidence is so exact, that I do not hesitate to conclude that the inflammable gas which was thesubjectof experti ment, was in reality a mixture of 70 parts of carbonic oxide, anad 30 of carbureted hydrogen. The specific gravity indeed, which was .q908, does not exactly agree with the specific gravity of such a mixture for 2A measures of carbonic oxide, .and one -measure of carbureted hydrogen, ought toform a mixture of the specific gravity 0.849, provided the specific gravity of carbonic oxide be 0.956, and that of carbureted hydrogen 0.6oo; but this objection cannot be admitted to be of much weight, till the specific gravity of pure carbureted hydrogen be ascertained with more accuracy than has hitherto been done,< -The results contained in the preceding table, enable us to determine the composition of this inflammable air with considerable precision for ioo cubicinches of it require 91 inches of oxygen, and form 93 cubic inches of carbonic acid. But it is known that carbonic acid gas requires for its formation a quantity of oxygen gas equal to its own bulk: therefore to form 93 inches of it, 93 inches of oxygen gas must have been em-. ployed; but only 91 were mixed with the gas: therefore the Dr. THo-imsON on Oxalic Acid. 79 gas itself must have furnished a quantity of oxygen, equiva lent to the bulk of two cubic inches, besides all the carbon contained in Finches of carbonic acid. This carbon amounts in weight to 12.09 grains. Two cubic inches of oxygen weigh .68 Total 12.77 But as ioocubic inches of the gas. weigh 28.15 grains, it 's obvious that besides the 12.77 grains -which it furnished to the carbonic acid, it must have contained-15.38 grains of addi'-. tional matter;d but as the only two products were carbonic acid and water; itis plain that the whole of this additional matter must, by the explosion, have been converted into water Its constituents of course must have been 13.19 oxygen 2.19 hydrogen 15.38Adding this to the I 2.77 grains formerly obtained, we' get the composition of the gas as follows: Oxygen 13.87 Carbon 12-.09 Hydrogenr' 2.19 28.1~k which reduced to coo parts, becomes Oxygen 49.27 Carbon 42.95 Hydrogen 7.78 100.00, 0 D-r TufomsoN on Oxalic Acid. :The residue which remained int he retort, after the disc tillation wvas over, was a grey powder, not unlike pounded clay slate. To ascertain its constituents, it was dissolved in diluted nitric acid with the necessary precautions; the loss of weight indicatedthe quantity of carbonic acid. The charcoal remaining undissolved, was allowed to subside, carefully washed by repeated affusions of water, and then dried in a glass or porcelain capsule. It must not be separated by the filter, for it adheres so obstinately that it cannot be taken off the paper, nor weighed. The nitric acid solution was precipitated by carbonate of soda, and the carbonate of lime ob-. tamed was violently heated in a platinum crucible. What remained was pure lime. 6. I shall now detail one of my experiments more particularly. Eighty-nine grains of well dried oxalate of lime were exposed in a small retort to a heat gradually raised to redness; the products were the following: Grains. 45.6 cubic inches of gas* weighing 14.8 Water 6.4 Residue in retort 62.4 83.6 Loss 5.4 Total 89.0 The loss is obviously owing to the gas which filled the retort and tube when the experiment was concluded. We are a The gas obtained measured 6o cubic inches, but 14.4 inches of these were found to be common air which had previously filled the retort and tube; this quantity was therefore deducted. Dr. TomsoN On OXalic Acid. S warranted therefore to add it to the weight of the gaseous products obtained. NTow the gas was composed of Carbonic acid 10. 5 cubic inches, 4.9 grains. Inflammable air-35 i -= so that one-third of the weight was carbonic acid, and twothirds inflammable air. If we divide the 54 grains of loss, in that proportion we obtain 1.8 grains carbonic acid, and 3.6 grains of inflammable air. Adding these quantities to the weight obtained, we get for the weight of the whole gaseous product Grains. Carbonic acid 6.7 Inflammable air. .5 20.2 The 62.4 grains of residue in the retort were composed of Grains. Lime 33.4 Carbonic acid 264 Charcoal' 2.6 62.4 Now it is clear, that the 89 grains of oxalate of lime were composed of Lime 33.4k Acid _ 89.0. The acid was completely decomposed and resolved tin the following products: MDCCCVLII. M 8ti Dr. PiHOMON on OXlic Acid. Carbonic acid 53.i Inflammable air 13.5 Water 6.44 Charcoal g.6 H-Had the experiment been made upon ioo grains of oxalic acid instead of 5.6, it is clear that the proportions would have been as follows. Carbonic acid 59.53 Inflammable air 24.28 Water 11.51 Charcoal 4.68 100.00 The most remarkable circumstance attending the decomposition of oxalic acid by heat, is the great proportion of carbonic acid formed; the quantity amounts to 6-ioths of the whole weight of acid decomposed. As the composition of all these products of oxalic acid is known with considerable accuracy, it is obvious that they furnish us with the means of ascertaining the constituents of that acid itself. 59.53 grains of carbonic acid are composed of Grains. Oxygen 42.86 Carbon 16.67 59.53 24. 8 gtrains of inflammable air, according to the analysis given in a preceding part of this paper, are co mposed of Dr. TxoMsQNo on OXdaivc 4ci-. 8$ Grains. Oxygen :1.96" Carbon 10.43, Hydrogen 1.89; 24.28 i I ,5i grains of water are composed of Oxygen 9.87 Hydrogen L.6+ As for the charcoal, though it probably contains both oxygen and hydrogen as well as carbon, yet as the proportion of the two first ingredients is probably very small, and as we have no means of estimating them, we moust at present rest satisfied with considering it as composed of pure carbon. When these different elements are Collected under their proper heads, we obtain i. Oxygen in carbonic acd42.86 -: inflammable air 11.96: _ water 9.87 64.69. 2.. Carbon in carbonic acid 6.67 b inflammable air 1o.4$ _ charcoal 4.68 Hydrogen in inflammable air is -water 1.64 3~53, M 2. Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic Acid. Hence oxalic acid is composed of oxygen 64.69 -carbon 31.78 _ -hydrogen 3.53 3.53 100.00 7 The result of two other experiments on oxalate of lime was very nearly the same as the preceding. The following may be stated in round numbers as the mean of the whole. Oxalic acid is a compound of Oxygen 64 Carbon 32 Hydrogen 4 100 8. The only other analysis of oxalic acid with which I am acquainted has been given by M. FOURcROY, as the result of his own experiments, in conjunction with those of VAUQUELIN%* it is as follows: Oxygen 77 Carbon 13 Hydrogen io 100 It gave me considerable uneasiness to observe, that my experiments led to conclusions irreconcileable with those of chemists of such eminence and consummate skill, and it was not without considerable hesitation, that I ventured to place any reliance upon them. 1 am persuaded, however, that some mistake has inadvertently insinuated itself into their calculations; since the carbonic acid alone, formed during the distillation of* Systeme de Connois Cbem. VII. 224., Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic A*id. 85 oxalate of lime, contains considerably more carbon than the, whole quantity which they assign to the oxalic acid decomposed. M. FOURCROY informs us, that oxalic acid is converted into carbonic acid and water, when acted upon by hot nitric acid; and this decomposition seems to have been the method employed, to ascertain the proportion of bthe co-nstiuents of oxalic acid; but the numbers assigned by him do inot correl spond with this statement. For 1o parts of hydrogen require 6o of -oxygen to convert them into water, and :13 Sof carbon require at least 33 of oxygen. So that instead of 77 parts of oxygen, there would have been required no less than 98 to convert the hydrogen and carbon into water and carbonic acid. It is true, that the surplus of oxygen may be conceived to be furnished by the nitric acid but if this be admitted (and I have no doubt from experience, that the nitric acid actually does communicate oxygen), it is difficult to see how the constituents of oxalic acid could be determined by any such decomposition, unless the quantity of oxygen furnished by the nitric acid were accurately ascertained. IV. Conmposition of Oxalic Acid. The knowledge of the relative weights of tlhe elemnets which compose oxalic acid, though of importance, is not suffix cient to convey a clear idea of this compound, and in what respect it differs from tartaric acid, alcohol, sugar, and various other bodies possessing very different properties, though come posed of the very same elements in different proportions. It has been ascertained, by numerous and decisive experiments, that elementary bodies always enter into combinations in. determinate proportions, which may be represented by 86 Dr. THOMsoN onf Qzarc Acid. numbers. For etxamle, the numbers-which correspond to the four elemeents, oxygen, azote carbon and hy4rogen are the following: .O xyen. Azote. Carbon 4.5 Hydrogen I NoW, in all compounds consisting of these ingredents, the proportion of the different constituents may always be repre. sented by these numbers, or by multiples of them thus thle composition of the following substances may be thus stated. Oxygen. Hydrogen. Carbon. Azote, N ater 6 + 1 Carbonic oxide 6 + 4-45 Carbonic acid 2 x 6 + 4.5 Carbureted hydrogn 2 x 1 + 415 Olefiant gas _ . + 4,$ Nitrous gas _ 6 _ _ _ _ +5 Nitric acid 26 -x _ 4+ Nitrous oxide _6 + 2 X,From the knowledge of this curious law, it is difficult to avoid concluding that each of these ele ments consist of atoms of determinate weight, which combine according to certain fixed -proportions, and that the numbers above given, repre_. ent the relative-weights of these atoms respectively. Thus; an atom of oxygen weighs six anm atom of hydrogen one, &C. Wateris composed of one atom of -oxygen, and one atom .of hydrogen carbonic acid of two atoms of oxygen, and one of carbon, &c. Thiscuriou s theory, w oise to throw @ Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic 4cid. 7 an unexpected light on -the obscurest parts of chemistry, belongs to Mr. DALTON. I have elsewhere illustrated it at considerable length.* The same law holds with respect to the salts. The acid and bases always combine in determinate proportions. We may affix numbers to all the acids and bases, which numbers, or their multiples, will represent all the combinations into which these bodies enter. Some of these numbers are given in the following table: Sulphuric acid B3arytes 67 Muriatic acid 18 Soda my Carbonic acid 16.5 Lime 23 Nitric acid A7 Ammonia 6 These numbers may be conceived -to represent the relative weights of an integrant particle of each of these substances; formed on the supposition that an atotn of hydrogen weiglsti It follows equally from -this law, that the acids and bases coinbine particle with particle, or a certain determincate: number of particles of the one with a particle of the other. One of the most important points in the investigation of compound bodies, is to ascertain the number which denotes the weight of an integrant particle of each of them, that of an atom of hydrogen being i; because this number, or a multiple of it, represents the weight of each, which enters into all combinations; and because it enables us to estimate tle number of elementary atos ofwhichmeachis comped. From a careful comparison of the table of oxalates, given inma preceding part of this paper, with the weight of the different bases already* See System of Chemistry, ti. 4Z+4, &-c. 3d Edition. Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic Acid. determinedjy it appears that the weight of an integrant par; tide of oxalic acid must be represented by the number 89.5 Now, what number of atoms of oxygene, carbon, and hydrous gen, go to constitute an integrant particle of oxalic acid ? We have assigned the relative weights of each of these atoms and we have ascertained the relative proportions of the respective elements of oxalic acid. From these data it is easy to solve the problem. An integrant particle of oxalic acid consists of 9 atoms combined together, namely, 4 atoms of oxygen' 3 of carbon, and two of hydrogen. 4 atoms of oxygen weigh 4 x 6 I4 3 atoms of carbon 3 x 4.5 13.5 2 atoms of hydrogen 2 x 1 = 2 Total 39.5 which together mnake up the weight of an integrant particle of oxalic acid. According to these proportions, too parts of oxalic acid is composed of Oxygen 6i Carbon 34 Hydrogen 5 100 numbers which do not indeed exactly correspond with the! result of the preceding analysis, but which approach suffib. ciently near it to give the reasoning employed considerable probability at least, if it does not lead to certainty.a For these weights, and the method of determining them, I refer the reader to my System of Chemistry, 3d Edition, III. 6I9. The numbers which I have there assign. ed are, I am persuaded, rather too low. Dr. THOMSON onf Oxalic A-.4cid. 89 We; may now exa minel the decomposition which taikes place whenoxalate of lime is exposed to heat. Let an atom of oxygen be zvw an atom of carbon c, and an atom of hydrogen h. Ani integrant particle of oxalic acid may be represented by 4 zv + 3 c + Pf h. We may represent the composition and weight of an integrant particle of each of the substances into -which oxalic acid is decomposed by heat, bv the following symbols and numbers: Carbonic acid 2 w + c weight i6.5 Carbureted hydrogen c + 2 h 6.5 Carbonic oxide w + c I o.5 Water w +h A 7 Charcoal c 4.5 We may now conceive 3 particles of oxalic acid to be decomposed at once, and to resolve themselves into these substances, in the following proportions 4 particles of carbonic acid = 8 w + 4c 2 particles of carbureted hydrogen 2 c + 4 h 2 particles of carbonic oxide = 2 W + 2 c 2 particles of water = 2w + 2Jh 1 particle of charcoal c Total 12 W + 9c + 6h 3 particles of oxalic acid 1 W + 9C + 6h We see that such a decomposition is possible. It remains only therefore to see whether the weights of these substances which result from this hypothesis, correspond with the pre." ceding analysis. Now, MDCCCVIITI N Dr. THOMSON n Oxalic Acid. 4particles of carbonic acid weigh 4 x 16.5 = 66 2 carbureted hydrogen 2 x 6. = 13 e9 carbonic acid 2 X 10.5 _ 21 2 water 2X 7 14 charcoal 4.5 = 4.5 Total. 118., Reducing these proportions to 0o0 parts of acid, and joining together the two inflammable gases, the numbers come out as follows: Carbonic acid 55.70 we actually obtained 59 53 Inflammable air 28.69 24.28 Water 1 .81 11.51 Charcoal 3.80 4.68 100.00 100.00 It is impossible to expect exact correspondence between the theory and hypothesis, till the numbers representing the weights of the elementary atoms be ascertained, with more rigid accuracy than has hitherto been done. I satisfied myself with taking the nearest round numbers, which are sufficient at least to show an evident approximation to the proportions obtained by experiment. V. Composition of Sugar, and Formation of Oxalic Acid. When a compound body is decomposed, and resolved into a number of -new substances, the products are almost always simpler, or consist of integrant particles, composed of fewer atoms than the integrant particles of the original body. Thus, though oxalic acid is composed of 9 atoms, none of the proDr. THoMSON Ofl Oxaxic Acid. 91 ducts evolved, when that acid is decomposed by heat, contain more than 3 atoms. Hence it is probable that sugar is a more compound body than oxalic acid, because nitric acid resolves it into a variety of new compounds, one of which is oxalic acid. It may be vorth while to examine the action of nitric acid on sugar, and the formation of oxalic acid, more closely than has hitherto been done, as the investigation will furnish some data for estimating the composition of sugar. Two hundred grains of pure crystallized sugar being treated with diluted nitric acid in the usual way, yielded 200 cubic inches of carbonic acid, 64 cubic inches of nitrous gas, and 7o cubic inches of azotic gas. But these numbers, though the result of a good many experiments, are not to be considered as very exact. The uncertainty depends upon the pro.. perty which the solution has of producing more gas after the sugar is decomposed, at the expence of the oxalic acid formed. Now, it is difficult to stop at the precise point. The whole weight of oxalic acid, which can be obtained from 20o grains of sugar, amounts to 1 i6 grains. If the experiment be properly conducted, the whole of the sugar is decomposed, or at least the quantity of residuary matter is small. From the preceding statement, there is reason to conclude that ioo grains of sugar, when decomposed by nitric acid, yield, Grains. 1. Oxalic acid crystals 58 grains, or real acid 45 2. Carbonic acid ioo cubic inches, equivalent to 46.5 while these are evolved obviously by the decomposition of the nitric acid. N2 92 Dr. THOMSON on Oxalic Acidl. Grairns. 1. Azotic gas 35 cubic inches equivalent to 10.62 2. Nitrous gas 32 cubic inches equivalent to 10.85 Now, as nitric acid contains no carbon, it is obvious that the oxalic acid formed, and the carbonic acid evolved, must contain the whole carbon contained in ioo grains of sugar. Grains. 45 grains of oxalic acid contain of carbon 14.40 46.5 grains of carbonic acid contain of ditto 13.02 Total 27.42 therefore loo grains of sugar contain 27grains of carbon. The azotic gas and nitrous gas must have been originally in the state of nitric acid, and must have given out oxygen when they were evolved. But nitric acid is composed of Oxygen. Azote 1o.62 + 25 Nitrous gas 10.85 + 45 29.5 Therefore they must have parted with 29.5 grains of oxygen. We are at liberty to suppose that the whole of this oxygenwent to the formation of carbonic acid. Now, 46.5 grains of carbonic acid are composed of Grains. Oxygen 38.5 Carbon 13.0 46.5 From this it appears, that in the carbonic acid there were 4 grains of oxygen more than was furnished by the nitric acid. I confess I am disposed to ascribe this surplus to errors. Dr. THOMSON 0o Oxaizc Acid. 93 in the experiments, and to believe that the whole of the oxyru gen of the carbonic acid was furnished by the nitric acid. This being admitted, it follows that the carbon of the carbonic acid, and the whole constituents in the oxalic acid, were furnished. by the sugar. These are as follows Grains. Carbon 27.5, Oxygen in 45 grains oxalic acid 28.8 Hydrogen in ditto 1.8 58.J. If this total be subtracted from the ioo grains of sugar used, there will be a remainder of 41.9 grains. As this quantity of the sugar has disappeared, and is no where to be found among the products, we must suppose that it has assumed the form of water. Now 41.9 grains of water are composed of Oxygen 35.9 Hydrogen 6 41.9 Addingthese quantities to the preceding products, we obtains the composition of sugar, as follows: Oxygen 64.7 Carbon 27.5 Hydrogen 7.8100.0l Though the process of reasoning, which led to this analysis of sugar, is too hypothetical to be trusted implicitly, yet I am persuaded that it is to a certain degree correct, and that the result obtained does not deviate very far from the truth. l If 94 Dr. Tro~soN Ofld Oxalic Acid. we compare LAVOISIER'S statement of the composition of sugar obtained in a diffbrentl manner, though by a mode of rcason ing. not less hypothetical, we shall be surprised at its near coincidence with mine. His numbers are Oxygen 64 Carbon 28 Hydrogen 8 100~ It is true that two different hypotheses may lead to the same result, and yet be both wrong; but this becomes infinitely improbable in the present case, when we consider that the proportion of carbon, which I assign to sugar, must at all even-ts be nearly correct. We have no direct method of determining the weight of an integrant particle of sugar; but if the accuracy of the preceding analysis be admitted, it furnishes us with an; indirect one, which cannot be rejected; for it is clear, that the atoms of oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen, will be to each other respectively, as the numbers -4 , G ; and these numbers 64 reduced to their lowest terms be-come 5, 3, 4, nearly, which being primes with respect to each other, must represent thenumber of atoms, of which an integrant particle of sugar is composed. Sugar then is a compound of 12 atoms; namely, five of oxygen, three of carbon, and four of hydrogen; the weight of an integrant particle of it is 47.5, and its symbol is tv + 3 c + 4 h. It diffiers from oxalic acid merely in containing an additional atom of oxygen and two of hydrogen. If we had any method of removing these substances, without altering the proportion of the other constituents, we should Dr. THOMSON Ofl Oxalic Acid. 95 obtain a much greater quantity of oxalic acid from sugar than we can at present; but nitric acid acts by removing one-half of the carbon in the form of carbonic acid; the sugar deprived of this, resolves itself into oxalic acid and water. Suppose two particles of sugar actedon at once, the symbol for them will be lo w + 6 c + 8 h. Let three atoms of the carbon be removed by the action of the nitric acid, there will remain low + 3c + 8h. Now A particle of oxalic acid 4W + 3 c + 2 h Six particles of water = 6 w+ 6h low + 3c + 8h which is' j tst the quantity of oxalic acid left. This will give us some idea of the way in which the formation of oxalic acid by nitric acid is accomplished. And although the series of changes is probably more complicated, yet they are ultimately equivalent to the preceding statement. I allude to the formation of malic acid, which: is said to precede the oxalic acid, and afterwards to be converted into it by the subsequent action of nitric acid; but on the composition and formation of this latter acid, I avoid making any observations at present, as I propose to nmake them the subject of a separate dissertation, 