[272] IX. Extract of a Letter from Dr. Josephus Laurentius Bruni, of Turin, F. R. S. to Mr. Henry Baker, F.R.S. concerning the Bologna Bottles. Dated at Turin, Nov. 22/11 1744. Dear Friend, THE Seed of the Gramen tremulum*, which you favoured me with, has amazed all here who have seen it. The curious People in this Country talk much of a Phaenomenon, which is called of the Bologna Bottle, because it was first discover'd at Bologna. If you let these Bottles-fall perpendicularly from some Height upon a BrickFloor, they will not be broken; but if you drop into them some little hard Bodies, they will burst in Pieces. I will give you an Account of what I try'd myself about them. Read Jan. 31. 1744-5. I took one of these glass Bottles, whose Form resembles a Florence Flask, and whose Capacity is about three Quarters of a Pint, and let it fall down from the Height of five Feet and half upon a Floor of Brick, and it was not broken: I then let fall down into it, from the Mouth to the Bottom internally, a Piece of Flint-Stone, weighing 11 Grains; and immediately the Bottle burst into many Pieces. I took one of those Pieces, weighing a Dram, and let it fall in the same manner into another Bottle, which I moved circularly for a Minute; and then putting * See these Transactions, No. 457. [273] <inferred>putting</inferred> it upon a Table, in about a Quarter of an Hour it broke in Pieces. Into a third Bottle I dropped a Piece of Whetstone, weighing 40 Grains; and in some few Minutes the Bottle was broken. I filled another Bottle half-full of Water, and let fall into it a small Piece of Flint stone; and after four Hours it burst. I let fall into three other Bottles a Piece of Wood weighing 50 Grains, a Piece of Brass weighing 300 Grains, and a Ball of Lead weighing 140 Grains; and neither of them was broken. These Bottles are thicker at the Bottom than the Neck. The Glass-Maker blows them, and lets them cool, without putting them again into the Oven. And, from the Experiments, I take notice, that what is capable of breaking them ought to have some Roughness: And I am told that a Grain of RiverSand will break them. The first Opportunity I shall send you two or more of these Bottles; and am, &c. X. 