: $o9 2 XVI. Obser7>ations on the Stntostberes of Zenus and the Mooza, tbeir restective Densities, perpendicular Heights, and the Twiligbt occasioned by them. By John Jerome Schroeter, Esq. Of Lilienthal, in the Dutchy of Bremell. Translatedfrom the Germalle Read May 24, o79t. On tbe Atmosphere of Venus. ALTHOUGH the evidence afforded us by the most recent observations and discoveries, llot only of the existence, but also of the various and singular properties of tbe atlnospheres of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the Moorl) be in a manner incontl^overtible; yet so inconclusive are the few observations hitherto made on the atmosphere of Venus, that several of the greatest astrollomersX have lately thought themselves authorized to doubt its very existence. The followxng inquiry may hence prove the more acceptable to those ho favour the investigations of nature, not only as it evinces, in my opinionX the existence of such an atmosphere, but also as it points out several irwfererlces concerning its nature and properties, svhi£h to me appear new and interesting What corlvitlced me, twelve years ago, when I first bega to observe V-enus svith a good three-feet achromatic telescopes * See Sstrono?wie de M. DE LA LANDE, §. Z272. MDCCXCIX, SS Mr. SCHROETER'S Observationsothat it actually has an atmospllere of no small extenty was the striking diminutxol1 of ]ight svhich I noticed on the planet in its various phases from its exterior litnb towards the interior edge of its illumillated surface, and especially near the latter: and this appearance it was whicll induced me to make farther olsel+vatioIls on tlae sub}ect, especially as I found that the phnOlePlOxl recurred as often as I looked at the planet witll an [ERSCHELLEAN four and seven-feet reflectorn arlued with tlle l<gller mag;nifying powers. The great number of observations I harre now made on this object, for a series of years) being upon the whole very sitnilar in their nature and resllltse it would no doubt be not only te dious, but also superiltlous, to describe them here at length: but the following general remarlis it may be necessary to premise, in order to obviate all luisapprehensioll, and the false conclusivris that might be deduced from hasty atld inaccurate observations In fig. . Tab. VI. wllich I have annexed for the sake of greater perspicuity the light appears strong;est at the outward limb a b, c, from whence it decreases gradually, and in a regular progession towards the itlterior edge or tertninatory and this not only towards its midcile d, e, btlt also near the -two cusps t g, h i, the light becoming so dim irnmediately at this border g, f, sl, e b) i, that it commonly loses itself itl a .fhint bluish grey>:foruling a very indefinite ragged margin, scarce; discernible svith the best telescopes, andwhich, in se veral of the phases, resembles the interior utleven border ofthe lnoon, as it appears to the llaked eye, or to a pover magnifying from 1 to 4 tinles. The following circumstances must necessarily be attended to respecting these observations. oti the Attnostbere oJ? Menus.311t. This diminution of lighe naturally shews itself betsveen the greater eastern and vestern elongations alad the inferior conjunction, wllen Venus appears about half full, or falcated but still of suSicient breadtla. 2. But this dimintltion is not equally sensible in all the phases of the planet, but sonzetilmes much more so than at others. These appearances depend greatly on the clearness of our atluosphere, on tlle telescope giving a very distirlct, soft, mellow image, and on the eye being properly-prepared for such observations. 3. Whell, in the Inore falcated phases, we wish to obsersre distinctly and accurately this diminution of light at the farther extremit-ies of the cusps, it is necessary to advert that, whilst about the middle ofthe terlminating border between d, e, here the luminous part has its greatest breadthg this diminution, if seen under favourable circumstarlces, is too perceptible to leave tlle least doubt or suspicion, the points of the cusps, especially when the vveather axld other collateral circumstances are not favourable, appear, indeed, somewhat fainterfi but yet almost as bright as the outward limb near b. As the diminution of light, whether the cause proceed from its own 1lature, or from that of the atmospheres must be in the salne proportion at the cusps as at the llliddle of the tertninator, I could not but be puzzled at this appearance; but the multitude of observations I have since made on the pointsof-the cusps, sornetimes when tlley svere tolerablys lbright, and at others when they appeared as faint as the other parts of tlle said border at length cleared up my ctoubts, and led me to the true cause of this variable appearance, wllich, to prevent similar perplexities in others, I shall here state at lengthe Ss 2 Mr. SCHROETESS QSers-ationsConsiderillg thek izm;tnense; heiglit : of the mountains, alld the great inequalities ot1 the surface of Venustg it is natural to Sllppose that as at the tinaesf of its greatest elotlgations, one cusp frequently appears poirlted and the ;other blullt, owingt to the shadow of sorne mountain darkening tlle extremity of the latter,-the same appearallce may often take place ill the falcatedphaseof the planet. But tlle cllsp wlo,e extremity > co:vered by as slz-adow will, ill tllis case, so far from appearing blunta always exhibit a pointed appearance; it being in that aspect too sharp for us to distinguish acturately its true forrx. Should, for instance, thetpoint of the cusp os n y, fig. 2, be immersed in a shadow fromf rto , this pointX ill such a case though it luay be-somez^that blunted from aG to >, will llever theless appear sharp, because its w-hole breadtla does oftell not exceed 4 of a second, whence its true foran must needs escape our observation.t W; do nc)t, in this instance, see thevery faintly illuminated point cs rlor yet the real lulminous edge y ,0>-but only its promineIlt and brighter part os >; a deception this, which cannot take place in the other parts of the termi nator, where indeed :X-the satnecauses, viz. the shadows of mountains %7ill no doubt, at titnes occasion an uneven, ragged appearance, but cannot rtlaterially affect the very faint light of thDe whole. It is, moreover evident, that even when the extretnities of the cusps are, asfin fig. 1, not darkened by shadows, the fiint luminous pointsfg, fb iy are not always visible, but can only . . * The perpendicular height of these mountains3 as I have already shewn in a former work, is in proportion to the diameter of the planet, at least as great as the heigllt of t'ne tnountains ;n the moon, in proportion to its much s-horter diameter; this fact X have-had fFequent oppsrturlitiesXto asw-rtain. See Selenotop. Fragm. 5. 5z2, on the SAtnostbere ff Fenus.b-e seen vith certainty at sucll -times vv7llen the air is very clear and calm, ar<d a good telescope with a large aperture, and high luagnifyIng powerX is used-in the observation. / Alld it follows that, except 1lnder those circumstances, the parts-:of the cusps afR C b, lnLlst, on account of their great sharpness, be tlle apparelat alld sufficientlyX luminous extretnities ; sitlce, according to weIl ktlown principles, the exterior points a, and c will have as much-light as the pOillt k,-near the middle of the crescent. \ ;; : But in a clear and ca11n atmosphere, and with a high magnifying power, it is truly pleasing to see, af-ter the eye is accustomed to it, how the whole of the termillating border, e^7en to the farther extremities of tlue cusps, vanishes gradual]y, and becomes at last so faint, that ill theX day; time, and here there are any inequalities, it insensibly loses itself in the colour of the sky. Such striking diminutions of light have I seen repeatedly Wittl my four-feet reflector, with a power magnifying 280 times, and my seven-feet reflector,with a gyo lmagnifyillg power ; and particularly on tlle 20th of November, 791, when with a power of 161, I sawt the light of the terminator dwindle away, and appearing, for a breadth of about s or 12 seconds,= aImost as grey as the ash-coloured spots on the moon. 'rhose who are at all Xacquainted with the tlleory of light, need hardly be retninded that on an illuminated spl:lerical surface of a planet, the light will ever appear fainter tonvards its border, in proportion as the angle between the incidellt ray from the sun and the said surface lvecomes smaller.$ t It m2y equally be superflllous to illustrate how, since the sun appears on the planet 07enus under a diameter of about 4+', its luminous border must have a no inxnsiderable penumbra It appears, however, Eom calculation, that this whole peMr. SCHROETER sObservtionsSl4;: But what here claims our particular notice) is tlle singular circumstance that, except in the planet Mercury, concerning which I have not yet a sufficient numberk of-observatios a similar diminution of light is not observed in so sensil)le a degree on any of the other planets of our solar system, our earth only excepted. RMars, Jupiterg and Saturn, cannot, illdeed, on account oftheir great distance, exhibit on our globe the variable phases of a half, or stnaller portion, of an illuminated hemisphere, whence no fair arguments can be derived from those instances: but the comparative appearances of the moorl, in this respect, will-be thought the more sirlgular if carefully attended to, the narginal diminution of light on this satellite, which, however, Iike Venus, is a sphere illuminated by -the sun, notbeing nearly so perceptible and evident, as that above described. Of this we may fully--persuade ourselves, by comparing the appearalaces of the terminating borders of the moon in its falcated phases or quadratures, with tlle sa<ne borders on Venus at the same periodical aspects. Should this striking difference not be reconcileable upon our established optical Uprinciples, nothing will remain but the analogy, tl-at, as the density of our atmosphere checks the sun-beams the more, the longer they proceed thereill in a direction which after the rise or before the setting of the sun, carries them over a certain track of land; arsd as such a track, on which the SUll at its rising and numbra, which, according to the greatest apparent diameter of Venus, extends from 59 to 60", measures in the direction perpendicular to the llne of the cusps only o,36", or T of a second of a degree; and that where this penllmbra is observable in its exterior darker parts, its breadth is not above IIo 0f a secon(l, whence it cannot be visible throughollt. on tbe Atmosphere of Venus.setting shilles from the horizon, is but feebly illuminated; SQ also is Venus circumstanced with regard ta the ligllt it receives from t}le stln. To colupare with some accuracy the illt-ensity of light at the terminatillg borders on our earth, relatively to its full perpendicular illunzinatiotl, witln tlne same phaenomenon oll Vetlus, may-, fc3r srant of opportunities to observe both plane¢s at once from a proper distance, as may be dolle with regard to Venus and the moon, not l)e very feasible ; but this, I think, I tnay vith great confidence itlfer from lny long series of observatiolls, that Venus has an atmosphere in some respects sitnilar to that of our earth, and which must far exceed that of the naoon irl its dellsity, or power to weaken the rays of the sun. \ # Thus far had I proceeded in my observations, when the heavens favoured tne with the following ones, which may prove the more interestingn as they not otlly confrm those hitherto made, but aIso lead to sotne farther inferences concernSing the atmosphe-re of Vewnus. Among all the favotlrable circumstances for observing tlle phnet Venus, rwone could be more so than those I had in the ulonths of March aXnd April, but especially from the gth to the 16th of March, 179s, when, besides the almost constant and unusual serenity of the sky, the planet, which was then in Aries, at 7t and S°-N. declination, was so high above the horizon, that,notwithstanding its approaching inferior conjunction on the 18th or March, at 4 P. 1M. I could still view it on the z6th, and should certainly have observed it during the conjunction, had not the weather become hazy on the 17th. Under these very fortunate circumstances, I fell accidentally (not havingn after terl years of coxlstant attention to Venus, Mr. SCHROETER'S Observationsoeerlable to devise any new rnode of observing) on the 9ths zoth, 11th, and 12th of March, :up-on an obseraration, which I repeatedly confirmedg and which, on account of its singu]arity, and the light it will probabiy throw on the physical constitution of this planer, svill certainly be ever thought important; especially as itmay not in matly years be repeated under so favourable a combination of incidents. > On the gth of March, 1790, immediately after sun-set, atld till 6h:4S', I saw Venus with a beven-feet reflector, inagnifying 74,9S, and 161 times, rery distinctly, and uncotnmonly splendi:d5. The southern cusp did not appear precisely of its usual cirfcular form, but rather asvis represented at a, fig. , inflected in the shape of a hook beyond the lutninous semicircle into the dark hemisphere ofthe planet. This, howearer, after my former observations,* utas Dnot new to me: but a far more striking phxnomenon, :which I Dhad never seen :before, excited my 0admiration, and particular attention. The northern cusp was terminated at b, irl the same narrow taperillg manner as the southern, but did not extend in its bright luminous state xnto the dark hemisphere.From its point, however, tlle light of which, though gradually fading, was yet of sufficient bright ness, a streak of glitnmering blussh: light proceeded }nto the dark 1lemisphere,-fronl b to c, which though intermittent as to intensity, was yet permanellt as to duratiotl, and although very faillt, could yet be plainly seetl with both the abovementioned magnifying powers.Like the luminous line then seen on Saturn, its light seemed to twinkle in ;various detached points, and appeared throughout not only very fiint, when colalpared with the light at the point of the cusp, but also of : See Selesi Fragm. §. 523. on the Atmosphere of VenusJs::18a very peculiar kind of fiintness, verging tosvards a pale greyish hue. The limb of the planet at this small part of its dark moietys appeared with as faint a light, and, compared with the estremity of the southern cusp, as pale as the dark limb of the noon three days before and after the nenv moonX when it is faintly illuminated by the reflected rays from the earth: and it appea3red to laleX tha$ towards the farther extremity C-3 uhere it was actually inflected, according to the circular limb of the dark hemisphere, its light vanished into a pale bluish tint, in the same nzaxlner as the more vivid light of the 1t1-minous hemisphere dsvindles away towards the terminatillg border alld the extremities of tTle cusps. The sd fig. represents this striking phnornenon only in its projection, it being impossible to give a ju-st representation of it in a dravingz Surprised at this new and singular appearallce, I pointed it QUT to Mr. TISCHBEIN, arl ingenious artist, who was then with me ellgraving the plates for my Selenotopographic Fragments and desired him to attend particularly to all its circumstances. He found alad described the whole-just as I llad seetl it. I made the drawing, Sig. :3, under his eye; and we viewed the obJect together very attentifirely for about an how, svhell the planet desce-nded too low to be distinctly seen. ; The apparent diameter of Venus was, by means of the projecting table, and the mean of several observations, all of which agreed to svithin lt', found to measure 59"; but the greatest breadth of the ill-uminated part did not exceed 2,6". -On the follosvillg elrening, the air being as calm and serene as the preceditlg one, I observed the planet from 6h to 6h 40'9 but on account of some necessary alterations in the apparatus MDGCXGIIS T t $18.118. Sc HRORT E R S Observtionsof the seven-feet reflectol a I could: use otlly the follr-feet 1n_ strutnent, with powers luagnifying g4 alld 70 titnes. The southern cusp had its lurninous prolongation, but rlot quite so distinct as the precedirlg Llight; bta;t what was ¢lore remarkable, each cusp, btlt chiefly the northertl orle, had nosr tnost evldently a faint taperirlg prolongation, of a bluish grey caste svhich, gradually fadirlg, extended along the dark hernispheres so that the ltlmincous part of the lilub was consielerably lnore than a semicirc,l. 0tz the 1lext taight, beilzg the 1 jth of March, when tle senren-feet reflector was agairl fit for use,I found Venus beSere sun-set, vith a power magrlifying 95 times. At six o'clocky I savv distinctly the southern point terminating io a lurninous streak; w-hic-h 11OW, AS ill tlAt evening of t1Xe gthy was lolager and tlarrower thatl the bright terminatiota of the northerlo cusp. rRhe apparent diameter of Vetlus rneasured 60"; but the greatest breadth of the illu:ninated part could not be ascert-aitled on accovI^lt of sotne undulations in the air, occasioned by rising vapours: tlle ligllt, lloweYer) sparkled througl this tretnulous; medium, sirnilar to the flash in a silver furrsace, and compari-ng svhat I could dist-inguish >?ith th-e table of pro3ectiolls,-this breadth I found could not well exceed 2/'. I also saw most distinctly the faint blllisla luminous st;reak, sellsit?ly extending in an inflected direction beyond the bright selnicircle, and continued observing it till 6hgo'/, when) on account of the descent of the planet, I ceased my observationt The powers I used magnified 945 ancl 74 -times. Nodoubt can hence be entertained of the reality of this nerrlorable phnomenon ; but for reasons which I: shallgive hereafter, I was very solicitos to be able to measure the pro on tbe Atr^ostbere oJS Frenlls.9Jection of this glitulmerillg strip of pale ligllt, and to ascertain wllether sn fact it only belongs to the nortlaern cusp. The very next or the fourth eveniag, gave me a favourabIe <3pportunity for this pllrpose, and this was the luore fortutate, as, c)n accotlnt of the hazy weather that irnmediatelfit succeeded, of the increased teZilight into urhich the planet advanced, and of its decreasing declinatiola, this was the last evening in which such an-observatioll could be made with some plecision. At six o'clock) the attnosphere being ancom-monly clear, I looked at Ventls wYith the seven-feet reflectorp magnifying 95 and 74 time-s. It appeared very distinct and I ascertained, beyolad the possibility of doubt, tlzat the southerll -cusp proJected somewhat illtO the dark hemispllere, alld that from the point of the northern one, the very faint llarrosv streak of pale bluisll ligllt, intermittent in intensity on account of its faintness, but yet permanent as to duration5 extended several degrees along the limb of the dark hetnisphere of the planet. I strained all my vistlal povwJers) but could actually see this appearance orlly at the northern point. As the planet descended towards the horizon, the light of tlue very sharp southern, as well as that of the bright part of the llorthera point began to glimmer M ith gradual (liluinutionn tlze xlatter luore fairltly than the former; but not the least appear ance of a pale 131uish prolongation could be traced at the southern cusp. I had ilumediate recourse t-o the projection lzlaclline) and though I found it very diicult to measure, with the greatest accuracy, the very f-aint light at the northerla, as ell as the bright prolongation at the solltherla cusp, I succeeded how er7er, to ascerta;tl Tt 2 S¢rs SCHROETERX LOb$erUaTZoSs3201. That the iitlt streak at the northern cusp, as represerltedt in its proJection, fig g. extended at least 8't of a degree along the limb of tlle dark llemisphere. 2. That the ?rolotlgation Hof-the southern cusp measured likewise full 8s' its inflected hooked form appearing now very distinctly-: and . aThat the apparent diameter of Venus subtended an arlgle of betveen Gs ad 60t'.¢ Had it not been for these very fiavourable observations from the gth to the <2th of March, r7g0 wllich evillced, beyond a possibility of doubt, that the illuminated limb of aJenus actually exceeds the semicircle, I should, perhaps) never have arrivedat the importVant costnological discovery lt led to; the days precedil1g them beilag too hazy,: and z those following-, though somewllat clearer; yet too near the inferior conJunction of the plallet to admit of fair: observations. On the 17tlln and on the w8th when the conjullction took place at + P. M. the sky was cloudy. From the lst to the 2Stll, as also on the 30th of March, the lst, yth, 8th, and 2wst of April, the mornings about five ovolock were indeed sufficiently clear and it may easily be alnagined, that, consideriilg the importance of the discovery, E did not fail to avail myself of them; but the llorthern declination of the planet had now decreased too much, allct oll the other hand, the twilight in our latitude was become too great to see distinctly and with certainty what I had obser+7es1 before I had no doubt? at times, of the prolongation of either cusp into the dark hemisphere; but circumstanced as the objects were, I was much upon my guard against visual deceptiorls My journal, however? supplies me with the following apv pearances . on tbe--3fmosphere of Venus321a. Marcll 2gdg Sh lof, 4days after the conjunction, a faillt light appeared, at times, playing along the dark limb from the southern cusp. The arc appeared hooked and irregular. 2. March the 24th, Sh. I saw the exterior limb of the ilIuninated part maIlifestly much more convex at a, fig. 4. than at b. I alsQ actually saw, at preserlt, neay d, a grey, fainty twinkling light, proceeding from the southern cusp in an in-flected direction. Something of a similar appearance was like wise seen at the northern cusp c; but this was still fainter, anct somewhat les.s-inHected. The bright extremitiesof the cusps were vely sharp, and silmilar in point of illUlllinatiOn g.March 2$th, Sh 15'. The bright hooked prolongations; extendirlg from both cuspsX vsTere llotSso perceptible as otl the preceding days; but I svas now the tnore struck on seelng, under the present circumstances, lnanifest traces of the same faint ash-coloured inflected streaks extending inta the dark 11etnisphere, which I had beheld on the J.tt-: of March, alad vhich rlow proceeded from the-extremities of both cusps, but rnore perceptibly so from the southernv See fig. ^G. 4. March ^goth, 11 2 days after the conjunction. I novv sawt no more of these appearances tllan I had done on the gth and the preceding days of this month particularly the gd and Sth hen nothing of this phnomenon could be perceived7 As these observations, made after the conj:unction,: fully confirm those from the gth to the th of March, I shall now proceed to state tile inferences that appear to me evidently tC)5 result from them. As there can nowr remain no doubt of the appearance of the pale asll-coloured streak of light b, c, fig. . extending along the limb of the-dark hetnisphere of Venus; and as this plaIlet Mr. SCHROSTER'S Obsertations322cannot be said, like the lnoon, to receive some light upon its dark side from our eartll, or atly other heaven]y body, it follows that this light naust either proceed immediately from the sun, which, as I have frequently observed concerning the high mountairus Leibnitz and Doerfel in the moon, $ throwes its rays directly on tlle tops of very lofty ridges of znourltains; or else that it is a light hich partly illuminates the atluosphere of Venus, and partly, being reflected ly this atmosphere, marks out by a faint glimrner the limb of the dark hemisphere of tlle planet, in the same manner as our mortling arld evening twilight acts upon ours. All our present observations militate against the supposition of this phnol:nenotl being the effect of light imluediately proceeding from the sun; for o. This light does not appear, as on the mountains Leibnitz and Doerfel in the moon) in single, detachecl, and distant points; but as a contitlued streak of light proceeding from the extremities of the cusps, and continuing along the limb of the dark hemisphere to a dist-ance of about 8", or, in proportion to tlle -apparent diameter of the planet, no less t}lan 4So 19t of its circumference. This light also9 compared with the bright part of the phase) is not unlike the comparatively pale limb of the dark part of the nzoon before and after its conjunction. 2. Were this the light of the illumitlated summits of a chain of mountains, it would not appear so even, regularly conected, and $pheri-cal, as we behold ito Bllt what relnoves all manner of doubt is, g The very d-ifferent, extremely faint, bltlish ash-coloured appearance of this glimmering light, which forms as great a Q * See Selen. Frag. § 75. and Tab, IV. fig. 6 and 8. otn the Atonost!.vere opy FensW323tontrast witll the svhitish more vivid light which ibs seen immediately otl-the cusps as the ash-coloured light reflected fronl our earth ola the dark li]nbof the moon does, strhen compared with the solar light ort its phase. lthis pale light in the dark heanisphere, it tnust be owned, faded away towards its termination,< in the same manner as the solar light did at the edge of tlae bright phase :but had this faint streak, like the luore vivid light) been atl immediate elnanatiotl from the sun, the gradual dilminution ould have beerl throughout progressive in a cotltinued proportioll; anndl tlle light in the dark part, immediately CQtltigUOUS to the pointsof the cusps, must have had llearly the sarne degree of brightness as the points themselsres, whicll mZas by no means tlle case. Every circumstance, ther-efore seenls to evince that this ph3enomenon is occasioned by a liVght reflected by the atmosl3here o-f Venus into the dark hemisphere of the planet, being in some measure the light of the attmosphere itselfX wilen illuluinated by the tays of the sun, or,in fact, a real tw7ilight. But this svill appear stiI1 more xllanifest *vhell 4. We compare, according to the abovenaentioned observatiOllS, the alternate relative appearances of tlle cusps of Venus reciprocally with each other. On the Dth and 12tll of March, 179OS svhen the southern cvlsp exteIlded, not itlthe true spherical ctlrve of the limb of the planet, but in a somewhat hooked directionX into the dark hemisphere, t1]e pale bluisl ash-coloured streak appeared only at tlne point of the northern cUSp5 from whence it proceeded ill a true spherical curve, alog the darlk-litnb of the plarlet. Ors tEle oth of Match, on tlae otCher handoj when the southern; cusp did 1lot penetrate so far into the dark hernisphere, the pale streak was perceived at both MrO SCHROETER)S tVl>.¢ervation-spoints, though somewllat lnore sensibly at the northern than at the southern; and such also were the appeararlces a-fter the inferior conjunction. These appearances vvill be thus explained by the eSects of a tu?ilight. The bright prolongation of the southern cusp, as it svas seen on the loth and l2th of Alarch,5 a, fig;. St lnust be ascribed to the solar light illuminating a high ridge of mourltairas situated at this regioll, whetlce it appears vvthy this prolorlgatioll might not be strictly spherical. The twilight that must have existed at this part, would naturally be eclipsed by the much greater brightness of the light immediately derived from the sun, in the same manner as, on our earth, mountairls that face the risitlg or settxng sun, are known to darken the twilighe that ought faintly to illuminate the regions situated immediately behind them. Were this not the case, there is no doubt but that a true spherical arch of the limb of the dark hemisphere would have appeared faintly illuminated: and such did sve see was the eSect of this twilight produced at both cusps when the bright prolongation saras not considerable, the appearance being most decisive at that cusp where there was least of this prolongatione Should this pale streak of bluisll ash-coloured light actually be the effiect of a twilight, it will not only profire the existellce of an atmosphere, but we shall also, froln the length of the streak, as measured orl the 12th of Marchs 7go, be able to draw some lnferences concernillg its density, and real extent on the surface of the planet Accor(ling to that observation, the apparent diameter of the planet measured 60", and the visible stretch of the twilight,, as far as it could be seen witll a power of 9SX applied to a on the Stmosphere of Venuseseven-feet reflector, was estimated at 8", or eight of those parts of wElich 60 go to tlle diameter. This gives a circumference of <8S,43and the degree will be equal to 0n52 of these parts; and takillg those 8" as a chord, the arc, b c, fig. , over which the twilighe extends, xvill measure lS°w:l9'; tllis beillg the portion of a great circle over which, in circumstances -as favourable as those I was favoured with, the twilight will be seen extending over the darli Ilemisphere of-the planet. This, and no more, is what I meant to express in one of my letters in whicll I mentioned the plltnomeilon in general, without any accurate computation, or particular induction. Btlt this pale luminous arc, b c, -fig. 3, as it appears on the plallet, not when it is at its greatest elongation, when we see half its illuminated surface, but at a titne when it is approachfing very near to its inEerivr conjuncticon, is in fact only the appa-retlt, but by llo meaxls tlle real extent of the twilight, in a per pendicular direction east and west from the circle terluinating the dark and illumizlated hemispheres. :This real distance Inust evidently fall xlluch short of the length of the abovementioned arc. The followirlg fis the ulethod I have adopted to deduce the real extent of the twilight of Venus7 froln the apparent orle $ seen at the points of the cusps. . . Let Sg fig. 6, represent the sun, A D C B F the orbit of Venus, and T the place of the earth relatively to every:aspect of Venus in its orbit. B will then lJe the point of inferior conjunction, C of the greatest western elongation, D of the superior cotljunction, A of the greatest eastern elongation, ancl F near]y the point, not far distant from the inferior conjunctions MDGCXCIIo U U 32e6Mr. SCHROETER s Obserscltionsat which I observed the planet on the o2th of March, 1y92-> when I measured the extent of its twilight. Let also A B G C fig. 7, be the hemisphere of the pla net, turned towards our earth T, and A F D E C the other hemisphere turned tqwards the slln SX at the time of an inferior conjunctioIl. And let A C represent the terminating surface perpendicular to the plane A F D E C G B extending from the centre of the sun through that of the planet Vellus, and the eye of the observer on our earth. Af c C will then be the mutual edge of the two hemispheres, and the whole of the dark one A B G C will be directetl towards the eye of the observer at T. But whenever Venus, before or after an inferior conjunction, comes into such a position, relatively svith the sun and our earth, as to be illtlminated by the former in the direction b E , fig. 7, which position on the 20th of March, 179Q must have been nearly at F fig. 6; then will F g c G, fig. 7, be the mutllal terminatillg surface of the dark and light hemispheres of the luminous circumference; of which surface,, hosvever, only one half, c G, can be seen ftom the earth; the other half, F g c, lyil1g in the hemlsphere that is turned away from the eye: c vvZill be the point of the cusp seen from T. This being premised, let the twilight of Venus be so considerable as to extend, ill a gradually-fading progression from the luminous terminating border F g c G, to -the line h f k i, which let us assume as the real border of the twilight. Therl will a part of it, K f, terluinating at g in the direction a g, parallel to b E c, the central ray from the sun, be seen projecting into the dark hemisphere of the planet, and this prolongation, as it was seen orl the 12th of March, z790, will be the appa e3n the Stmosphere of geZtus.327rent extent of the ts^rilight; but its true extent will only be the distan¢efg measured ill degrees of a great circle. And it is sufficiently evident, that the stmaller we assume the angle D C EX before or after an illferior co7tliullction, the more pointed of course will be its equal angle A c Fg and hence also the longer the visible patt of the twilightfc. It is likewise matlifest, that wllen the elongationof the planet is equal to the allgle D c C, the line D c k B will represent the termirlating surface of tlle dark and light hemispheres, whence the planet will, at its greatest elongation, be illuminated by the sun in the direction C c, and the true extent of the twilight will coincide with the apparent one on tlae terminating plane A c. In order theNn to calclllate in anyX except the greatest, elola gation, the arofg, in -the right-angled spherical trianglef cgg or to -ascertain the true exterlt of the tsvilight in degrees of a great circle, it will be requisite to measure from Ts the apparent prolongatiotl of the tsvilight into the dark hemisphere i c, and the apparent diameter of the planet. With these data it follows that, as the anglefg c is a right angle, the anglef G g ri A c F _ D s E may be found by calculation, and the are fg be -thence easily deduced. But the anglefc g D c E is equal to the complement of the angle S F T, fig. 6, on the planet, to t80°, orF S T + S TS, as is plainly illustrated by fig. o, Tab. VII. Let S be the sun, T our earth, c the centre of Venus; draw g c G perpendicular to -S c K and A c G perlrendicular to T c: then is A c the projection of the visible terminating planeas seen from T, and Gg the projection o f the luminous border. S c T is the angle on the planetv K c B its cotupletnent to180°, and K c 13 = -C c G s Ua.s 8Mr. SCHROETER'S ObservationsFor EcG-NcS° X r . l | . 9 O EcC =AcK And hence CcGcKcB. To find, therefore, the angle S c T, calculate for the a 2th of March, y9o, at six o'clock in the evening. The true heliocentric lotzg. of Rlenus s 18° 371 4G/, Long. of tlle earth , 22 21 20 Difference g 4g 4Z HeIiocentric lat. of Venus S 23 o Log. sin. 3° 4S' 4St' L 9>999°795 + Log. cos. g 23 o = L.gggg2424 Tota1 cos. C S 1t = 9,998g219 L.s° 2'0 Now in order to find the angle S c l-, according to thl$ heliocelltric distance of Venus from the earth, we have ila the triangle S c Tg the angle at Sy alad tile two sides C S and T S, being the distances of Venus and our earth froln the sull. VVe theIl find the log. c S = 48tS70ges and the log. T S+997yt8 and the angle at S being t° 2'; the sutn of the twto allgles will be = 174° ^G8/ the half of their sum_ 87° e9{ and then the computatioll will be as follows: on the Atmohere of VenlesLog. T S Log. cS4997758 = 4857O22I-og tang. 10gl40736 belongs to ,At 7! 30'l Sub4ract 4^5 go 7, g0, Log. tang. 9° 7' 30f' = gcgo5803 Log. tang. 87° 29' -11g57018 Log. tang. semid. loSS628gt Half tlle diSerence of the alagles = Half the sum74° 4tt S'8Angle Sc T -162° lOt 5/t Angle c rlt S .12 47 45 . . Now the angle at Venus being = 162° 1o' 15". Its completnent wtill be = o7° 49' 45". But tlais is-the angle C c G = f cg, fig. 7, Tab. VI. and hencewe farther derive the sille --of the aref g = sin .f c x sin.f c g ; wlaence Log. sint 15° 19' o" = )42X8t66 -F Le3g. sin. a:7 +9 S --9448t59y623 Log. sin.fg X = 8,go784gS4 svhich givesfg = 4° 38' go". Such, therefore, is the length of tlle arc of a great circle of Vellus over which its twilight extends, as deduced frotn its appearance to the inhabitants of our globe under the most favourable circumstarlces: axld if the true selui-diameter of the Mr. SCHROETER'S Observationsoplanet be assumed = 834 geographical miles, then will the exterst ovf the tsvilight, in t}le perpendicular direction froln the terlminating border, amount tzo 67 of those miles: and this ex tent of twilight on Venus, which appears to us to measure 4° 38'2, may, with great propriety, be compared ssith what LAMBERT calls the common twilight on our globeg whell its border passes immediately through the zenith, at a time whell he estimates the place of the sun at 6° 23'> below our llorizon.@ This computation aSords also the following conclusion : according to the measurement of the r2th of March, 1790, the projection of the twilight, orf c, fig. 7, amounted in its whole length to 8't; hence sin. v c x sin. 7° 49' 44G", gives for the true extent of the twilightfc only 2,4r5 secorlds of a degree; and hence it appears, o. Why this twilight appears only at the points of the cusps and not at other parts of the terminating border, its extenty with its proportiorlably faint light, being too small; and this narrow faint light being, moreover, eclipsed by the superior brightness of the luminous hemisphere. . \NThy this tsvilight is distinctly seen only a few days before alld after the i-nferior conjutlction ; the visible light of the luluinous hemisphere being then only 2" of a degree in breadth, and only the faint, declining, less luminous part of it apparent to the eJe; whereas the projection of t-he twilight p , fig. 7, will in this position be most extensive, a-tld he-nce the more porceptible. g. But shollld Venus at this time not be in the sign Aries, IROZ at so high a declination as whell I sav it in March, 17902 2 LAMBERTES PHOtOm. §. 998, sqq. Berl, Ephem. for 1776. on the Sfinosphere qf Venlls.s-o that th-e slln do not risararld set much earlier alad later than the plarlet¢; and ssnould ak the sarrle time, our own crepuscular light be very great; should the planetv I says when the sun is solne degrees belout our 11orizon, have no great altitude, it will then be either not seen at all, or only appear in our strong twilight at or near the horizon. -As, even besides all these favourable circanstarlces, it is moreover requisite that the atl7losphere be uncommonly clear, it cannot be thougllt extraordinary that this very instructive phaenomenoll, on which I never reflect witlaout particular satisfaction, should not have been seen by me sooner in the long and uninterrupted series of observations I have male, but lt M ill rather be allowed to hasre been a most fortunate combination of incidents whicl enablecl me to observe it for four days successively. It will al-so appear, 4. Why this phe2:zomenoxl did not shew itself again after the conjunction wTith the same degree of splendour it did b-efore; the northern declination of the planet being therl daiily decreasing, and the length and brightness of our twilight as gradually increasing. This will also point out the reason why it may not be seen again for some time. The fact, however, being now known to exist, there is no doubt but that some traces of it may, and I flatter myself will, be perceived, even under other perhaps less favourable circumstances. This discovery, lastly, throws also some liglat on the constitution of tile atmosphere of Rrerlus, and the physical co st-ruction of that planet. It appears, from the abovementioned observatiotls that however faint the last perceptible degree of evaneiscent light be in this phnomenon, we do not however, evten wSith the Mr. SCHROETER S Observations2keenest eyesight, aided by t}ze very best telescopes, distingllish the final termination of the twilig,ht, but can oaly ascert;ain the border sYhere its most luminous part:begirls to fade. If it be then Inathernatically detuonstrated that this rrlore luluillotls part, which may in sonae respects be Lcompared to our OW11 twili-ght, does actually, a fevvt possible but trivial errors in the neasurenlent excepted extelld 40 38' So" itltO the dark hemisphere, there CAll be no doubt but that this twillght does, ila its whole extent, approach nearly to the extent of ours, which has beell estinzated at 180; and that there is hence a material similarity between the two. TIlis may be inferred fron the uncommon brighttless of the -solar light on this planet, and the cotuparatively very bright appearance of the more luminous meastlred part of its twilight, which also accounts forour seeingthis morelllminouspart so distinctly everl in the midst of our own twilight, alld perhaps points out why even the pale bluish-grey light which in this, as wbell as in other proper phases, is seen to terminate the luminous part, forming an evanescent margin of 1 or w seconds, lnay afford some indication of a tsvilight gradually blended with the luminous terminating border. W}len this twilight was measured on the o2th of NZarch, 1790, soon after six P. Nf. about twenty-six minutes after sun-set, the sun was at rnost -only 4° below our horizon, and the angle c T S fig. lo Tab. VIIX cotlld according to the above calculations, not rneasure above 2 47' 4S"* Hence it appears thatn under such circumsfances, the evanescent margin at the termitiatiorl of the brighter visible part of tlle tsvilight of Venuss was at least as lurnillc)us as our osvn crepuscilarf atmospllere at that point of the heavens. And it on the Stnsosphere of VenusO333wlll also be easily perceived,-utith respect to the much stronger solar light on Ventas, that if those last layers of its atmosphere, on whicln eveil the least vestige of the solar light can be traced, be transferred in idea into the atmosphere of otlr earths adulitting a similar density, but a less power of solar libht they would certainly exllibit no such perceptible tracesO ASld if it be probable, to a degree of evidence, that the twilight on Venus is nearly equal in its extent to that on our globe; if it be lriathematically proved that its brighr;er part which has so lnuch lighe as to enable us not ollly to see its lvut even to measure it across our fainter twilight, illuminates a zone +° g8' sQ't in breadth, we may hence surely infer the density and perpendicular height of at least the inferior more colldensed part of the atmosphere, svhich is capable of reflecting such a crepuscular light; and apply those prinGiples according to which the height of our own atmosphere, in as far, rlamely, as its lower strata are able to reflect the solar rays, and occasiotl a twilight, has been estimated at 34s85 toises, or nearly nine geographical miles. Let a k b e f 1, fig. 9, Tab. VII. be the surface of Venus ; k b es an arc of it, which, according to tlle above calculation of the extent of the brightest twilight on the planet, is assumed at 4° 38-' So"; b d, the heigllt of that denser part of the atmosphere which acttlally occasions the twilight that is visible to us; and h d, the first ray of the surl, at this time 4° 38' go" below the horizon, which is reflected by the highest stratum of the denser atmosphere d, upon the point e on the surface of the planet. NVe thetl have, in the triangle d e C3 the side c e, or the senlicliameter of Venus-834 geogr. miless the right angle e, alld the atlgle c = 2° 19' 15", or half the angle b¢DGCXCI Io X X Mr. SCHFOETER'S Ohserrations384of the twilight. Alad -the side d c being to e c asdrad. is to the cosin. of the angle c, subtract from this -b c/, th semidiameter of Venus, aid the renzainderg d b, will be the height of the atmosphere. Notg taking 8g4 geogr. miles 3178874 toises for the senzidiameter, we have Log g1 78874 = L. 6,3022632 Log cosa 2t e19' 15 L. ,9996+S6 Iog . d c = L. 6,,go26Ig6 _ z8o4oc:> -b c-3o78874 db= 2oS26 Hence it appears tleat the perl?eadicular height of the inS ferior and more dense part of the atmosphere of Venus, svhich has the power of reflecting the solar light to stlch a degree, as, under favourable circumstances, to be visible on our globeg where, svith a good telescope, it assumes the appearance of a faint ash-colouredrlight, measu+es 2526 toisesa or lSSS Paris feet. As we are not acquainted with the laws of the inflection of light at the atmosphere of Venus, and are as rnuch irl the dark, concerrling tllat as well as our own tuJilight, whetller it be procluced by a simple or compound reflectiv}, this computations it must be owned, is somewhat conjectural, and at best, conditional; and yet it supplies us with sozne farther means of esti mating the height atld (lensity of the atmosphere of Venus with a somewhat greater precisiotl. I-f, according to the above principles alid computations, it be deterlnitled that tlae twilight of Venus extends, at least irl a . .; . considerable proportion, as far as ours; and if the inferior part on tbe Atmosphere of Menus.of the atm-osphere, as far as a perpetldicular height of ooo feet be so dense as to r&flect SO clear a light upon a zone ex tending 67 geo-gr tniles into the dark hemisphere, that we, at a distance of ollly 12° +7' +5" froln the sun, an:l when this luminary -is only from 3 to 4, degrees belowt the horizon, can see it so di:stitctly atld evidelltly as to be able to compare it to our common tsvilig,ht, nzeasuring 6° 2g'I, it rnust follow, that the atnosphere of Venus rises like ours, far above the highest mountains: and although we asc.ribe t-o that atmosphere the $reatest possible transparency, it will still remaitl a rnore opake covering tilall5 according to my Selenotopographical Observatic)ns, that of the moon appears to be l'hese observations also point out tlle probable cause why we clo not see on this our nearest9 prilMary plallet, even 1ll the most favourable circtlmstances, any of the superficial shades, which, according to all analogy, we have 7t^easorl to suppose orl this, as well as on all the other planetary bodies; ancl which, considering the proximity of the planet, we should, when at its mean distance, and with a good HERSCHELLEAN telescope, magnifying: 60 or 70 times, certainly distinguish llearly as plainly as T have seetz, even fwith the naked eye, the superficial shades onthe moon, not only the greatest ones, bllt also some of the lesser, such as Copernicus, Aristarchus, &c., and surely, fi well as we can discern) with a proper luminous magnifying power, . . . . . the rrariable faint atmospheric stripes on Saturn-and-Jupiters and the atmospheric opacities on Mars. At least it appears to mej that tlae dens<ty of the lower part of Tenus's asttuosphere, which etlables it tO rEf1EGT SO clear a light into the -dark hemisphere, sufficiently svarrants such a conject-ure: and it may Btell be conceived, that with so dense an atmosphere the very XX 2 Mr. SCHROETER s Ohservatzorzsfs Q-Dstrong light of Venus must occasion a much greater degree of glare, Ethan the soft light of the nloon in a much more rarified atmosphere. In; generaI it appears to me, that whoever will bestow some attention on these observatiotls, and compare tilem impartially with the many others I have made on the atmospheres of the moon, Jupiter, Saturn, and even the sun, will find a striking coitlcidence between them. The simple fact, that Venus in its diSerent phases, and esJ pecially at the titnes of its-greatest elongations, shews a much greater diminution of light at its terminating border than the moon iS IlO doubt, sufficietlt to point out a much denser atmospllere than that of this satellite. And this is, moreover} fully evinced by the observations on its twilight. The circumstallce also, that there are seen on this planet none of the flat spherical forms as are conspicuous on Jupiter and Saturn, llOIle of the stripes or longitudinal spots parallel to the equator, which are seen otl these planets and the sun, and which point out a certain stretch of atmospheren gives room to itlfer, that the globe of Venus, with reference to its diameter, and other circulnstances of physical-arrangement in its construction,$ performs its rotation round its axis in a much longer space of time than those planets, or the nearly similar ones of our earth and Mars; and this is ?ctually confirmed by my olzservations on the diurnal period of Venus. Thus we see a remarkable coincidence in every respect ; alld yet, though we cannot suppose a smallers but rather a greater force of gravity on the surface-of Venus than on our globe, . . . # These refierences have already been noticed by Chevalier D E GOI ! PY, in the 70urnal des Savans for January, 1769; and befiore him, by M. D E MA I R A N, in the Me° moires Anad, for 1/ 29. See DE LA LA-NDE'S Astron. §. 3ZI9 and 312Z. on tbe Atmosphere og Venus337nature seems, hover, to have raised on the former such great inequalities, andtnountaitls of such enormous height, as to exceed 4,Sn at1(l even 6 times the perpetldicular eletration of Cimbotaco, tlae highest of our mountaitls. Thus are we, by these observations) led to a farther contemplation of the ialmense, and yet analogical variety with svhich the great Autllor of nature has dignified his works, as well in the greater objects, as in the smallest rnicroscopic atoms; and the incessant no velty of combinations with which he has adorned them. On the Atntosphere of the Moonu Referring to lny Selenotopographic Fragments for the proofs I there addulced of the real existence of a lunar atmospheres which had been so frequently doubted; I shall also appeal to the same work for tlle observations I formerly made on several of its relative properties, compared with the same in our atmosphere, such as its greater dryness, rarityX and clearnessX .. which, however, do nc)t Xprevent its refracting the solar raysy having pointed out the circumstance that the mountaills irl the dark 11emisphere of the moon, near its luminous bordery which are of sufficient height to receive the light of the sunf are the more feebly illuminated the lnore distant they are from that border: from uthich proofs of a refracting atrIlosphere, I also deduced theprobability of the existence of a faint twilightX which, however, lny lollg series of observfations had not-yet fully evinced. As one fortunate discovery often leads to another, I had no sootzer succeeded in my observations on the twilight of Venust than I directed my attention to that of the moon, and applied 8Mr. SCHE0ETERSS Observationsthe calculations and illferencesI there made, to some appear ances I h$d already noticed on this satellite. It occurred to me, tllat if in fact there wgere a tzrilight on t-he moonS as there is on Venus and our earth, it could not, considering tlae greater rarity of its atrzlosphere, be so consi(leralble: and that the vestiges of it, allowillg for the-brightness of tlae llltninous part of the moon, the strong light that is thence thrown upon the fielduof the telescope, and itasome measure the reflected light of our earth, could only be traced on the limbt particularly at the CllspS; arld evell this ollly at the time when our own twiligllt is llOt strong, but the air very clear, and when the lBoon, in one of its least phases, is in a high altitude, either in thespring, bllowing the sun two days after a new mootl, or in the autumn,tpreceding the sun ill the mottling, with the same aspect: in a word, that the projectiotl of this t;wilight will be the greater and more perceptible the more falcated the phases and the higher;the moon above the horizon, alad out of our own twilight. This struck me the more as I recollected having, two years ago, perceived sucll an appearatlce at the outward nedge 1lear the points of the cuspss though I did not then reffect on the cause of it. As Sall the requisite circumstances, llozvever, do not often coincide I thougllt myself particularly fortunate henn on the 24th of February, I was favoured with a lvicky combination ofthem. Although this be as yet only a sillgle observation of tlle sort, it is hourever, in every respect so completen and the inferences it leads to are, to me at least so new arld interestilag that I catlnot vvithhold it from those liberal lninded snelz, vvho-are zealous in the pulsuit of genuine philosophical knowieclgeO on the Stmosphere of the Moonx >39 On tlle abovernentiolled evening, at,5h 40t) two days and . . . t-welare hours aRer the new nzoon, wlletl in consequence of the libratiollt the western border of the grey surface of the Mare Crisium was 1' 2OM distant frotn the western limb of tlize moon, the air being perfectly clear, I prepared rny seven-feet reflector, nagnifying seventy-four times, in order to observe the first clearing-up of tlle dark hemisphere, ullich was illuminated only ly the light of our earth) and more especially to ascertaill nrhebher in fact this hernispllere svhich, as is well known, is always somewhat more lumillous at the lirnb than in the niddle, svould emerge out of our tw-ilight at many parts at once, or frst only at the two cusps. Both these points appeared now, most distinctly and decidedly, tapering in a very sharp, faint, scarce any where interrupted, prolongation; each of them exhibitillg? with the greatest precisioll, its frthest extreluity fail<t]y illulninated by the solar rays, before ally parl; of the dark hernisphere could be distitguished. But this dark hemisphere began soon after to clear up at once at its border, though irnmediately orlly at the cusps? where, butXmore particularltr at their points, this border displayedS on both at the satne time, a luminous margin, above a lmirlute in breadth, of a very pale grey light, wllich3 compared sn ith that of the farthest extremities of the cusps themselvess svas of a very diSerent co1our, and relatively as faillt as the tvvilight I discovered oll the dark hemisphere of Venus, and tElat of our ovvn earth, when compared vvith the light; immediately derived from the sun. This light however, faded away so gradually towards the east, as to rellder the border on that side perfectly undefitled, the termination losing itself iinperceptiblyX in the eolour of the sky M* SCHROETERX 0t3se^vations34 I examined this light with a]l possible cares and found it of the same extent at both points? and fading away at both in the same gradual proportiola. But I also, vvitll tlle sanle cautZion, explored whetller I collld distinguish any part of the lirnb of tlle nzoon farther towards the east; since ifthis crepuscular light had been the effiect of the light reflected from our globe9 it would undoubtedly haveappeared more sensibly at the parts most remote from the glare of the illuminated helllisphere. But, with the greatest exertiorl of my visllal powers, I could notX discover any part of the, as yet, utholly darkened hemisphere, except one single speck, being the summit of the mountainous ridge Leibnitz) which was then strongly -illuminated by the solar light: and indeed eight minutes elapsed before the remainder of the limh became visible; when not only separate parts of it, but the whole displayed itself at once. This al-one gave me certain hopes of AI1 ampIe recolupence, and satisfied me that the principles I had laid down in my Selenotop. Fragm. § $2ss seqq. concernirlg the atmospheres of the planets, and especially of the zmoon, are founded on truth. But a similar observation made on the 6th, after searen o'clock, afforded me several collateral circumstances, vv?hich strongly corroborate what I have there advanced on this subject. The whole lilnb of the dark hemisphere illuminated only by the reflected light of our globe, appeared now so clear and distinc-t, that I could very readily discern not orlly the large, but also the smaller spots, and among these Plato Aristarchus, Menelaus, IvIanilius,wCopernicus, &c. and even -the small speck to the north-west of Aristarchus, marked b, Tab. XXVII. fig. 1. of the Fragnlentsb I could apply the usual -bn the Xlmosptere of the 11ABO#.Sp:41power magnifying z61 times; and had fiull leisure, and the neans to e:xamine every thillg carefully and repeatedly, atld tv take very accurate measurements. Although a just ideaoiS sc) delicate a phnornenon as this crepuscular light cannot p-ossibly be conveyed by a :drawing, but lnust be gathered from actual inspection, I have nevertheless attempted a delineation of its and of the southernand eastern cusps fig. 1 and 2 Tab. VIII. as deducecl from nzy measurements, especially at the -southern cusp, in hopes thereby to render svhat I have farther to say collcerning this observation the more intelligible. The soutilern cusp, fig. . extetlded froln a to c, with a gradually facling but still resplendent solar light, of its usual pale yellow colour) and ternainated at c with a mountain. That this was really the poirt of the cusp, appears not only from the gerleral const:ruction of the falcated segment, vvllich was sufficiently narrow even at its beginning a, near which it uTas somewhat disfigured at b by a high Jnoulatain; but also from the laarrowness of its lllminous curve at d e and f, the -breadth of which seldom exceeded ", and had a sensible interruption so llear as d. This curve was throughout, from a to c, except svhere the glare of the solar rays spread some gdegree of light, bordered with the pale ash-colour of the idark hemisphere, glimmering with the faint light reflected froln our earth, out of which, however, rose the higller mountains g, h, iX c, wllich were now already illuminated by tlle sun; and fartller con, not less than tllirty lines, or, according to my vlsu-al pro3-ection, tvo minutes3 di$tant from the point c, wasr seen anothex mountain 1, which belorlged to the high ridge Leibzitz) arld also received its light immediately from the sune MDCCSC I I4 Y y Mr. SCEIROETESS ObservationsTllere can hence be no ^doubt ofthe termination o f the cusp I)ting at c: and this being well ascertained I now distin guished with the greatest certainty the tsvi]ight extending from c to k. The most remarkabIe circumstances attending this J;g;ht were, that it was broadest arld brightest at c, alld that it dwiildled away and contracted towards k, where it lost itselE irl the fain-t glimlnering of our terrestrial Jight; and that at the nor-thern cusp, Eg. 2) at which there do laot appear to be so marly ulountains and inequalities as at tl:at soutllertl, this light exhibited the salne pyramidal form and was oiS equal length, and alike fading lrs intensity and colour, as that {gt the southern. This lig;ht, cotnpared vjJith tilat of the thinnest atad lea$t brigsllt part of the cusp d c) Vas as faint as the pale ash coloured spots in tTle lulninous hemisphere, hen opposed to the bright ones But tilis is st;ill better illustlated by a comparison betwreen the high mountain / fig. , whicla 11OW already appeared illutninated Jby the solar light aad tlae SpQt Aristarchus, whicll sholle moderately merely with tlae light reflected from our globe. The said mountain hadn comparatively with the thin luminous arc d e f of tlae bright heulisphere, and the nlount-ains gn b, is cg a very lpale, fading, but yet brigllter light than Aristarchusy as indeed tnight have been expected fronl what I said in my SelerlotsDp. Fragm*; but this reflected light upon Aristarcllus wtas however sensibly brigllter than the glirzlmerilg light -from c to k Alad respect illg the still fainter terrestrial liht xrhich bordered the luminous curve from c to k, fig. o and I cannot give a better idea of it than by observing, that the ligilt at the extreinities of both the cusps appeared of a pyratnidal ;tortn sirnilar to but ox tbe Altmosphere oJ the 1m)0X5'343though gradually fading and very undefined, yet brighter tilan that of our zQcliacal light, uthen in the months of March and April it blends itselfg comparatively with the remainitzg colourof the skyg vitil the terrestrial lights terminating inXa very sharp point. lthe undefined and gradually fading appeararlce of this lighe w-as the cause that tlaough I had recourse to a ciark projectioll tablt, I could not, howevers take anyz accurate measuremerlts o£ z. I found nevertheless, by repeated comparisons, that the lellVll of this pyrainidal glilllrnering light in which I cotlld perceixre lao serlsible inequality at t}z-e litmLb of the moonaluounted to about 3 of t:he dlstarLce between the two mountains c) 1 fig. ) w}<ich shone sarith the -solar lighe Comparillg also this southern tsvilight witll the northerll, it appeared of the saule length; and on measurillg tlle distance c 19 I foulzd it repeatedly-go lines = 2'; SO that the length of the twilight must have almounted to o lines_ t estt. Its greatest breadth at c could, on the c>ther hand because of -the exterlt and greater density of its light be easily ascertained by lneans of the itnluediate application of tlle projection tablec This measurement garre at rnost 3 of a line, or full 21t. Although I be positively Crtaill of this very rerllarkable ap pearance at both cusps, and of its perfect similarity in all my observations) I tould aot howe0rer-> trace any vestige of a like-crepuscular light at any other part of the terrninatirlg boraler :+ nor coulel I orl the ver-y next earetlitlg, being the eStl and also on the 26th of February) perceiveX everl at the cusps, any of the twilight I expectel to see there; the rery thin, fairuts lulllitlC>uS line wThich did: illdeed appear on the e6th at the $outherrl cusp between a and b fg. $, being urldoubtedly the Yy2 Mr SCHROETER'S Observationseffect ofthe immediate sol-ar light, probably illumizating some prominellt, flat area as yet situated in the dark hetnisphere. Thus far the o-Sservations: anct now tor the appliGatioll of thetn. I need hardZy insist 1lpon the pr-ooEs, that the very fctint pyramidal glimmering light, observecl on the 24th of FebruaryS at the efxtremities of both cusps, could by no means be tlat imme dlate effiect of the solar liglatn a11 the circumstances of the observatlons militating uniformly and decidedly agaitlst this suppositi-on, whicll, were it true, would ohlige us to adlzlit a most unaccountable diminution of light, arld thence also a dellsity of the lunar attnosphere, that ,rght to exceed even the cletlsity of ours; a fact absolutely corltradicted by all tEle lunar observations hitherto made. Ithis light, indeed, was SQ very faint, that it disappeared at 7h 201, when the moon approac.lled the harizon; whilst, on the other halad, Aristarchus, which had no light but what it received frotn the eartll, was still very distinguishable; alad the summit of Leibnitz 1, figS lD (which, though far within the dark hemisphere, was, howeverg illumitlated by the immediate solar rays3 displayed a degree of brightrless which, althoubh when compared n7ith that of the cusp d ef, it appeared rrery faint and dwindling equalleci, 11ourever, that of our Pic of Teneriffe. Nor can it be conctived why thls glim-xnering light broke of so suddenly at both the cusps, without a progressive diminution. It can llardly be supposed that similar, grey, prominent, flat areas, of the same form and dimensions, and comparatively=of a faint lightg which, whilst in the dark hemisphere5: they derive imtnecliately from the sun, exist otl all-parts of the rxloon; more especially as at tlle places observed, the linab happened to exhibit throughout on bbe Shnosphere of tbe Moon.-sMan exact spherical forlns without the least sen$ible inequality; and as ill both the bordering regiotls of the rlorthern alld southern hemispheres, especially in the latter no such grey, prominent platles are any uthere discernible. It may thell be asked why did this fidillt glimmering light appear at both cusps, along equal arcs ofthe limb, of equal length asld breadth, and of the same pyramidal fbrm? and why did its firther extremity blend itself with the terrestrial light of the dark hemisphere, which according to a great number of my selenotopographic obwrvations, is by no means the caw, even with those grey prominent areas hich, being at some distance on the dark side of the terminating borcler, are nevertheless illuminated immediately by the sun ? These, therefore} coulel certainly not derivebtheir light imtnediately fronl the sun; whence this appearance like the similar otles on the planet Venus can only be aKscribed to the solar rays reflected by the atluosptlere of the moon upc!n those planes producing on them a very faint) gradually diminishing, fimmering light which at last loses itself in the reflected terrestrial light, in the salme marlner as our twilight blends itself with the light of the moon. Every cirnmstance of the above observatioll seetns to me to cotlfirm this supposition; and hence the observation itself, w7hich, thougl l single, was however a most fortunate and complete one, must appear of no small degree of importance, sinw it not only cotlfirms the observations and inferences on the long contested lunar atmosphere cotltained in my Selenotop. Fragm. but also furnishes us with many more lights concerning the atmosphere of planets in getleral than had Wen affiorded us by all thow obserarations collectively. Mr SCHROETER S ObservationsThis,^and the mathematical certaillty that the phtnomenon is, in fact, nothing but areal tuZilight in the lunar atmosphere, will be fartherJevinced by the following theoretical deductions, in which the same mode of computing as was used in the obserarations on Venus, will be adopted with this dlf ference, that the anglef c g, fig. 7, Tab. VI _ A c F,is -equal to the angle D c E, or the geocentric elongation of the moon from the sun. 1. According to the above observatior we find that the tsvilight at both cusps tneasuredn frorn c to k fig. 1 and 2, Tab VIII. go lines= llw go/. The apparent diam. of tlle moon being at 6h p. M.-So' 18'; whence the twiligllt must have exter}ded over ala arc of the limb rtleasuring 4° SS 23tt; and9 if the real diam. of the inoon be assumed at 465 geogr miless this extent tnust have ansvvered toj 194 of these tniles. 2. But sve have seen that:c, fig. 7, Tab VI. or the naea sured projectiorl of the twilight is by no means the true dis tance of its farther edge f frotn the terlninating border gc Tlais distance, therefore, must be found by the following coln Jputation: Long. of the moorl Feb. -24, 6h p. Mt-gs yo g9' 22tt tong. of the sun = * 52 22e DiSerenGe of Long. = < t 47 o Sl 47 O Latittlde of the moon _ o 22 17 Log.cos. 31t47t ot = L.g5ggg+4g + Logs cos. Q 22 s7 _ L. g>ggggo8 Log., disto of X from the O L. 9s9e94q3 Sl 47 7 on the StxmosWhere ef thte Moon 34¢ . . . Thus was the above the amount of the anglef¢gt fig. 7; and as the sin. of the arcf g = sill.f c x sin.f c g, tXhen Log sitl.fc L 4t 5g 23 = L. 8g3oG436 +Log.sin.fcg_ L.31 4y 7 _ L.g,721Sg4t L. sin f g = 8,6Se378 svhich gives f g = 2°> 34 w246" Whence I infir, that the breadtll of the lunar twilight kom the terrninating border to where it lows itwlf in and assumes the faint appearance of; the ligllt reflected fFom our earth, measures itl a direction perpendicular to the aforesaid border, -2° 34/ GS'tv equal to a breadth of lQs lines} or 103 geogr. nliles. . 8 . : s > 8 r 9; . Hetlce, mitting that the lawTs of thes inflection of light are the same in the moorl as on our earth and Venus, it will be easy to compute the perpetldicular heigElt of the illferior arld more dense part of the lunar aAmosphere b d, fig. 9, Tab. VIl. ; the angle c, in the rigat angled triang;le d c e, _ 1° X 7/ 6tt alld the radius b c 234 geogr. rniles or 8919t, toises, being glven; vv} aence Iog rad. X-L. 89191+-L. S9S03210 ljog. cos. 17' 611 = 1. 9,9998908 5n9Jo+302 = 8921p bs-8 DS4 dh= : 226 So that the inferior more denw part of the moons atmosphere, measures, i2} wrpendiculat heightg not more than 226 toi^s, or 13 Paris ket; that inirior part, natlaely, Mr. SCHROSTER3S Obsertatiosg which refleets so much of the solar light into its dark he rnispluereas produces a twilight more luminous than the light reflected upon its stlrEace frotu the earth, when it is only git 47' 9tt from its opposition to the moon, when consequentlys it shews the greatest part of its diskX illuminated, and affiords some degree of light to the rlights in the moon. A cursory survey of these computationsX shews that they not only contribute to illustrate the observationsX but also tllat they coincide so fully with the collateral circumstances, as still farther to confirm those observations. 1. r was well aware, even at tlle time I made the observations, that the lunar twilight must, as it actually didn appear in the form of a lengthened pyralnid. Atld indeed the yth fig. Tab. VI. vvhich represents the twilight c kn gf, F b, lefore the conjurlction, projecting from thetcusps towards the west, clearly points out, that only its pyramidal part cf k could be visible at T, whilst the who]e remainder of it Fg c J h ex tended over tlle whole hemisphere of the mootl A F D E Cv which svas turned avv-ay from the eye of the observer 2. It appeared to me, on the other hand, before I had suffi ciently reflected oll tllese collateral circumstances, that it could not well be reconciled to theory, that tTlis twilightg uthose length from c tof measured go lines, should at c k, wllere its breadtIl was the greatest not be broader than , or at most 3 of a line. I soon, however) rernoved the difficulty by the follow. . ing deduction. Frotn the above computation, it appears that thesidefg=kc, or the distance offk, the fartheredge Of the twilight from the terminator g C3 was = lo, lines, or an arc of 2° 34' tts But the arc k c =fg*, or the greatest visible on tbe Aftntosphere of the Moon.349 breadth of tlle ttilight did not latr, like the side tc, alollg the edge of the limb, but nearly at right angles to it, in a direction imrnediately tenditlg towards the eye: wllence its orthograplaic pnoJection could by no means amount to °S lines, but musty according to well known principles, be less in the proportion of the sine of 2° g4t t21' to the cosine = lo,S, whence by the follouting computation Log. k c-f g = L. 1o,5 = L+. 2,o2o o89tS K Log. sin. > 34' 12tt = L. 8,6S166+8 -L os Tllis greatest apparent breadth of the twrilight at the cusps could not, therefore, exceed °S lines, or full twto secontls; andl thls in fact was the bleeadth given it by the observation. It is scarce possible, that in the determination of SQ nice an oW}ect theortr should coincide more accurately with observation. . But itSappears farther from these observations, why, not withstanding all the pains I took, I could perceive nothing of this twilight at the terminating border of the falcated phaset and why, oll the succeeding evenings this light disappearedlikewise at the cusps. The brightness of the phase will, evert on the first days after the new tnoon occasion a strong glare ln the field of the telescope, and Xthis particularly at the spherical borders ternzinating the liglat; so that the nzargin COlltiguous to this borders which is only illuminated by tlle light reflected fiom the earth, lmay, indee-d, appear luminous but must necessarily be very undefined. The smaller the pllase, moreover, the less ;will be the projection of the twilight at the terminating border, so that on the third day after the new moon it cannot well amount to much more than 2at at the cusps; and it \\Tsll then be so far obscured by the stronger uDCCXCI Is z z lfIr. SCHROETER S Obsersatlons3Solight of the illulrlinated hemisphere as to be almost evanescentU The best illustration of this, and of the kllown fact that irl the broader phases the twilight w?ill, oll accoullt of the strong ;cotltrasting light of the lutninous part, vanish eveil at the cusps, is given by the spots Manilius alad Menelaus. Both are situated llear the centre of the hetnisphere turl1ed tosvards our earth; botlsl have considerable diameters) the orle of 24 and the ot:her of betnreell 14 and 16 seconds, and both appear very distinctly on the tlaird day after the nesr mootla vitll a degree of light rather surpassing that of tlle twilight. These spots9 howeverX notBtithstanding their great diameters, vanish 011 ac count of the increasing glare of light) so s08n as four days after -the new moonX although they be then still at some distance from the terminal;ing border^ How could, therefore, a faint light, tneasuring only e-" in breadth, be visible on the third day after a newt tnoon, at the terulinatirlg border ? And how S could it at the fourth day still appear distitlctly at the hright cusps, w1aere it is, indeed, of a rnore considerable extent, but still musts in consetuence of its pyramidal forrll, soon dwindle -away into a very narrovv tapering stripe? This? moreover, was precisely the case in the many observations I made or the planet VenusX From theiabove calculations it also appears, that the lower and more dense part of the lunar atmosphere, that part, namely, w}lich has the power of reflectilag this bright crepuscular light, is only 356 Paris fieet in height;^and hence it will easily be explained how, according to the different libiations of the moon, ridges of mountains even of a moderate height, situated at or near the tertninating border, may par * See Selenot. Fragm, §. 53X. on the Stmostbere of the AIoon.Ssttially-illterrupt, or, at tilmess wholly prevent this crepuscular lght, either at one or the other cusp, and sometirnes at both. I cannot hence but consider the discovery I here announw as a very fortunate one, both as it appears to me clecisive, ancl as it may induce future observers to direct their attetation to this pllaenonlenon. Admitting the validity of this new obsertation, svhicll, I thinli, callnot well be called in quesxion, I proceed nosv to deduce from it the following inferences. . It confirms, -to a degree of elriderleJe, all the seletzotopograpllic observations I have been so successful as to make, on the various and alternate charlges of particular parts of tlle lulaar atmoslJhere. If the inferior and more dense part of this atmosphere be in fact) of sufficient density to reflect a tw; lig;ht over a zone of the dark hemisphere gQ 34J, or 104 geogr. miles in breadth, which shall in intensity exceed tlle light re flected upon its dark hemispilere by the almost wholly illu minated disk of our earth; and if, by an incidental computation, this dense part be foutld to tneasure rgG6 feet in per pendicular height it lnayj according to tlle Wstrictest analogyn be asserted, that the upper, and gradually more rarified strata, tnust, at least, reach above the highest mountains ill the moon. And this will appear the more eviclent, if ute reflect that, not withstanding the inferior degree of gravitatiola orl the surface of the mooll, which NEVVTON has estitnated at somewhat less than <6 °f that lon our earth, the lower part of its atmosphere is, nevertheless, of so collsiderable a density. This considerab]e density will, there/fore, fully account for the diminution of light vbserared at the cusps, and on the high ridges Leibnits and l;:)oerfel vvhen illuminated in the dark hemisphere; a-s Z z 2 Mr. SCHROETE1lSS Observations2also for the several obscurations and returning serenity, the eruptiolls, and other changes I llave frequently observed in the lunar atmosphere. This observation also implies, . That the atmosphere of the moon is, notwithstanding this collsiderable density, much rarer than that of our earthX And this, indeed, is sufficiently confirmed by all our other lunar observations. I think I nway assert with the greatest confidence, that the clearer part of our twilight, when tlae sun is 4° belov our horizoll, and when we can convenietltly read and write by the light we receive from it, surpasses considerably in intensity the light whi(>h the almost w^rholly illuminated disk of our eartil xeflects upon the dark hemisphere of the trloon 22 days before and after the new rnootl. But should wte even ac1Wmit an equal degree of intensity, it will, however, appear from computatiall that our inferior atmosphere, which reflects as strong ae lig;ht over 4° as that of the moon does over 2° 34' of their respective circumferencesg must be at least eigtlt times higher tllan that of the moon. g. The striking dimintltioll of light I noticecl, in uly twelve years observations on Vetlus, likewise indicates that the atmosphere of that planet, which is in many sespects similar to ours, is nauch dehser than that of the moon; and this vill be still farther corrolsorated, if re cornpare together the several measurenlelats and computatiotas made concerning the twilights of diffierent planets. rrhere is no doubt but that the faintest twilight of Venus, as seen eitller before or after the risitlg and setting of the sun across our twilight, is much brighter than that of the moon; and it appears, moreover, from computatioll, that tlle denser part of the atmosphere of Venus measures at least a,5ooo Paris feet in heigllt, and spreads on tbe Atmosphere of the Moon.its twilight 67 geogr. miles into the dark hemisphere, whilst the denser part Of the lunar atmosphere, svhose height does not exceed 3G6 feet, produces a faint twilight not above 103 geogr. miles in breadth Thus, as my successful obserrations on the twilight of Venus led me to the discovery of that of tlle moon, so did these latter reciprocally confirm the forlner: and thus, which ever vay we contetuplate the subject, lnust we be struck with the coincidence that prevails throughout. 4. BvIt if the lllnar-atmosphere be comparatively so rare, it follows that the inflection of light produced by it canllot be very considerable; and hence does the conlputation of M. DU SEJouR, according to which, the inflection of the solar rays which touch the lnoon, amoutlts to no rtlore than 4tt29 receiere arl additional degree of authenticity.* Besides which, 5. As the true extent of the brightest lunar twilight amounts to 2Q 34', the obliquity of the ecliptic in the moon only to w° 29'; the inclination of the orbit of the moon, on the cortrary, to ° ', and its synodic period, during which it performs a revolution round its axis is = 29d 12h; it follows, that its brig;htest twilight, to where it loses ltself in the light reflected by the almost fully illuminated disk of our earth must, at least at its nodes, last sh 3', and that it will be still lotlger at other parts of the orbit, according to the situation of the . . nodes. 6. And lastly, it being a well known factX that the fixecl stars, as thg approach the mooll, diminish in splendour at the most only a very few seconds before their occultationsJ it was * See DE LA LANDERS Astron i. li92-I994, + See Selenot. Fragm. §. 531, with its note. Mr. SCHROETER S O^servations4atural for me, afier the successful observations I had made on the twilight of the luoon, to pay particular attentlon to this circumstance. 0n the 2tSth February, at 6h p. M. the sky belg very clear, the linlb of the dark part of the luoon appeared tlcotumonly distinct; arld only a few seconds of a degree from its eelge was seen a telescopic star, of about the goth or lgth magnitude. I counted full 20'1 before its occultation, and xXf of these, without the least perceptible diminution of light. The stars hourever, began now gradually to fade, and after the remaillillg 1"2, duriIIg wllich I observed it with all poslble attention, it vanished in an instant. This observation agrees perfectly vvith the above computations Although it be proved that the inferior dense part of the lunar atmosphere reflects a stronger l-ight than that which the dark hemispilere receives from an almost fully illuminated disk of our earth; atld although, considering the lnferiority of gravitation on the surface of the moon, there be no doubt that this dense part, together vwZith the superior gradually more rarified regions of its atmosphere, must extend far aboure its highest mountains; it is yet a fict that the breadth ofthis observed twilights to where it loses itself irl our reflected terrestrial light, does not measure more than 2° 34: it is therefore, highly probable that its greatest extent, in the most farrourable phases llear our new moon, can rlever exceed the double of the above arc, or ^5° 8'; and hence we can only infer a perpetldicular height of an atmosphere, capable of inflecting the solar rays, which at most measures SS76 feet: nor is it very likely that unless accidental and llitherto unl<nown circumstances should occasionally condensediffierent parts of this atmosphere,these upperstratashould xnaterially affect the distincttless of a star seen through ito on the Stmosphere of the Moon. SS But admitting the heigllt ofthe atmosphere, which nzay aiect the brightness of a fixed star) not to be less thatl GS76 faeet) this will amourlt to an arc of only o,g4", or not quite one second; and as the lnootl describes an arc of " in 2" of timen it fbllovs that in general the fadilag of a star, whicll approaches to an occultatiotzX cannot last quite 2tt in time; that ilS the appulse be at a part of a lilmsb of the moon where a ridge of mountaills interferes, the gradual obscuration will last a still shorter time; and that it may, 1lnder some circumstances of this ature,, be even instatltaneous. Slltplenzent to the foregoixg Obserscltions on the Stmostbere of the Moon. The following observation of an occuItation of Jtlpiter by the moon, when near its fiullv occurred to me by m@re accidentj orl the yth of Aprilg a 792 ; alld I xvas the tnore gratified by it as I had long wished for an opportunity tQ observe such a pllxnomenon, and had no expectation of seeing it at this tirne, no mention being made of it in the Ephemerides. Tlre sky being rery serene, and Jupiter uncommonly bright, I prepared my seven-feet reflector, magnifying 74 times, in hopes that the strorlg light and distinctness it afforded would enable me to compare the appearances of this phxnomenon with the results 0vhich I had deduced froln my late observations on the height and derlsity of the atluosphere of the moon. Fig . Tab. IN:. represetlts the situation of Jupiter's four satellite$9 as they appeared, most distinctlyt two of them to the westward, the second about one, and the first near two of Jllpiters diameters distarst from its limb; and the two otlwers gs6Mr. SCHROETER'S Observationsto the eastward, the third about seven, and the fourth near eight of the same diameters, distant from the osaid limb. Fig. 2. shews Jupiter, with its belts, and of a somewhat -spheroidical form, as it nowv appeared to me, and as distinctly as I had ever seen it. The equatorial belt, from a to d, was rery apparent. It consisted properly of two zones, a 6, and £ d, of a brownish-grey colollr, with a more luminous interEval b c, between tllem. At e andfwere two comparatively weIl defined stripes, hicla I laad noticed for many years back, but which now crossed the whole disk ; arsd the polar regions appeared again, from g and h, more dim and grey tllan the bright p-art of the planet. But what particularly struck me, were tsvo nebulous undefined spots} z and k, which were sensibly darker than the prlrlcipal zone d d; and at 1, a still more remarkable, circular, though ilnperfectly defined spc)t, somesvhat brighter than the lutninous interval between the zones, and perfectltr similar to the remarkable lllminous spot which I had obserared in r 786 and z787, on the same part of Jupiter, and which then led me to some very unexpected inferences corlcerning $he atmosphere of that planet.* These favourable circumstatlces led me to the following accurate observation, which I was certain would prove instruc tive to me. At loh 40t Sott, I saw the spot i at about the middle of its parallel; atld immediately after began the occultatiorl than which a more distinct and beautiful one was perhaps never seen. * Beytr. zu den neuestee Xstron. Entd p. 75. and Tab. I. Eg. 6. oaa the -Atmostbere of tte MoonImglersions. The westerll, preceding, first satellite disappeared behind the shsl-rp bright limb o:f the moonn at xoh ,3t 2.-t N. B. There tnay here haxte beeta £1 error of tWQ or three seco<ds, as the satellite becatne illdistitlct at the limb. The second satellite disappearedX withollt beconaing at all sndistinct exactly at xoh 4^51 o9l/. The western limb of Jupiter came in colltactX most disti*ctiy with -the eastern litub of the moon) at loll 4,6' 32"S5. Jupiter's eastern lilab disappeared, as distinctly cat loh 48t sot',sS. N. B. This imulersion took place, as represented in fig. $, to tl:we eastw-ard of Aristarchus, at about tlle 24th degree of N. Iat. . The tllird satilite disappeared, anfter having been for about3 one or tsvo seconds faillt and i<distinct, at aoh ,S8t ,g7",S. The fourth satellite, whicll appeared the least of thenz-aII, became undiscernible llear the limb,, arld vallished at about tlh 2t 16/t N. 13 There may have been an error of four or five seconds. . Emersionse The two preceding first and second satelnlites w-ere here likF wise of use in determining precisely the emersion of both tlle limbs of Jupiter, from the dark hernisphere of the moon. * True time, determined by equal Ktitudes, taken on the xth and 8th of Aprit, and zd and 27th of March, and by the known rate of the clocks X buSt as no altitudes could be taken on the 7th, there may be an error of two or three &econds MDCCSCII. S A Mr. SCHROETER'S Observations8The first appearance of Jupiter's western limb was rery dis tinct at 1lh 43t 54f Emersioll of the easterrlXlimb, as distinct, at tlh 4SS .39"Sse N. B This emersion took place, as represented in fig. 4, to the rlorth-eastward of Seneca (B, Tab VIII. oftheFrag.), at about the 23d degree of N. lat -lshe emersion of the next) or third satelliteg was llot observed. That of the fourth was distinct, at 1 th 59t 11/ This observation gave me the naore satisfaction, as it singularly contrsbuted to confirm tlle discovery I had been so fortunate as to lnake of the tvvlilight in tlwe moon, andthe height and density of the lower stratum of its atmospllere EXPerZenCe 11aS sUffiCient1Y PrOved, that a StrOnger s^?ill ever SCUrC a fainter 1ighT ; and it fO110\VS T1enCe, that the 1ight Of a bright Star aPPrOaChirLg The mOOY1 When fiU11, Or neArlY SO7 \ViI1 ;10Se SOIMeth;g Of itS IUStre: bUt 1itTle CAn be: irRfierred in faVOUr Of an atmOSPhere eiThEr Of the mOOn, Or Of MarSY frO1n the ObSerVatiON Of CASSINI, in which, as Dr HERSCHEL has illustrated bY solne observations Of his own,* a star in Aquarius, of the sixth magllitude) and as yet -six tninutes distant frOm Mars, diminished in light when both were seen irz the same field Of the telescope. A mere apparent diminutiorl of light, occasioned by the glare of a larg;er luminous objects wthen seen at the sarne time with a srnaller one, in the field o:f the telescope, is one thing; and another thing is a real iadistinctness of the small lulminous body, which increases in proportiot as they approach nearer to each other. * Phil. Trans. fol the Year I 78+, Part IT. p. 27xv on the Stmosphere of the Moon.a:STe was very natllral for Jupiter to diminish in brightneB, when it approached so near to the xnoon, then almost atits full, as to be 1seen at the sanae titnein the field of the telescope, which was, in fict, the circumstance of this obseraration; but I could not observe any progressive variation of light in the eastern and western, equa]ly luminous, disks proportioal to tlleir distances from the lilnb of tlle moon, tnllch less a real illdistinctness; and this neither ss-hela the limbs cf the tsvo lzlatlets svere nearly in contact, nor when Jupiter was partly5 or abotlt one half, covered by tlle moon It sras a sight truly gratifying to an eye accustomed to the light of the ltoon or in general to similar observatiotls,;to behold hov Jupiter, at its immersion, as well as emersion, being llalf, or more than half, covered by the moon exhibited its. -i3elts and other parts, as diStinGtly, close to the litnb of the znoon, as it does at someZdistance from it and had I not a1 ready succeeded in my numerous observations on the atmosphere of the tnoon atld very recetltly in those which enabled me to -determine its twilight, I should perhaps have adopted the doubts the anclent astronomers entertained concerning the existence of a lunar atmosphere; and tliis the rather, as when Jupiter, in its immersion} was so far covered, that tlle luminous spot 1, fig. , was close t-o the moon I (ould plainly distin guish this spot alth:ough it be in itself bfr no lueans very perceptible. Such, hoRNever, tnust have been the appearalltes, according to my new observatiolls and nzeasurelnents of t}le twilight of -the moorw: for lf it be proved that the extent of this twilight3, to xvhere it loses itself in th light reflected firona the almost vwholly illulainated diskSof our earth amounts to no razore $ A 2 oMr. SCHE0ETER S Obsevationsthan an-arc of 2° , of the cwircumference of the tnoon, andl if it be hence flenzonstrable that its greatest dilatation does barely amount to S° 8' and the perp-endicular heighe of that part. of the lower more condesed stratun of its atnosphere, which is capable of reflecting the solar rays, and of producing some other, perhaps more remarkab}e, obscurities in the stars seenthrough it, does not exceed 5300 Paris ke) -and 11ence cannot reach above one second of a degree abolre the litnb of the moon; \\? nced -not nTonder that so sxmall a tuagt-aitude, which loses itself in the inequalities of the litnb, ma2ay parts of which are knov:Yn to be considerably m:ountainotls, slaould uot beconae sensible, especially at the approach of a body of so large a diameter as Jupiters alld wllel so sanall a magnifying pcower is appliedv And tllus luay I, with cozfidence, assert a perfect coircidellceI)etween this and ny manJr otller Obla servationse Tlle appe;arazace, fig. , >Zhera Jupiter at the emersion, the objects beirlg particularly sharp and distinct came forth from behilld themoon vvthich nosv covered no more than one quarter of its d:iatu-eter, was truly splendid arld satisfactory; andvI must here particularly luention the circumstance, that the part of the nlOOn'S dark hetnisphere, between its bright terminatillg edge m n arud its outward limb, borderillg upon tlle emerging planet op) was particularly opake, alld hellce produced a very strikig effect. I omit entering-here upon any farther considerations, and shall conclude witll observing that, afXter the occultation was cotnpletely en(led, the luminous spot I hadl at 12h r ! so far advanced in its parallel d e as to have reached to within 6n or at -most ^, of its xvhole length9 of the westerrl limbv And that ffL e f.. t..r -tif/& / ' Z a'= -_ b (,(( / f ' '0 ;18 0 J/ X ;lS Ii -o 6. b a.so s _ c ffiorth > 6M_, t\ 4 *< ,z 5 S.rs S S, b a f\ 1' 2 / f a ,__-:< ....... _.,,,_ . ;>>A' . A aVCt::Cy C ]|Nozth, :Moorhw X GcT. .hc'Zor Zmns MD C C XC lI . f taZ VII p . 3 6o . (XW#, <y , c // ,' / h / X /0. ' 0 _ gAK e Jt moZen=g eoXHe o > . __ 2.> Ar-£r L CTv-WF -PAc 70 Zrandw MDC C XC II . Cab . VNl .p . 3 60 .c// . 2. , J _ r A _: t i L 27> = }: _LS --|cs fi 47 e3 . Ora ..HsfJfe. e . -<C' . l 3' 4 g t;\ UK s 'Si1 o s e4R ? X > , t Qco 9 on the Atmostbere of tbe Moon ,6s on the 28th of March, lSve days after a new moon, I observed an occultation of a very distinct, thollgh telescopic star, by the dark hemisphere of the moon, in which, agreeably to the above observation, not the least gradual diminutioll of light, or indistinctness could be perceived, the star being seen to vanish on a sudden. Li3ienthal, Apr;l IO, I, 9t. 