[105] XI. Observations on the total (with Duration) and annular Eclipse of the Sun, taken on the 24th of June, 1778, on Board the Espagne, being the Admiral's Ship of the Fleet of New Spain, in the Passage from the Azores towards Cape St. Vincent's. By Don Antonio Ulloa, F. R. S. Commander of the said Squadron; communicated by Samuel Horsley, LL.D. F. R. S. Read December 24, 1778. T H E public prints will have given notice of my arrival at this port, with the fleet under my command, on the 29th of June last. A very favourable, though Observations de l'Eclipse du Soleil totale avec Retension et Annulaire faites le 24e Juin 1778; sur le Vaisseau l'Espagne Commandant l'Escadre de la Flotte de la Nouvelle Espagne, en faisant le trajet des Isles Terceres vers le Cap St. Vincent. Par Don Antonio de Ulloa chef d'Escadre et Commandant General de la ditte Flotte, Membre de la Societe Royale de Londres. O N aura appris par les nouvelles publiques, que je suis rentre dans ce port le 29e du mois passe avec la flotte de la Nouvelle Espagne sous mon commandement. Le trajet dans mon retour, qui a ete long mais tres heureux, m'a ete favoV O L. LXIX. P rable 106 Don ULLOA'S Observations though long, passage gave me the opportunity of observing at sea the eclipse of the Sun, which was accompanied by a phenomenon observed by few astronomers, and which I myself saw for the first time; to wit, the luminous Annulus which surrounds the disk of the Moon: the following is a description of this appearance, one of the most beautiful that can be conceived. The motion of the ship prevented our observing the beginning of the eclipse, by reason of the difficulty there was in keeping the Solar image and a part of that of the Moon within the field of the telescope; the object vanished every instant, and it was not till after several fruitless trials that I could get it again. Besides this, the arms grew tired of holding up the telescope and smoaked glass, which could not be rested upon any thing from the necessity there was of moving the telescope in a contrary rable pour observer en mer l'Eclipse du soleil accompagnee d'un phenomene tres particulier que j'ai vu, pour la premiere fois et que peu d' astronomes, ont observe, jusqu' a present: c'est l'anneau lumineux autour du disque de la lune, phenomene des plus frapans et des plus beau a la vue; en voici la description: Le mouvement du vaisseau ne permit pas d'observer le commencement de l'eclipse, par la difficulte de conserver le corps solaire et une partie de celui de la Lune dans le champ de la Lunette; l'objet m'echapoit a tout moment, et je ne le ratrapois qu'apres bien des recherches. Outre cela, les bras se fatiguoient a soutenir en l'air la lunette et le verre obscur, qu'on ne pouvoit apuyer, parce qu'il falloit on an Eclipse of the Sun. 107 trary direction to that of the ship. I had no other calculations but those to be met with in the Connoissance des Tems, which I did not find very exact, owing either to some error in the calculations themselves, or to the longitude of the ship's place not having been accurately determined in that book: I found a pretty sensible difference in the hour set down for the beginning of the eclipse. I observed the total obscurity of the Sun's disk at 44 minutes past three, the beginning of the emersion at 48 minutes after three, the end of the eclipse at 48 minutes after four; consequently, the middle of it must have been at 46 minutes after three, or thereabouts: the total obscurity lasted four minutes, a sufficient time for observing the ring which was formed round the Moon. Five falloit faire avec la Lunette un mouvement contraire a ~ du vaisseau. Je n'avois d'autres calculs que celui de la Connoissance des Tems que je ne trouvois pas de la derniere precision, soit qu'il se trouve quelque erreur dans le calcul, soit que la longitude estimee du lieu ou le vaisseau setrouvoit ne fusse pas la veritable. Je trouvois une difference assez sensible sur l'heure indiquee pour son commencement; J'observai la totale obscurite du disque du Soleil a 3 heures 44 min., le commencement de l'emersion a 3 h. 48 m. la fin de l'eclipse a 4 h. 48 m. par consequent le milieu devoit etre a 3 h. 46 m. ou environ. La duree de l'eclipse totale du Soleil fut de 4 minutes, intervale suffisant pour observer l'anneau qui se forma autour de la Lune. P 2 5 ou 108 Don ULLOA'S Observations Five or six seconds after the immersion we began to observe round the Moon a very brilliant circle of light, which seemed to have a rapid circular motion something similar to that of a rocket turning about its center. This light became livelier and more dazzling in proportion as the center of the Moon approached to that of the Sun, and about the middle of the eclipse it was of the breadth of about a sixth of the Moon's diameter. Out of this luminous circle there issued forth rays of light, which reached to the distance of a diameter of the Moon, sometimes more, sometimes less, which made me think that they were parts of a weaker light which were reflected in an atmosphere more subtle than that in which the ring was formed. When the centers of the two planets began to separate, the diminution began, and took 5 ou 6 secondes apres que l'immersion eut ete faite on commenca a decouvrir autour de la Lune un cercle de lumiere tres brillant qui sembloit avoir un mouvement rapide circulaire, semblable a celui d'un artifice embrase mis en jeu sur son centre. Cette lumiere devint plus vive et plus eblouissante a mesure que le centre de la Lune aprochoit de celui du Soleil; et dans le temps que l'eclipse fut a son milieu elle etoit large de deux doigs du diametre de la Lune, ou comme la sixieme partie du dit diametre. De ce cercle lumineux partoient des rayons de lumiere de toute sa circomference, perceptibles jusqu' a la distance d'un diametre de la Lune; tantot plus, tantot moins, ce qui me fit penser que cetoit des parties de lumiere plus foibles qui s'imprimoient dans un atmosphere plus subtil que celui ou etoit forme l'anneau. Lorsque les centres des deux planetes commencerent a s'ecarter, la diminution commenca et se fit graduellement dans le meme on an Eclipse of the Sun. 109 took place gradually in the same order which had been observed at its beginning and during the progress of it. It disappeared entirely four or five seconds before the emersion. The colour of the light was not the same every where; the part immediately joining the disk of the Moon was of a reddish cast, from thence it changed towards a pale yellow, which about the middle began to clear till, at the external extremity, it ended in an almost entire white. It was equally brilliant throughout, and the whirling motion, common to all the parts of it, seemed to change the form and position of the rays which appeared to the eye sometimes larger, sometimes shorter, at the same time that there was no change either in the colours of the ring themselves, or in the arrangement of them, both which continued as I have described them. For meme ordre qui s'etoit observe dans son commencement et ses progres: il disparut entierement 4 ou 5 secondes avant l'emersion. La couleur de la lumiere n'etoit pas la meme partout: la partie immediate au disque de la Lune etoit couleur rougeatre, ensuite elle tiroit sur le jaune pale; et depuis le milieu jusqu'a l'extremite exterieure cette couleur jaune s'eclaircissoit insensiblement jusqu'a tirer en fin tout a fait sur le blanc. Elle etoit egalement brillante partout; et son mouvement de tourbillon, commun a toutes ses parties paroissoit changer la forme et la position des rayons en les presentant a la vue, tantot plus courts, tantot plus longs, sans cependant occasionner de changement dans les couleurs de l'anneau et leur arrangement qui restoit le meme que ie viens de detailler. Quatre 110 Don ULLOA'S Observations For four or five seconds before the appearance of the shining ring, and during as many after it had disappeared, one could see the stars of the first and second magnitude as at the entrance of the night; but when it was in its greatest degree of brilliancy, only those of the first magnitude could be discovered. The darkness was such, that persons who were asleep, and happened to wake, thought that they had slept the whole evening, and only waked when the night was pretty far advanced. The fowls, birds, and other animals on board took their usual position for sleeping as if it had been night. Before the edge of the Sun's disk emerged from that of the Moon, there was discovered near that of the latter a very small point of that of the Sun; it was imperceptible to the naked eye, but having looked at it with Quatre ou cinq secondes avant de voir paroitre l'anneau brillant, et autant apres sa supression l'on vit, comme a l'entree de la nuit, les etoiles de la 1ere et de la 2de grandeur; mais lors qu'il etoit dans son brillant on ne voyoit que celles de la 1ere. L'obscurite fut au point que des personnes qui dormoient et qui s'eveillerent crurent a leur grand etonnement d'avoir dormi toute la soiree et de ne s'etre eveillees qu' assez avant dans la nuit. Les poules, les oiseaux et les autres animaux prirent leur position ordinaire pour dormir comme si c'eut ete la nuit. Avant que le bord du disque du Soleil parut par celui de la Lune, on decouvrit pres de celleci un tres petit point de celui du Soleil imperceptible a la vue; mais l'ayant distingue par le secours de la lunette, je l'estimai d'abord de la grandeur on an Eclipse of the Sun. 111 with the glass I estimated it at first to be about the magnitude of a star of the fourth order; after which it seemed to increase to that of one of the third. Its first appearance, to wit, that before the edge of the Sun emerged from that of the Moon, lasted about a minute and a quarter, the luminous circle was still visible though already much weaker than it had been. The reddish colour of the ring towards the Lunar disk, its deep yellow towards the middle, its clear and very pale yellow at the external extremity, its uniform circumference, and the rays issuing from it to the distance taken notice of above, convince me that the whole is the effect of the Lunar atmosphere, which is of a substance different from that of the earth, that is, more transparent, more homogeneous, more uniform, and fitter grandeur d'une etoile de la 4e classe; et ensuite il me parut augmenter jusqu'a la grandeur de celles de la 3e. Sa premiere apparition, c'est a dire avant que le bord du Soleil parut par celui de la Lune, fut de la duree d'environ une minute et un quart: le cercle lumineux subsistoit encore quoique deja affoibli. La couleur rougeatre de l'anneau proche du disque de la Lune, jaunatre comme couleur d'or vers le milieu, jaune clair et tres affoibli vers sa partie exterieure; sa circonference egale, et les rayons qui partent de cet anneau a la distance ditte ci dessus persuadent que le tout est l'effet de l'atmosphere de la Lune, laquelle est de matiere differente de celle de la terre; plus transparente, plus nette, plus egale et plus propre a reflechir les rayons de lumiere que celle ci; autrement, l'anneau n'auroit pas ete egalement clair, brillant et colore dans la circonference entiere du disque de la lune. On ne peut pas dire que cet anneau lumineux soit 7 l'effet 112 Don ULLOA'S Observations ter for reflecting the rays of light, since otherwise the ring would not have been equally clear, shining, and coloured throughout the whole circumference of the Lunar disk. It cannot be said, that this luminous ring is the effect of the rays of the Sun reflected by the atmosphere of the earth, because the apparent diameter of the Sun is smaller than that of the Moon, whose disk entirely hid that of the Sun. Besides, if the luminous circle had been made by the atmosphere of the earth, its colours would have been like those of the rainbow, and it would have appeared fixed without motion, instead of which, that which was seen is the same as that which is seen by the naked eye upon the Sun when it is just above the horizon a little after Sun-rise or before Sun-set, so that one may conclude, that this luminous circle is a part of the disk of the Sun seen after refraction through the atmosphere of the Moon. The l'effet des rayons du Soleil reflechis sur l'atmosphere de la Terre, puisque le diametre apparent du Soleil est plus petit que celui de la Lune, dont le disque cachoit entierement a nos regard ou a ceux du globe terrestre celui du Soleil. D'ailleurs, si cetoit sur l'atmosphere de la Terre que le cercle lumineux fut forme, ce cercle auroit ete semblable dans ses couleurs a l'arc-en-ciel, et il auroit paru fixe sans mouvement; au lieu que celui qui a ete apercu est le meme qu'on distingue dans le Soleil en le regardant directement avec la simple vue sur l'horizon peu apres son lever ou un peu avant son coucher: ensorte qu'on peut conclure que ce cercle lumineux est une partie du disque du Soleil vu par refraction sur l'atmosphere de la Lune. 1 Le on an Eclipse of the Sun. 113 The point of the Sun's disk, which was seen before its limb began to emerge from that of the Moon, is a very extraordinary phenomenon which I was not acquainted with before. In order to obviate all doubts which might arise about it, I must mention that we were three observers, Don JOACHIN D'ARANDA, Lieutenant WINTUYSEN, and I. Mr. D'ARANDA, who was looking at the eclipse through a two-foot telescope about the end of the total obscurity, was the first who perceived it. He, not knowing what it was, told me, that the total obscurity drew near an end, because he discovered a small point of the Sun, like a star, on the edge of the Moon. I looked immediately with the naked eye, and saw nothing. I then took out a spy glass, with which I saw as much. At length I took out my telescope of two feet and a half, and did discover with that a red luminous point so near the Le point du disque du Soleil, vu avant que son limbe eusse commence a paroitre par celui de la Lune, est un phenomene tres particulier et dont je n'avois pas connoissance. Pour prevenir les doutes qui peuvent se lever je dois dire que nous etions trois personnes a observer l'eclipse: M. M. Don JOACHIN DE ARANDA Cap. de fregate de l'armee, et pilotte major de la flotte; Don P. WINTUISEN lieutenant de vaisseau et major de la ditte flotte, et moi. Mr. D'ARANDA, en regardant l'eclipse vers la fin de la totale obscurite avec sa lunette de deux pieds, fut celui qui l'apercut le premier: Il me dit, ne sachant ce que c'etoit, que la totale obscurite etoit pres de finir, parce qu'il voyoit un petit point du Soleil sur le bord de la Lune semblable a une etoile. Je regardai d'abord avec la vue, VOL. LXIX. Q et 114 Don ULLOA'S Observations the edge of the Moon, that it left me no doubts of its belonging to the body of the Sun. I, at that time, estimated it to be about the size of a star of the third magnitude; and imagine, that when Mr. D'ARANDA discovered it, it must have been like one of the fourth. This point gradually increased, and when it became of the bigness of a star of the second magnitude, the edge of the Sun emerged from that of the Moon. The interval between the first discovery of this point and the beginning of the emersion was about a minute and a quarter. This apparition of the Sun, before the beginning of the emersion, can only have taken place through some crevice or inequality on the limb of the Moon, not perceivable at the full Moon, by reason of the reflected rays which cross each other, and confuse it; whereas at the time of the eclipse, et je n' apercu rien: Je tirai une lorgnette de la poche et je n'en vis pas d'avantage; enfin je pris ma Lunette de 21/2 pieds avec laquelle je decouvris effectivement un point rouge et lumineux tres proche du bord de la Lune qui ne me laissa aucun doute que ce ne fut le corps du Soleil. Je l'estimai pour lors comme une etoile de la 3e grandeur, et je presume que lors que M. D' ARANDA la decouvrit, elle pouvoit paroitre comme une etoile de la 4e grandeur. Ce point grandit successivement; et lorqu'il pouvoit etre juge comme une etoile de la 2e grandeur le bord du Soleil parut par celui de la Lune. L'intervale qu'il y eut entre la 1ere vision de ce point et le commencement de l'emersion fut d'une minute et un quart. Cette apparition du Soleil avant le commencement de l'emersion ne peut avoir eu lieu qu'a travers de quelque fente ou inegalite qui se trouve sur le limbe de la Lune, et qui est imperceptible lors du plenilune a cause des rayons reflechis qui se croisent et confondent la ditte ouyerrture; au lieu que dans le tems on an Eclipse of the Sun. 115 eclipse, the Moon's body being entirely obscured, the light of the Sun is behind, and comes through the smallest openings in the disk without any confusion. The time elapsed between the first appearance of the Sun's body through the aperture of the limb of the Moon and the appearance of the limb of the Sun out of that of the Moon will serve to determine the depth of the said chink, aperture, or inequality, which is equal to the height of the eminencies which form it. The luminous point was towards the North-west part of the Moon's disk, a little more to the North than the part of its limb through which that of the Sun appeared at the beginning of the emersion; and it is remarkable, that no other luminous speck was perceived in the disk besides this. This aperture is therefore the only one in that part of the disk through which the emersion was to tems de l'eclipse le corps de la Lune se trouvant entierement obscurci, la lumiere du Soleil se trouve par derriere et perce sans confusion par les plus petites ouvertures du disque de cet astre. Le tems qui s'est ecoule depuis la premiere apparition du corps du Soleil par l'ouverture du limbe de la Lune jusqu'a l'apparition du limbe du Soleil par celui de la Lune servira a determiner la profondeur de la ditte sente, ouverture, ou inegalite qui est egale a la hauteur des eminences qui la forment. Le dit point lumineux etoit a la partie du Nord-Ouest du disque de la Lune, un peu plus au nord de l'endroit de son limbe par ou se fit voir celui du Soleil au commencement de l'emersion; et il est a remarquer qu'on n'apercut pas d'autre, point lumineux dans le disque de la Lune que celui la: ainsi cette ouverture est Q 2 unique 116 Don ULLOA'S Observations to begin; from whence one may be certain, that throughout the fourth part of the Moon's circumference, reaching from North to West, there is not any perceptible breaks in its limb besides that which was then observed. There can be no doubt but that the luminous speck which appeared through the aperture was part of the Sun's body; this is demonstrated, by the red fiery colour (the same as that which is seen when this luminary is looked at through a smoaked glass) by its gradual increase, in proportion as the limb of the Sun came near that of the Moon, and in short by the colour, which at its emerging was just the same as that which had been seen through the opening. It remains to be mentioned, that on the 24th day of July, the day on which I made the above observation unique dans la partie du disque par ou devoit commencer l'emersion, et on peut assurer que dans la quatrieme partie de la circonference de la Lune, il n'y a pas dans son Limbe, depuis le Nord jusqu'a l'ouest d'autres sentes perceptibles que celle qui fut observee. Il n'y a point de doute que le point lumineux qui parut a travers l'ouverture ne fut le corps du Soleil; Cela est demontre par la couleur de feu tres rouge, la meme qui se voit quand on regarde cet Astre a travers d'un verre obscurci, par la gradation qui eut lieu dans son accroissement a mesure que le Limbe du Soleil aprochoit de celui de la Lune, et enfin, par la couleur du Soleil, qui lors qu'il deborda fut la meme que celle qui s'etoit vue a travers de l'ouverture. Il me reste a dire que le 24e Juin, jour que je fis cette observation a bord du Vaisseau 5 on an Eclipse of the Sun. 117 vation on board the Espagne, the aforesaid ship's latitude was 37~ 14~ North, measured the same day; that since noon it had sailed direct East; that from the end of the eclipse to its being in the meridian of Cape St. Vincent it had sailed 301 sea miles East, making 100 sea leagues, reckoning 20 leagues to a degree, remains to be known the difference of meridians of the said Cape and the meridian of the different observatories of the capital cities of Europe, in order to determine the part of the sea in which the observation was made relatively to the observatories. The solar spots were seen very distinctly both before and after the eclipse; there were six of them in all: two very near each other on the Eastern part of the disk; two towards the middle of the disk, likewise very near one another; Vaisseau l'Espagne commandant l'escadre de la flotte de Vera Cruz, ce ~ etoit par 37 degres 14 minutes de Latitude Septentrionale, observee le meme jour; que depuis le Midy il avoit fait route a l'est directement; que depuis la fin de l'Eclipse jusqu'a etre nord sud avec le Cap St. Vincent il a navigue a l'est 301 milles maritimes qui font 100 1/3 lieues maritimes de 20 au degre; reste a savoir la difference de Meridien entre le dit Cap et les different Observatoires des villes capitales de l'Europe, pour determiner l'endroit a la mer ou l'observation fut faite relativement aux dits Observatoires. Les taches du Soleil furent vues tres distinctement avant et apres l'Eclipse; elles etoient au nombre de six: deux a la partie de l'est du disque peu distantes l'une de l' autre: deux vers le milieu du disque auffi assez pres l'une de l'autre: et 118 Don ULLOA'S Observations another; and two towards the North, verging towards the North-west. The corrected altitude of the center of the Sun above the horizon, taken at the moment the eclipse ended, was 36~ 31~. The atmosphere was very clear; the wind WNW, and not very strong. No clouds were visible, as is often the case at the sea, nor were there any till near six, when there arose some just above the horizon. The luminous ring made so strong an impression on me, as well from the beauty and brightness of its colour as from its rapid and uniform circular motion that I could neither reckon the stars visible in each interval from the total obscurity to the end of the eclipse, nor make several other observations on the colour and vivacity of their light. et deux enfin vers la partie du Nord un peu vers Nordouest. La hauteur corrigee du centre du Soleil sur l'horizon, prise au moment que l'Eclipse finit etoit 36 degres 31 m. L'atmosphere etoit tres net et l'air de l'Ouest Nord-Ouest de moyenne force; on ne voyoit aucun nuage comme cela arrive souvent en mer; ce ne fut que vers les six heures qu'il s'en forma quelques uns sur l'horizon. L'anneau lumineux me fit une impression si agreable tant par la beaute et l'eclat de sa couleur que par son mouvement circulaire unifoorme et rapide que je ne pus ni compter les etoiles visibles dans chaque intervale depuis la totale obcurite jusqu'a la fin, ni faire d'autres observations sur la couleur et la vivacite de leur lumiere: Je m'attachai uniquement a l'anneau et ensuite au point lumineux on an Eclipse of the Sun. 119 light. All I attended to was, first, the ring, and then the luminous speck which appeared through the disk of the Sun. These made the same impression on all who observed with me. It is not easy to make celestial observations at sea with the same precision and delicacy as they are made at land, on account of the motion of the ship, and want of convenience to use the instruments. It would have been difficult (even if we had a Micrometer) to have measured either the breadth of the ring, in order to see if it was equal every where, or the distance between the luminous speck seen on the disk of the Moon and its limb. I regret, however, exceedingly not having been able to make observations which would have been of such use in astronomy. neux du Soleil au travers du disque de la Lune. Ce ravissement produisit le meme effet sur ceux qui observoient avec moi. Il n'est pas facile de faire en mer des Observations Celestes avec autant de precision et de delicatesse qu'on les fait a terre, a cause du mouvement du vaisseau et de la gene a se servir des instrumens. Il auroit ete difficile, quand meme on anroit ete pourvu d'un Micrometre, de mesurer la largeur de l'anneau pour examiner s'il etoit egal partout, comme aussi la distance du point lumineux vu sur le disque de la Lune jusqu'a son limbe. J'ai bien du regret de n'avoir pu faire ces observations qui auroient ete d'un grand avantage pour la Phisique des astres. 