XXIV. A Letter from Mr. John Martyn, F.R.S. Prof. Botan. Cantab. to John Machin, Esq; Secr. R. S. and Prof. Astron. Gresham. concerning an Aurora Australis, seen March 18. 1738-9. at Chelsea, near London. S I R, I Now trouble you with a rude Account of the Aurora Australis, or what other Name you chuse to call it by, which was mentioned at the Society last Thursday. Sunday, March 18. 17~8-9. at half an Hour past Eight, being informed, That there was a great Fire towards London, I made haste towards an upper Window that looked to the North North-east: I found an extraordinary Redness in the Air, but of too determined 7 [841] termined a Figure to arise from the burning of a House: A broad red Band extended itself to the Northward of the East; in the Middle of which I very plainly saw Arcturus, then about 250 high; and its Northern Edge touched Cor Caroli. It seemed to be fixed and permanent; not radiating, or fading, as in a common Aurora Borealis. This red Band, or Arch, was bounded on the North by Streams of a greenish Blue, in the same Direction; the most Northern Edge of which touched the Star marked n in the Tip of the Tail of Ursa Major. After I had considered this Phaenomenon for some little time, ~ retired into my Garden, where I saw a great Brightness almost in the Zenith, but declining to the South-west; which I found to be a Centre, from which many luminous Radii, of which the red Band was much the most considerable, proceeded. This Crown, or Centre, seemed, at that time, as near as I could judge, about the Place of Cancer; for it effaced all the neighbouring Stars, and I could but just see two Stars, which I take to be those in the Heads of the Twins; when the Brightness was most faded: It would sometimes almost disappear for near a Minute, and then kindle again, and dart Rays on all Sides; but those to the West and North were short, pale, and soon disappeared. Those which shot Southward, were of a firy Red; and the whole Southern Part of the Atmosphere was tinged with a red Brightness, which did not however reach quite down to the Horizon; for, to the South-west, where my Prospect was least confined, I could see Sirius, then about 150 high beyond the red Light. The Houses opposite to mine hindered me from seeing, how far to the East and North-east the [842] the red and blue Rays extended. All this while, the North and North-west Parts of the Heavens seemed dark, by reason of the great Brightness in the East and South: It was very clear however, and the Stars visible. About Nine, the red Band had covered the Tail of Ursa major, having moved considerably towards the North, the Centre continuing in the same Place; and by degrees it faded so as not to be distinguishable from the common Redness which was spread over so considerable a Part of the Heavens. About Ten I went to the River-side, where I had a large Prospect to the South-east; and found all that Part covered with a dusky Red, quite down to the Horizon. There were afterwards some faint Rays darted, sometimes from the Centre of this Phaenomenon, which has the Appearance of a common Aurora Borealis. If you can gather any thing material from this Description, it will be a Pleasure to, S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, John Martyn. XXV. Part 