A G F C B D E K H I Philos: Transact: No: 264: P L M N O [595] IV. A Relation of the bad condition of the Mountains about the Tungarouse and Batavian Rivers, having their source from thence, occasioned by the Earthquake between the 4th and 5th of January, 1699. Drawn up from the Account given by the Tommagon Porbo Nata, (who hath been there) and sent to the Burgermaster Witsen, who communicated it to the R. Society, of which he is a Member. THat the great Batavia River from above Tangala Warna, being a place from whence the said River receiveth the greatest part of its water, is stopt up, or covered with Earth from the faln Hills, till beyond the Hill Tsyouspokitsiil; so that the place where the River had its course formerly, was not to be seen. That far beyond the Hill Tsyouspokitsjil, towards Batavia, the Water comes forth again from under the Earth, which is sunk down, but thick and muddy, passing over and thorow the Trees, wherewith the River formerly was stopt up. That the Trees lying in the River are of a special bigness, and so close packt together, that it is impossible to conceive how they came so. That from the Mountains scituated near the beginning of the Batavian River, called by the Javanians Songsy-tsialiwong, seven Hills are sunk down, viz. 5 on this side, and 2 on the other. But that the Mount, B b b b b from [596] from whence the River hath also its source, above Tabaga Warma, within the Mountains Terbackti, are not sunk down, nor have received any damage. That the Tangarang River, called by the Natives Songhy Sedany, is also stopt up, and covered with Earth, from the Hill and Branch Salack to the River Antum, and from thence to Tangaram, being filled up with Trees, but not in such a great quantity, nor so close together, as in the Batavian River. That on this side the Tangaran River, 9 are sunk down by the Earthquake, and that 7 Branches, that had formerly their issue in the River Tangaran, are also covered with Earth; but that 3 other Hills, lying also on this side of the same River, and called Minjan, Dauw and Kasfichi, had not sustained any damage, whereby the Branches Autan and Kaniki, the latter into the first branch, and the first into the River Tangaran, have kept their course. And that the Hill Oudjong teboe, being called also Sedani, from whence the Tangaran River had its source, is not sunk down or hurted. It is also observed in the Tangaran River, at the place where it is stopt up with Trees, that the descending Water being thick and muddy, went backward with a motion not unlike the Waves of the Sea, when moved by a Tempest. That the high Lands between the Batavian and Tangaran Rivers, behind the old Court of the Jaccatra Kings, called Pakkowang, having been a great Wood, is changed after the Earthquake into a great and open Field, wholly destitute of Trees, the surface of the Ground being covered with a fine red clay, such as the Masons use here; which in some places was as hard that it could eudure the treading and going upon it, and in other places men did sink above a foot into it. That at the place of the old Court called Packowang, situated between the Batavian and Tan[597] angaran Rivers, no other damages hath been seen, han that the Land thereabouts hath been rent and divided asunder with great clefts more than a foot wide: but that the River Tsicome, proceeding from a Pit or Well in the aforesaid Court of Packowang, and running a great way under ground, and then coming forth again, taking its course towards Anke, had not received any harm, but kept its course uninterrupted. That the Tommagon Porbo Nata in his going towards the Mountains, had heard a Noise like unto Thunder; and fearing that a sinking down of the Ground, or an eruption of Water would follow, he had stood still with those that were about him, and seen afterwards that the Earth from the top of the Mountains sunk down; and that hearing no further noise, he went on his journey, having in going and coming back spent nineteen days by the way, and felt forty times an Earthquake: And that since his return from the Mountains, he had felt the like shakings two hundred and eight times. Explication of the Figure. A The top of the Mountain Pangaranhoe, or Bleun Mountain just ZO and O. B The River Silember not damaged. C The great River not damaged. D OEd Songs Toeboe not damaged E The River Sackabanos hath dragged and swept away all the Mud, Sand and Trees into the River of Batavia, and cast the Trees coming down by its rapidity on both sides of the Batavia River about 55, and on some places 85 yards. The upper part of the River is very clear, but from the River Sockabanos downwards, a great quantity of Trees and Earth hath been cast up on both sides, and where the waB b b b b 2 ter [598] ter hath its course, it is likewise clear, unless in some places betwixt the Rocks or Stones, may remain half a foot of Sand. F The River Cantack much damaged. G The River Tsidanii much damaged. H The River Zyessecq not damaged. I The River of Batavia. K Pakoean. L The River Zysalack much damaged. M The River Zypinang-gading much damaged. N The River Ziapols much endamaged on this side its Spring. O The River of Tangaran. P Top of the Mountain Salack just South. 