Fig. 2. p. 556. A I F B A A G A D B C E B b D A A I H J.Myande se. X. The Description of an Instrument for reducing a dislocated Shoulder; invented by Mr. John Freke, Surgeon of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and F. R. S. G E N T L E M E N, I Should not have presented this to you, but to shew in how small a Compass the whole Power which can be made use of in reducing a dislocated Shoulder can be contracted. If therefore a Machine for this Purpose be not portable, it matters but little to an afflicted Patient Ten Miles off, how good an Instrument is out of his Reach. This Read June 23. 1743. [557] This Machine (see T A B. IV. Fig. 2.) which consists of Two Boxes A, joined at the Ends by Two Hinges, contains, when folded together, every thing that can possibly be wanted in the Operation before-mentioned; and it may so easily be made use of, without the Assistance of any other Operator than the Surgeon employed, that I may venture to affirm, a Patient may be set down, the Instrument applied, and the Shoulder reduced, in One Minute, ordinarily speaking. The Length of this Instrument, when shut up, is One Foot Eight Inches, its Breadth Nine Inches, and Thickness Three Inches and a Quarter. When it is opened, it is kept so by Two Hooks fixed on the Backside of it; and when one End of it stands on the Ground, the other stands high enough to become a Fulcrum, or Support of a Lever B B, which is fixed on a Roller b, by a large Wood Screw, which turning sideways as well as with the Rowler, it obtains a circumrotatory Motion, so that it will serve to reduce a Luxation either backward, forward, or downward. The Roller on which the Lever is fixed, is just the Diameter of the Depth of one of the Boxes, into which are driven Two Iron Pins, the Ends of which are received by the Two Sides of the Box, which are an Inch thick. The Lever is Two Foot Four Inches, and is cut off and joined again by Two Hinges C, to fold up so as to be contained in the Boxes. On the Backside of it is a Hook, to keep it strait; the other End of it is to hang over the Roller about an Inch and half, which is to be excavated and covered with Buff Leather, for the [558] the more easy Reception of the Head of the Os humeri. Two Iron Cheeks D D are screwed on each Side of the Lever, to receive through them an Iron Roller E, which has Two Holes through it, to receive Two Cords coming from a Brace F, fixed on the lower Head of the Os humeri; for on no other Part of the Arm above the Cubit can a Bandage for this Purpose be useful; for, if the Surgeon applies it on the muscular Part of the Arm, it never fails slipping down to the Joint, before you can extend the Limb. The Iron Roller has a square End, on which is fixed a Wheel G, within the Cheek, notched round, which works as a Rotchet on a Spring Ketch underneath the Lever, by which it is stopped, as you wind it with a Winch; and may at Pleasure be let loose, as there shall be Occasion for it, by discharging the Ketch. I come now to describe the Brace F, which, compared with common Bandages, is of more Consequence than can easily be imagined by unexperienced Persons. It consists of a large Piece of Buff Leather, big enough to embrace the Arm, sewed on Two Pieces of strong Iron curved Plates, riveted together, one of them having an Eye at each End, to fasten Two Cords in; the other is bent at the Ends into Two Hooks, which are to receive the Cords, after they have crossed over the Arm above. In order to keep the Patient steady in his Chair from coming forward, or letting the Scapula rise up, on depressing the Lever, after the Limb is drawn forward by the Winch, there must be fixed over the Shoulder a Girth with Two Hooks at the Ends of it, long [559] long enough to reach to the Ground on the other Side, where it must be hooked into a Ring I, to be screwed into the Floor, for that Purpose. 