44 S T A T U T E S O F C H A P T E R XIV. Of the Books and Papers of the Society. I. THERE shall be had and kept a Book, called the Charter-book, wherein shall be fairly written the copy of the Charters, all his Majesty's grants on the behalf of the Society, and the obligation, to be subscribed by the Fellows of the Society in their own hand-writing. II. There shall be had and kept a Book, called the Statutebook, wherein shall be fairly written all the Laws, Statutes, and Constitutions made, or to be made, concerning the government and regulating of the Society or Council; and also a Register of the Fellows of the Society, with the times of their Election and Admission. III. There shall be had and kept Journal-books for the Society and Council; wherein shall be entered all the minutes, orders, and the business of the Society and Council at their respective meetings. IV. No T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 45 IV. No Fellow shall give any copy or transcript of any matter contained in the Journals, or other Books of the Society, to any one that is not a Member thereof; nor communicate the same to any such person to be transcribed, without particular leave obtained of the Council; except the said matter were originally brought in, or communicated by himself: but any Fellow of the Society may, at proper times, and in the Society's House, have the liberty of inspecting any article in the Journal-books of the Society. V. The original copy of every Paper read at the Society shall be considered as the property of the Society, if there be no previous engagement with its Author to the contrary: but any Author may have a copy of his own papers by leave of the Council. VI. All the papers read at the Society in the course of each year, not withdrawn by leave of the Council, shall be delivered to the Committee of Papers at their annual meeting; and shall be preserved in Guard-books, for future inspection; and shall never be lent out of the Society's House without Order of the Council. VII. Fellows of the Society may, between the hour of eleven in the forenoon and two in the afternoon, on the Tuesdays and Thursdays during the meetings of the Society, and on Thursdays during the recesses of the Society, inspect one or more of the printed Books in the Society's Library; 46 S T A T U T E S O F Library; or of the Manuscript Books, in the presence of the Librarian: or any Fellow may, by leave obtained of the Society at an ordinary meeting, or of the Council, have the loan of any of the printed Books in the Library, not exceeding four volumes at a time, for six weeks, by giving his note, if printed Books, for the due return of them in the condition he received them; or if Manuscripts, his bond in the penalty of ~ 50. for each, for its safe return in as perfect state as when delivered to him. C H A P