III. A true and exact Relation of the dismal and surprising Effects of a terrible and unusual Clap of Thunder with Lightning, that fell upon the Trumbull-Galley, on Thursday the 26th Day of November, 1696. Communicated in a Letter unto Mr. W. Griffith, M. A. by Mr. Robert Mawgridge, KettleDrummer unto his Majesty, and then Chirurgeon of the said Galley. I Here give you a faithful Account of a sad and astonishing Accident, that happened unto our Galley by Lightning and Thunder. For as we lay at Anchor at Smirna, about One of the Clock in the Morning, upon the 26th Day of November, 1696. She was staved in several Places: The Bulk-Head of her Round House was staved all to Pieces into the Captain's cabbin, and hurt his Shoulder. Her Mizen Mast was staved all to Pieces; and the Spindle in the Head of the Mast was melted at both Ends with the Lightning. The MainTop-Sail-Yard was lash'd in the Top; yet notwithstanding, the Yard was thrown out, and stuck in our Awning right an End. The Quarter-master (one John Page) was on the Deck by the Mizen-Mast, and one John Allen; who were Both struck down flat thereon with the Lightning: Page had one Side of him stupified for Three Days; but, under God, I recovered him in Six Days. Allen was very well, when his Fright was over; but (783) but it was the next Day first. At the same time I was in my Cabbin between my Bed and Blanket, at my Devotion, and shall never forget the Almighty God for his great Mercy unto me at that time: For the Lightning did strike the Plank for Six Foot off of the out side of the Galley all to Pieces, and the Timber was like a Brush; and Three Planks of the Ceiling were started, whereof Two Foot and Seven Inches was staved out from the rest within Ten Inches of my Head. My Velvet Cap was hanging on a Nail in the same Piece of Ceiling; the Inside whereof, next unto the Lightning, had not one Stich amiss, but the Outside had all the Seams burst to Pieces. A great weighty Nail was started out of the Said Ceiling, and fell over my Head, and lay upon my Pillow; and I thought my Head, with the Lightning had been in a Flash of Fire. Whilst I could but just shut my Eyes and open them again, the Lightning went down into the Hold, and ran out like a Train of Wild-Fire, and burst out through the Galley's Side, and rent Ten or Eleven Foot of the OutsidePlank off, within a Foot of the Water's-Edge. Some of the Lightning shot up between the Timbers and the Ceiling into the Gun-Room, and staved a Beam, and set Three or Four Bundles of armed Match all on Fire. The Gunner, George Hardy, was lying in his Cabbin at the same time, and the Lightning blistered one of his Feet, and singed the Hair of his Head. The Master's Cabbin was between the Gunners and mine; but had no Damage. If the Lightning had gone forward, as it did go out in the Hold, we had all been blown up; for our Powder was forward. This, with Thanks to God for his safe Deliverance of us from so eminent a Danger, is the best Account that can be given thereof by, Yours, &c. A a a a a a 2 IV. Part 