(5019) An Accompt of some Books. I. SCARBROUHG SP AW spagyrically Anatomized,An. 1670; And a NEW-YEARS-GUIFT for Dr. Witty; London 1671: Both in 12o by George Tonstal Doct.of Physick. THE Examination of Medical waters being so useful both for the improvement of Physiology, and the Relief of the Health of man; we cannot but take publick notice in these Tracts of the discourses of that Subject,that come abroad by the Press ~ wishing only, that the Examiners of such matters, as well as of all others, would consider them without partiality and invectives,with all possible care and sincerity; thereby to stock the Philosophical Magazeen, that is now every where a furnishing by Experimental Philosophers, with such observations as commend themselves by their Truth and Exactness: For the finding out of which in the matter of the Scarbrough Spaw, treated of in these two pieces, and controverted between their Author and Dr. Witty; it seems to be very necessary to commit the examination of what they both have deliver'd thereon to some as well impartial as intelligent Naturalists, to review what they have written, and to repeat the Trials they have made, the better to enable themselves to decide the dispute. In the mean time it may not be amiss to give some account here both of the state of the Controversy, as 'tis delivered in these two discourses, and of the Assertions made by Dr.Tonstal concerning these waters. The Controversy is, whether the Scarbrough-Spaw do contain forIngredients,Particles of Stone,aNitro-aluminous Salt,and a Glebe of Allom; and consequently be apt, upon the account of that Stone-Powder and clay, to breed the Stone? This is denyed by Dr. Witty, who judgeth its material principles to be cheifly,Allom Nitre, and Vitriol of Iron which he faith he hath extracted out of it. Whereas Dr. Tonstal positively affirms, that the Scarbrough-water hath no vitriol or iron in it but a Stone-powder, and a clay, leaving sand at the bottom of the B b b b b Vessel (5020) Vessel,when it is boiled,like the dropping well at Knaisborough; and that consequently it hath a Lapidescent Juice, and therefore is petrifying, and bad for the Stone, Gout, and Jaundice: maintaining,that that which Dr.Witty calls a little insipid earth, (remaining upon the dissolution of the first extract of this Spaw, and the filtration of it) is a great deal of gretty Stone-powder; and adding further, that 'tis the peculiar Character of the same Spaw, whereby it is distinguish't from other Spaws in use,to take a resty fit sooner or later, so as that it will neither go backward nor forward, by siege or urine. Having made it his business to prove this both by a Chymical Analysis, and by Experience of his own and others,importing that they never had any fit of the Stone till he and they drank of this Scarbrough-water; he further observeth, 1. That Allom-Stone dissolved in water yields a Purple tincture by Gall; and that, this Allom stone being acknowledged by Dr. Witty to be in Scarbrough, therefore the Tincture by Gall is no argument for Vitriol in that Spaw. 2. That all waters that have dissolved Iron, have Vitriol also as the product of that dissolution. 3 That all the Salt that sprouts out of the Scarbrough cliff, is Nitro-alluminous, and not Vitriol. 4. That the precipitated powder found at the bottom of the vessel, after that Scarbrough water hath stood in it two or three dayes, is Glebe of Allom. 5. That if Vitriol be joyned with Niter in Scarbrough (as Dr. Witty will have it) it becomes a corrosive water, whereby (saith Dr. Tonstal) it would be made worse than by all he hath written against it. Whilst our Author is thus examining the Scarbrough-Spaw, he taketh occasion to say thus much of that of knaisoorough, that its worth and excellency is, that an Embryonate Sulphur hath corroded Iron in it; which,saith he, makes it Stomachical, Opening, Diuretical, and strengthening all the noble parts. Having thus represented the sum and substance of what Dr. Tonstal hath alledged against Dr. Witty upon this Spaw; we wish for further examination of this water, to be undertaken (5021) taken in an amicable and unbiassed way,and by the conjunction of some able and discreet Persons with these two disputants, that have hitherto very unbecommingly inveighed against one another. II. NEW-ENGLANDS RARITIEs discover'd; together with the Remedies used by the Natives to cure their Diseases, Wounds and Sores,&c. By John Josselin Gent.London 1672.in 12o. THese Observations are the fruits of the Authors eight years travel in New England: They concern (besides the Geography of that Country, and the temperature of the Air, and the most common Diseases) the natural Productions of that English Plantation: And those 1 Animals; viz Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Serpents, Insects. 2 Plants, and these either such as are common with us; or proper to that Country, both with, and without names; or such as have sprung up since the English planted there; or lastly such Garden-herbs (amongst us,) as do thrive there, and of such as do not. 3. Fossils,as Stones,Minerals, Metals, and Earths. To make these Observations of Nature the more considerable and useful, the Observer subjoins to them their respective uses in Physick, Chirurgery, Dying, &c e.g. To cure consumptions by eating Land-Turtles: To heal Scalds and Burns with the Oyl of the Sea-Calf; or with a strong decoction of Tobacco, washing the Sore therewith, and strewing Tobacco-powder thereon: To heal Bruises and Aches with the Oyl of the Sperma-ceti-Whale; which, saith the Author, being put up into Hogsheads, and stow'd into Cellars for some time, candieth at the bottom about one quarter,and then the oyl being drawn off ofthe candied stuff,put up into convenient vessels, proveth to be right Sperma Ceti, and is sold for such, being admirable for the already mention'd uses: Item, To remedy the biting of a Ratle-Snake by bruising its Liver and applying it to the wound: To strengthen the Limbs by anointing them with an Oyl, drawn out of the white Oak acorns,boiled in a Lixivium made of the Ashes of rotten Maple-wood, untill the Oyl swim on the top,which is so clear and sweet,that the IndiB b b b b 2 ans (5022) ans eat it also with their meat: To heal bruisedLimbs and Cuts with the bark of Birch, boyled very tender, and stamped between two Stones to be a plaister, and the decoction thereof powred into the wound: To take off a Pin or web,or any kind of film growing over the eye with the calcin'd and pulverized shell of a Sheath-fish, which is very plentiful in New-England; a delicate fish, cover'd with a thin shell and of the colour of a Musle. Among the Animals,there are some that deserve to be taken notice of above the rest; as 1. A Dear, call'd the Moose-dear, some of which are described to be twelve foot high, with exceeding fair Horns with broad palms; some of them two fathoms from the tip of one Horn to the other: They have commonly three Fawns at a time, which are, to our Observers Palate, an incomparable dish. 2. A monstrous great Bird, call'd Pilhannaw or Mechquan, a kind of Hawk, four times as big as a GosiHawk, with a head as big as a Childs of a year old, a very Princely Bird; at whose soaring abroad, all sorts of feather'd creatures hide themselves; though she never preys upon any of them, but doth upon Fawns and Jaccals. 3. The ScarletMuslle, having a purple vein, which being prick't with a needle yeilds a perfect Purple or Scarlet Juyce that will not be washt out of the Linnen died therewith; found at Paschatawey,a Plantation about 50 Leagues by Sea East-ward from Boston, in a small Cove,call'd Bakers Cove. 4. A little Beast call'd a Muskquash, feeding upon the bastard Calamus Aromaticus,hath Cods senting that as sweet and strong as Musk, and lasting thus a long time, wrapt up in Cotton-wool. Among Plants there is one, taken by some to be a kind of Golden Rod, by others for Sarazens Consound,by the Author for a kind of Sun flower, or West Indian Marigold; of which the stalk beneath and above the knob is cover'd with a multitude of small Bugs, about the bickness of a great Flea, which order'd as they should be before they come to have wings, the Observer presumes will make good Cochineel; they yeilding a perfect and durable Scarlet colour. The New England Pease are said by our Author not only to be the best in the world, but free from being worm eaten. Rue (5023) Rue he noteth for an herbe hardly growing there; RoseMary, Lavender, Southern-wood, not at all; Blood wort and Celondine, but sorrily; Muskmelons better than in old England, &c. III. A Rational way of preparing ANIMALS, VEGETABLES and MINERALS for a Physical use: by Edw. Bolnest Med. Reg. Ord. London, 1672. in 120. THis Author, having some years since in his Medicina Instaurata given a brief accompt of the Excellency of well-prepared Chymical Medicines, with the reasons why they were and ought to be esteemed such; did then promise this Piece, wherein he undertakes to teach the Manner of their Preparation, by which he esteems they are made most efficacious, safe and pleasant Medicines for the preservation and restauration of the Life of man. In the doing of which, he giveth both general instructions,and particular Examples in each kind, and of each Kingdome, as they speak; which though not many, yet are by him conceived as sufficient guides to a larger progress. He begins with the general way of preparing Animals into a true medicine; and then descending to the preparation of a particular Animal, he would have Students of Chymistry consider, what vertues Physitians have adscribed to it, together with its dose according to occasion, and the strength, age, and constitution of the Patient, and a fit vehicle. It were to be wished, that since this Author often speaketh of the Fixed Salt drawn from Animals, he had obliged the curious Reader with specifying, what quantity of such Salt he had by his own Operations obtained from Animals. He proceeds next to the manner of preparing Vegetables,observing, that in them lies hid a very subtil and pure aethereal, and a fixed substance, the cherisher and supporter of life, the food and nourishment of natural heat, the root and foundation of all its faculties: which substances whilst they are abounding trees flourish and bring forth fruit; but once decaying, they grow unfruitful, wither and dye. Lastly (5024) Lastly,he teacheth his way of preparing Metals and Minerals for the health of man, assuring the ingenious Searcher after this knowledg, that he may with confidence have recourse to it, both for safety and efficacy, beyond the common Preparations now in use; and adding withall,that,because he knows many Practitioners may want either time or conveniency to provide themselves with such Medicines, he promises herewith, that he will, upon their desire, spare them such Medicines as he hath prepared for his own use, whether of the more common preparations but better elaborated, or other particular remedies; and that,upon a friendly account, the Medicine rightly considered: Declaring moreover his willingness to afford any Learned Physitian the satisfaction of seeing his Laboratory, or the Preparation of any medicine he shall desire at seasonable times. Here, when he treateth of the Preparation of Mercury, he intimates, that that being well perform'd it will yeild a Medicine much availeable in the cure of very many diseases, and that cito,tuto,& jucunde; whereas otherwise,if Mercury be only changed in form, it may, being imprudently and rashly used, do more hurt than good. Whereupon he sets down some of such Processes and preparations of this odd Metal, as he judgeth most safe, and fit for internal Medicines: Which seem to deserve the consideration of sober and intelligent Readers. IV. Miscellanea Curiosa PHYSICO-MEDICA Academiae Na~ turae Curiosorum: annus secundus, anni sc. 1671. Jenae 1671. in 4o. AS there was given an Account in No. 68. of the first Years Philosophical Ephemerides of the German Academy of the Curious Inquirers into Nature; so we shall here give notice, that the same Academists have made publick their Collections of the second year, falling into 1671; In which amongst many other particulars there are contained these following; 1. A dissection of a Lyoness, and a Tyger. 2. Several odd peculiarities of Nature. 3. A (5025) 3. A singular Case of a German Countess, alwaies voiding aquam-puerperii fifteen daies before she brings forth a Son, but not when a Daughter. 4. An odd generation of worms in the Eye-lids, and the cavities of the Ears. 5. A dissection of an Infant destitute of all Brain. 6. A Preparation of Volatile Salt of Tartar. 7. Napellus not poysonous in Poland. 8. A dissection of a Mole and an Hedge-Hog. 9. A Belly altogether grown scirrous. 10. A dissection of an Epileptical young man, and the Observables found in his Head, and the other parts of his body. 11. An uncommon History of Stones taken out of the feet of Podagrical persons. 12. Of a Woman having three Breasts. 13. Respiration considered Mathematically. 14. A Perlustration of the chief Mines in Bohemia, especially of Cuttenberg, Joachims-daal,the Beauteous Mary, Slackenwald and Scbonfeld: In which there are,respectively,Mines, of Silver mixt with Copper; a considerable Silver mine called the Mine of New Hope, newly discovered: Mines of Bel metal; of Bismuth; of meer Silver; &c. together with divers considerable Observations of the face,constitution,and external productions of those and their neighbouring places; as also of a notable substance, call'd saxi Medulla; of an highly valued Black Earth; of abundance of Granats growing there; of a whole Tree petryfied; of very pernicious damps; of pretended sub terraneous Daemons; &c. 15. Another preparation of Volatil Salt of Tartar. 16. A wound of the Eye strangely cured. 17. Instances of the strange force of Imagination. 18. An odd Antipathy to Bread. 16. An Example of an Anniversary Melancholy. 20. A verminous Tertian Ague. 21. Some Anatomical Observations upon Animals. 22. A dissection of a Woman that had voided unusual things. 23. Di(5026) 23. Divers Experiments about Congelation. 24. An Hermaphroditical conception. 25. A strang Birth of a putrified Embrio. 26. A very odd kind of Convulsions. 27. An admirable cure of a very grievous wound in the Head, with the loss of part of the Brain. 28. A dissection of a man that died of a Consumption,and of another, that died of the Stone. 26. A Castor dissected, &c. For the rest we must refer to the Book it self, (to be met with at Mr. Martyns in St. Pauls Church-yard;) after we have only intimated, that these Observations amount to 260; whereof many are illustratetd with elegant Cuts. 