XXVIII. Part of a ~ from Mr. Stephen Fuller, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, to his Father John Fuller, Esq; senior, F. R. S. concerning a violent Hurricane in Huntingtonshire, Sept. 8. 1741. Communicated by Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. late Pr. R. S. Cambridge, Sept. 9. 1741 YEsterday was the most violent Hurricane of Wind in these Parts, that ever was known since the Memory of Man. Cambridge was not in the midst of the Hurricane, so that it has escaped very well. I happened to be paying a Visit to Dr. Knight, a Cotemporary of yours, of our College, who lives at Bluntsham in Huntingtonshire, about 10 Miles North-west of Cambridge. We were in the midst of the Hurricane; but, by getting into the strongest Part of the House, we escaped without any great Danger. The Morning, till half an Hour after Eleven, was still, with very hard Showers of Rain: At half an Hour 5 S after [852] after Eleven it began to clear up in the South, with a brisk Air, so that we expected a fine Afternoon: The South-west cleared up too, and the Sun shining warm drew us out into the Garden. We had not been out above 10 Minutes, before we saw the Storm coming from the South-west: It seemed not to be 30 Yards high from the Ground, bringing along with it a Mist, which rolled along with such incredible Swiftness, that as near as we could guess, it ran a Mile and an half in half a Minute: It began exactly at 12 o'Clock, and lasted about 13 Minutes, Eight Minutes in full Violence: It presently unhealed ~ House we were in, and some of the Tiles, falling ~ to Windward, were blown in at the Sashes, and ~ the Wainscot on the other Side of the Room; ~ broken Glass was blown all the Room over, the Chimneys all escaped; but the Statues, which where on the Top of the House, and the Balustrades from one End to the other, were all blown down. The Stabling was all blown down, except Two little Stalls, where, by the greatest Fortune in the World, stood my Horse and the Doctor's. All the Barns in the ~, except those that were full of Corn quite up to the Top, were blown flat upon the Ground, to the Number of about 60. The Dwelling-houses escaped ~ a Miracle; there were not above a Dozen blown down out of near 100. The Alehouse was levelled with the Ground, but by good Luck not a Soul in it. If the Storm had lasted Five Minutes longer, almost every House in the Town must have been down; for they were all, in a manner, rocked quite off from their Underpinnings. The People all left their Houses, and carried their Children out to the Wind [853] Windward Side, and laid them down upon the Ground, and laid themselves down by them; and by that means all escaped, but one poor Miller, who went into his Mill to secure it against the Storm, and was blown over, and crushed to Death betwixt the Stones and one of the large Beams: I saw him taken out. All the Mills in the Country are blown down: I do not hear of any more bodily Mischief; only ~ Miller at Willingham, so much bruised, that they hardly expect his Life. Hay-stacks and Corn-stacks are some quite blown away, some into the next Corner of the Field. The poor Pigeons, that were catched in it, were blown down upon the Ground, and dashed to Pieces; one of which I found, myself, above half a Mile from either House or Hedge. Where-ever it met with any boarded Houses, it seemed to exert more than ordinary Violence upon them, and scattered the Wrecks of them for above a quarter of a Mile to the North-east, in a Line: I followed one of these Wrecks myself; and, about 150 Yards from the Building, I found a Piece of a Rafter, about Feet long, and about Six Inches by Four, stuck upright Two Feet deep in the Ground; and at the Distance of 400 Paces of my Horse, from the same Building, was an Inch Board, Nine Inches broad, 14 Feet long: I am convinced, that these Boards were carried up into the Air; for I saw some, that were carried over a Pond above 30 Yards; and I saw a Row of Pales, as much as Two Men could lift, carried Two Rods from their Places, and set upright against an Apple-tree. Pales, in general, were all blown down, some Posts broke off short by the Ground, others torn up by the Stumps. The whole Air was full of Straw: 5 S 2 Gravel[854] Gravel-stones, as big as the Top of my little Finger, were blown off the Ground in at the Windows; and the very Grass was blown quite flat upon the Ground. After the Storm was over, we went out into the Town, and such a miserable Sight I never saw: The Havock I have described; the Women and Children crying, the Farmers all dejected; some blessing G O D for the Narrowness of their Escape, others wondering how so much Mischief could be done with one Blast of Wind, which hardly lasted long enough for People to get out of their Houses. I talked to Two People, that were out in it all the Time, who said, that they heard it coming about half a Minute before they saw it; and that it made a Noise something resembling Thunder, more continued, and continually increasing. I saw a Man in the Afternoon, who came from St. Ives, who says, the Spire of the Steple, which is one of the finest in England, is blown down, as is the Spire of Hemming ford, the Towns having received as much Damage as Bluntsham. There was neither Thunder nor Lightning with it, as there was at Cambridge, where it lasted above half an Hour, and consequently was not so violent. Some few Booths in Sturbridge-fair were blown down. The Course of the Storm was from Huntington to St. Ives, Erith, between Wisbich and Downham to Lynn, and so on to Suetsham: We have heard nothing of it farther to the South-west than Huntington, nor farther Northeast than Downham. Very few Trees escaped: The Barns that stood the Storm, had all their Roofs more damaged to the Leeward Side than to the Windward. We are in great Hopes the Storm was not general; I am apt to think it was much such a Storm as ran through [855] through Sussex about 10 Years ago. The Storm was succeeded by a profound Calm, which lasted about an Hour; after which the Wind continued pretty high, till 10 o'Clock at Night. To Sir H A N S S L O A N E, Bart. &c. Honoured S I R, Rosehill, Sept. 13. 1741. T H E above-written is Part of a Letter from my Son Stephen Fuller, Fellow of Trinity College in Cambridge; which is so particular an Account of a terrible Storm on Tuesday last, in Huntingtonshire, in which he was present, as may deserve to be communicated to the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y, if you think fit. I am Your most dutiful Son, and humble Servant, J. Fuller. 