C115 ) V. Farther experiments on the combustion of explosive mixtures confined by wire-gauze, with some observations ont flame. By Sir H. Davy, LL. D. F. R. S. V. P. R. I. Read January 25, 18i6. I HAVE pursued my enquiries respecting the limits of the size of the apertures and of the wire in the metallic gauze, which I have applied to secure the coal miners from the explo-. sions of fire-damp. Gauze made of brass wire, -$t of an inch in thickness, and containing only ten apertures to the inch, or ioo apertures in the square inch, employed in the usual-way as a guard of flame, did not communicate explosion in a mixture of 1 part of coal gas and 12 parts of air, as long as it was cool, but as soon as the top became hot, an explosion took place. A quick lateral motion likewise enabled it to communicate explosion. Gauze made of the same wire, containing 14 apertures to the inch, or 196 to the square inch, did not communicate explosion till it became strongly red hot, when it was no longer safe in explosive mixtures of coal gas; but no motion that could be given to it, by shaking it in a close jar, produced explosion. Iron wire gauze of Elio and containing 240 apertures in the square inch, was safe in explosive mixtures of coal gas, till it became strongly red hot at the top. ii6 Sir HUmP-HRY DAVY on the combustion of Iron wire6 gatuze of -t, and of 2 apertures to the inch, or of 576 to the square inch, appeared safe under all circumstances in explosive mixtures of coal gasp I kept up Ha continual flame in a cylinder of this kind, 8 inches high and X inches in diameter, for a quarter of an hour, varying the proportions of coal gas and air as far as was compatible with their inflammation; the top of the cylinder, for some minutes, was strongly red hot, but though the mixed gas was passed rapidly through it by pressure from a gasometer and a pair of double bellows, so as to make it a species of blast furnace, yet no explosion took place. I mentioned in my last communication to the Society, that a flarne confined in a cylinder of very fine wire gauze, did not explode a mixture of oxygene and hydrogene, but thatthe gases burnt in it with great vivacity. I have repeated this experiment in nearly a pint of the most explosive mixture of the two gases; they burnt violently within the cylinder, but, though the upper part became nearly white hot, yet no explosion was communicated, and it was necessary to with-. draw the cylinder to prevent the brass wire from being melted. These results are best explained by considering the nature of the flame of combustible bodiesgwhich, in all cases, must be considered as the combustion of an explosive mixture of inflammable gas, or vapour and air; for it cannot be regarded as a mere combustion at the surface of contact of the inflammable matter and the fact is proved by holding a taper or a piece of burning phosphorus within a large flame made by the combustion of alcohol) the flame of the candle or of the phosphorus will explosive mixtures confined by wire-gauze, &c. 117 appear in the centre of the other flame, proving that there is oxygene even in its interior part. The heat communicated by flame must depend upon its mass ; this is shown by the fact that the top of a slender cylinder of wire-gauize hardly ever becomes dull red in the experiment on an explosive mixture, whilst in a larger cylinder, made of the same material, the central part of the top soon becomes. bright red. A large quantity of cold air thrown upon a small flame, lowers its heat beyond the explosive point, and in extinguishing a flame by blowing upon it, the effect is probably principally produced by this cause, assisted by a dilution of the explosive mixture. If a piece of wire-gauze sieve is held over a flame of a lamp or of coal gas, it prevents the flame from passing it, and the phenomenon is precisely similar to that exhibited by the wiregauze cylinders; the air passing through is found very hot, for it will convert paper into charcoal; and it is an explosive mixture, for it will inflame if a lighted taper is presented to it, but it is cooled below the explosive point by passing through wires even red hot, and by being mixed with a considerable quantity of air comparatively cold. The real temperature of visible flame is perhaps as high as any we are acquainted with. Mr. TENNANT was in the habit of showing an experiment, which demonstrates the intensity of its heat. He used to fuse a small filament of platinum in the flame of a common candle; and it is proved by many facts, that a stream of air may be made to render a metallic body white hot, yet not be itself luminous. A considerable mass of heated metal is required to inflame 118 Sir HUMPIHRY DAVY on the combustion of even coal gas, or the contact of the same mixture with an extensive heated surface. An iron wire of 2 of an inch and 8 inches long red hot, when held perpendicularly in a stream of coal gas, did not inflame it, nor did a shlort wire of one sixth of an inch produce the effect held horizontally; but wire of the same size, when six inches of it were red hot, and when it was held perpendicularly in a bottle, containing an explosive mixture, so that heat was successively communicated to portions of the gas, produced its explosion. A certain degree of mechanical force which rapidly throws portions of cold explosive mixture upon flame, prevents explosions at the point of contact; thus on pressing an explo.t sive mixture of coal gas from a syringe, or a gum elastic bottle, it burns only at some distance from the aperture from which it is disengaged. Taking all these circumstances into account, there appears no difficulty in explaining the combustion of explosive uiix. tures within and not without the cylinders; for a current is established from below upwards, and the hottest part of the cylinder is where the results of combustion, the water, carbonic acid, or azote, which are not inflammable, pass out. The gas which enters is not sufficiently heated on the outside of the wire, to be exploded, and as the gases are no where confined, there can be no mechanical force pressing currents of flame towards the same point. It will be needless to enter into further illustrations of the theoretical part of the subject: and I shall conclude this Paper by stating, what I am sure will be gratifying to the Society, that the cylinder lamps have been tried in two of the most explosive mixtures confined by wire-gauze, &C. 119 dangerous mines near Newcastle, with perfect success; and from the communications I have had from the collieries, there is every reason to believe that they will be immediately adopted in all the mines in that neighbourhood, where there is any danger from fire-damp, 