XIII; The Case of afll groawn Wo man in whom the Ovaria were deficient. By Mr. Charles Pears, F.-L. Se Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Bains,K B. P. R. S. Read /May 9, 1805. 7HE following case is laid before this learned Society, as an addition to those already registered in the Philosophical Trans.actions, with the view of elucidating such physiological inquiries 'as are connected with the --state-of thie-organsof generation. ANN JOsEPH was born Mat Dis'erth, in Radnorshire,North Wales,-August 4, 1770. She was of a fair florid complexion, ad blue eyes, dark-brown hair, a flat nose, and thick lips. Sine was naturally mild, but when irritated, was sometimes malicious and revengeful. In her diet she was remarkably abstemious, eating little of animal food, no fresh vegetables, and so small a portion of bread, that she often did not consume a penny loaf in the course; of a week. If at any time she was prevailed upon to take several kinds -of -food, her stomach -was so much affected by it, that she; fainted away; and if she had' eaten a hearty meal, these faintings would be repeated. She was of a costive habit, seldom having a passage in her bowels oftener than once in nine days, and sometimes only once in fourteen. She slept well, -and could endure hard work, but was slowin performing it. -Having ceased to grow atten years of age, she was in stature not more than 4 feet 6 inchecs XDCCCV. Gg .26 Mr. PEARS On the Cawe of afull grown Woman high. Her breadth across the shoulders was as much as ii inches, but her pelvis, (contrary to what is usually observed in th prportions of >Rtthne frnnue sklto) m sure oldy 9 aces>, -from the o ilia aoross the s m. Her brats sand nipples never *enlarged more *m 'in -.the male su-bect; she never menstruated: there was no appearance of hair on the Pubes, nor were there any indications of puberty either in mind or body, even attwetynie years of age; on the contrary, she always expressed aversion to young men who were too familiar with her. At the age of tWentyAone she expressed much uneasiness at fii herself difiet otier ''young women, whichshe attributed to not having menstruated-; and was so desirous of relief thatishe frequently took medical advice for that Tpurpose. From her_ infancyalso she was liable to complaints in her chest, attended with cough, that came u-ponllher at intervals in violent attacks, and increased 'in violence as she advanced in life. -In her -twenty-ninth year one Of these attacks came on, attended with convulsions of which she died after a few hours illness. After death, 'the female organs: were taken out and preserved, In this ^state they were shown to Sir JOsEPH BANKS at whose request their internal structure was accurately examined, and the following Appearances were observed, which are illustrated in the annexed drawing of them, made by Mr. CtIFT. The os tinca aind uterus had the usual form, hit had never increased beyond their lsize in the infant state; the passage into the uterus through the cervix was oblique. The cavity of ______ fl,/r fin//,ttMJ\ ) o(a\'./rfr cC:V7/I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 7 in whom the Ovark Were deficient. 227 the uterus was of the common shape, and the Fallopian tubes were pervious to the fimbrie; the coats of the uterus were membranous. Thetovaria were so indistinct as rather to show -rudimtents which ought to have formed them, than any part of their natural structure. All these appearances will be better understood by their representation in the annexed drawing (Plate V.) than from any description that -can lbe given. The history of this case, with the account of the dissection,. becomes valuable, as it' shows that an imperfect state of t ovaria, is notonly attended 'withan absence of all the characters belonging to the &fbnale after pub rty, but that the uterus itselfW althoughperfecty f-rmed, is checked idits growth fr want of due strueture of thseparts. That there is an intimate connect. on between the`ovariHa and uterus has-long been ascertained; but that th.e growth of the uterus shouldso entirely depend upon. that of the, ovaria, I believe, to be a new fact; at least it has not been pubblised in any work that has come under my observation. z' a 6X J t 