X. A new Method of deducing afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Cometfrom three Geocentric Observations. By James Ivory, A. M. Communicated by Henry Brougham, Esq. F. R. S. Read February 17, i814p COMETS are distinguished fromn the planets not only by the peculiarities that imnmediately strike the eye, but likewise by the circumstances attending their motion in the heavens. All the planets move round the sun in orbits nearly circular; they never deviate far from the ecliptic on either side; and they move in a manner not extremely irregular, and in one direction, according to the order of the signs in the zodiac. Comets on the contrary, when they first come into view, assume gradually greater degrees of brightness, which they again lose by like gradations, and then disappear; thus seeming to visit the neighbourhood of the sun for a short time only, after which they retire into the immensity of space: they are seen in all quarters of the heavens: and their motion is exceedingly va. rious and irregular; confined to no direction; sometimes greatly curved, and often hardly distinguishable from a rectilineal course. If, to phenomena so dissimilar, we add the prejudice which almost universally prevailed, that cornets have only a temporary existence, and are produced by occasional causes, we shall not perhaps have much reason to be surprised that the true account of those bodies, which represents them as forming a part of the same system wikh thie planets, eluded the sagacity of KEPLER, to whomn we are MDCCCIXv. R 122 Mr. IvORY on a new Method of deducing indebted for the first accurate knowledge of the laws of the planetary motions. This step in our knowledge of the universe was reserved for Sir ISAAc NEWTON. The principal and leading discovery of that great philosopher consisted in generalizing the laws of KEPLER; in proving that they are necessary consequences of a more general fact, namely, that all the planets are continually deflected from a rectilineal motion towards the sun in the inverse proportion of the squares of their distances from that body. He demonstrated that the motions of such a system of bodies must be performed in the conic sections, having the sun in the focus, the species of the curve depend, ing upon the proportion of the rectilineal velocity to the quan-. tity of the deflection towards the common centre. This theory comprehends an infinite variety of motions, all flowing from one common principle and the ellipse alone, by the changes of form which it undergoes according to the degrees of its eccentricity, seems, at one extreme, when it is greatly elongated, as well adapted to account for the phenomena of the comets, as it is, at the other extreme, when it differs little from a circle, to represent the motions of the planets. To try if this theory will account for the actual appearances, it is necessary to determine, by means of terrestrial observations, the magnitude and position of the curve in which a comet moves round the sun. Having selected as many observed places of a comet as are necessary for this purpose, the remaining observations will serve as so many tests of the accuracy of the theory. When a comet appears for the first tinne it is, indeed, hardly possible to determine its orbit with exactness. The very eccentric ellipses in which those bodies move, allow them to be seen only when they are near the sun; and in this afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. ., situation, the nicest observations do not enable us to distinguish the real orbit from the parabola with which it intimately coincides. It is only after one or more reappearances of the same comet, that we can hope to discover the period of its revolution round the sun, and the mean distance of the ellipse in which its motions are really performed: unless indeed a rare instance may sometimes occur, in which the length of time a comet continues visible, and a great number of obs@vations extending over a considerable portion of the orbit, may mark so great deviations from a parabolic motion as to lead to a tolerably exact estimation of the elliptic elements. For a single appearance we must be content with supposing the orbit to be a parabola; a supposition which, if it be not rigorously true, serves important purposes inl astronomy: it proves that the comets move round the sun by the same laws as the planets; and it enables us to discover the identity of a comet with one already observedwhen we find that they agree in having the same parabolic elements. Three geocentric observations of the longitude and latitude of a comet are sufficient for determining the parabola which it describes. The problem is one of great difficulty. The apparent motion of a comet is the combined effect of its own motion and of that of the earth; it is therefore extremely irregular and intricate; and on this account it is difficult to deduce the heliocentric positions from observations made on the earth's surface. We can observe the planets at all times and in all situations; and with regard to them we can thus select those positions where the heliocentric places are fou id iimmediately from observation, without any perplexed calculations; but we are deprived of this expedient in the case of the comets R in Mr. IvoRy on a new Method of deducing which continue visible for a short time only, and in a small part of their` orbit. In order to evade the difficulties attending a direct consideration of the problem, and to obtain an approximate solution at least Sir ISAAC NEWTON proposed to take a small portion of the orbit for a straight line described with a uniform motion. On this supposition the projections of thie comet on the plane of the ecliptic will lie in one straight line as well as the real places in the heavens; and theseveral parts of both lines will have the same proportions as the intervals of time between the observations: so that in order to find the projection of a comet's trajectory on the plane of the ecliptic, we have only to draw a straight line which shall cut the several straight lines whose positionsare determined by the observed longitudes in such a manner that the intercepted segments shall have given proportions. With three observations only this problem is indeterminate, or admits of innumerable solutions: for, let AP, BE, CQ, (fig. 1. P1. IV.) drawn in the plane of the ecliptic, represent the directions in which the comet is seen from the earth at the three observations; then, having assumed any point at pleasure, as E, in one of those lines,* we catn draw, through that point, a straight line PQ to terminate in the other two lines AP and CQ, so that PE and EQ shall have the samne proportion as the intervals of time between the observations. When four observations are employed, the problem, generally speaking is determinate, and is easily solved.t* Prin. Math. Lib. 3, Lem. 7. t Arith. Udiv. Prob. 5z2. Prin. Math. Lib. i, Lem. 27 Cor. T eo. SIMPSON '$ Elern. Geom. 3d edit. p. 353. DAY. Greg. Astr. Phys. et Geo. Elem. Lib. 5, Prop. I i Udinl. Tran. Vol. 111. a first Approximati'n to the Orbit of a Comet. 2 If we reflect on the suppositions madeby NEWTON for sirmn plifying the method of finding a comet's trajectory, it must be admitted that they seem judicious, and that they are founded in fact. In the usual circumstances in which terrestrial obser. vations are made, there is no doubt that the real path of a comet, for a short time at least, differs little from a straight line, and that the motion is nearly uniform. Yet the problem grounded on these suppositions, although it has been often applied, has never, in any instance, led to a satisfactory determination of a comet's orbit. The reason of this was first noticed by Boscovicu, who shewed that in the actual state of the data, owing to the earth and the comet being both in motion, the problem is as indeterminate when four observations are employed, as we have already remarked that it is in the case of three observations only. In order to explain what has just been said, it must be observed that, for a short time, the earth as well as a comet, may be supposed to move in a straight line with a uniform velocity. If we draw a tangent to that point of the earth's orbit which the planet would occupy at the middle instant between. the two extreme observations, the supposition of a uniform motion in the tangent will not much displace the earth from its real positions, and will produce but little alteration in the apparent places of a comet. Suppose then that the earth moves with a uniform motion in the straight line AD, (fig. 2. PI. IV.) so that the parts AB, BC, CD, are proportional to the intervals of time between four observ ati ns of a comet: also let the four observed places of the comet in the ecliptic be represented by the points P, E, F and Q lying in one straight line of which the parts PE, EF, FQ, are proportional to the same intervals of time, and i 9,6 Mr. IORY on a new Method of deducing consequently to the segments AB, EC, CD: then the lines AP, BE, CF, DQ, or the directions in which the comet is seen from the earth, will be given by position on account of the observed longitudes. Draw DM parallel to AP, and PM parallel to AD, and join QM: now if we assume any point whatever in the line AP,-as p; and draw pm parallel to PM, and mq parallel to MQ; then, the line pq being drawn, it will be cut by the l.ines BE and CF into segments having the same proportions as the segments of the lines AD and PQ. To demonstrate this: draw BH and CG parallel to AP and DM, and let those lines meet PM in H, G, and pm in h, g: join HE, GF; and because the segments of PM are equal to the segments of AD, they will be proportional to the segments of PQ (hyp.); therefore (E. 2. VI.) HE and GF will be parallel to MQ ard mq: draw he and gf parallel to HE and GF; and consequently (E. 2. VI.) pq will be cut in e andf in the same proportion as AD is cut in B and C, and PQ in H and G: and I say that BE will cut pq in e, and CF will cut it inf. For on account of the parallel lines, and because P-M = pm, PG = pg, PH ph, therefore QM: HE: : qm : he QM: GF: qm-:gf and, by alternation, QM :qm: :HE: he QM : qm: : GF : gJ but, on account of the similar triangles QDM, qdm, QM :qm * MD':-mD therefore, because MD GC = BH, and mD Cg = Bh, BH: Bh: :HE :he CG : Ca: .GF :gf afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 127 consequently BE will cut pq in e, and CF will cut it in f. Thus it is proved that innumerable lines may be drawn that will all be cut by the four lines AP, BE, CF, DQ into segments having the same proportions as the intervals of time between four observations of a comet. The problem is therefore not more determinate with four, or even a greater number of, observations, than it is with three: and it is totally unfit for finding the lengths of the lines AP, BE, CF, DQ, or the comet's distances from the earth. The shorter we make the intervals of time between the observations, and the more exactly the suppositions made by Sir ISAAC NEWTON are fulfilled, the less fitted is the problem to answer the purposes of astronomy, because it approaches more nearly to the conditions which make it indeterminates* Besides the method of which we have hitherto been speaking, Sir ISAAC NEWTON likewise gave another very able solution of the problem, t which however is too tedious and laborious in practice to fulfil the wishes of astronomers, and it is now disused. Dr. HALLEY, who studied the astronomy of comets with much diligence, has no where explained the method he followed in determining their orbits. Since his time this problem has not been much discussed in England; but it is the subject of a great number of researches scattered in the academical collections of the learned societies on the continent. All the resources of the modern mathematics have been directed to overcome the peculiar difficulties of this intricate investigation. Yet it must be confessed that practical astronomy has not reaped so much benefit as might Justly* Vide a Memoir by Professor PLATFA AR in the 3d Vol. of the Edin. Trans. t Prin. Math. Lib. 3, Prop. 41. ;28 Mr. IvoRY on a new Method of deducIng have been expected fiom the labours of so many eminent men. In most of the solutions that have been proposed we find certain coefficients which are not only extremely small when reduced into numbers, but they likewise stiffr great alterations in their relative magjnitudes when small changes, within the limits of the probable errors, are made in the quantities furnished by observation. In such circumstances the results obtained are often wide of the truth, and in no case can entire dependence be had on their accuracy. The fact is that the solutions hlere spoken of, are uncertain and useless in practice for the very same reason as the one already mentioned, which supposes the orbit to be rectilineal, and proposes to deduce it from four observations Nor is this to be wondered at. We have already shewn that it is not any inaccuracy in the suppositions made by Sir ISAAc NEWTON, which renders his first method insufficient and of no use in practical astronomy; nor is this owing to any defectiveness in the geometrical construction;it arises fom his having overlooked that connection between the motion of the earth and the motion of the comet, which makes the data approach so near the indeterminate case of the problem that the conclusion becomes quite uncertain. We fall upon the indeterminate case when we suppose both the earth and the comet to move in straight lines with uniform velocities; and the very same hypothesis will be found to make the small coefficients alluded to, accurately evanescent.* The inconvenience is inherent in the quantities obtained by * The small coefficients here mentioned, are exactly evanescent when all the three observed plates of a comet are in one great circle of the heavens: but it is easy to prove that if two celestial bodies be supposed to move uniformly in straight lines, one of them will be seen from the other to describe constantly the same great circle. aftrst Jpproximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 129 observation, and it cannot be entirely obviated mererly by pursuing new methods of solutions nor by pushing caltculation to greater degrees of exactness. The problem cannot be justly and usefully solved, unless such coefficients are excluded, and the result is obtained by means of quantities on which the errors of observation have no more influence than they ought to have. There are however some solutions of this problem to which the preceding observations must not be applied. Of this kind isthe method of M. BoscovicH; that of the celebrated LAPLACE-; and those which LEGENDRE has more lately published:+ all of which have been found useful in practical astronomy. The method of BoscovicH owes its utility as an approximation to the circumstance of introducing the velocity in the orbit as a principal condition: for that velocity depending upon the proaportion of the distances of the earth and the comet from the sun, limits the other conditions, and places the orbit in its proper situation. The same thing may be said of the methods of LAPLACE and LEGENDRE: and, in general, we may affirm that no solution of this problem can be free from the imperfections we have pointed out, in which the velocity in the orbit, or some equivalent property, does not enter as a principal condition. In order to place what has been said in a clearer light, it is to be observed that three complete observations of a celestial body are sufficient for determining the species, the magnitude, and the position of the curve in which it moves round the sun. On this account there is a superfluity of conditions when we* Mec. Celeste, Tom. I. Liv. 2, chap. +. t Nouvelles Methodes pour la Determination des OQbites des Cometes, iSc6.!MDCCCXW. S i 3o Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing: suppose the orbit to be 'a parabola : because, in this case, the velocity in the orbit furnishes an equation without introducing any new unknown quantity. Thus it happens, that in the problem of the comets there is one equation more than there are quantities sought: and by comnbining those equations indifferent ways, various solutions of the problem may be obtained. But it ought likewise to be observed, that if we set aside' the equation derived from the nature of the orbit, the remaining ones, in the actual state of the data, will nearly coincide with what would result fromn the hypothesis of a uniform. motion in a straight line: and although, theoretically speaking, we can solve the problem by means of those equations, yet we shall thus infallibly introduce coefficients that are small and ill defined, and unfit for any practical purpose. It is therefore necessary to include the velocity in the orbit, or some equivalent property, if we wish to obtain a solution useful in practical astronomy: and even when this mode of solution is adopted, it is still necessary to, examine with care the quantities introduced by combining the. other, conditions, in order to exclude the faulty coefficients we have been speaking of. It is of the greater consequence to discuss the peculiarities of this problem, because the observations of comnets are sts-ceptible of little accuracy even with the best instrumnents and the' greatest care, on account of the haze, or coma, with which tLhose bodies-are generally surrounded. Every solution of a physical problem which is deduced from quantities that are of the sanme order as the unavoidable errors in the data furnished by observation, can plainly be of no practical utility; and it is in this predicament that those coefficients statnld, which would afirst pproximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 18t vanish exactly on the supposition that the earth and a comet moved, for a short time, with uniform velocities in straight -lines. On the whole it appears from what has been said, that the same circumstance to which is owing the failure of Sir ISAAC NEWTON's first method of finding a cornet's trajectory, has produced like effects in many of the later solutions of this problem. This is indeed no more than what was to be ex, pected: and it must excite surprise that more attention was not paid to thepeculiarities of this investigation, after BOSCOvICH had fully developed the solution of NEWTOn, and shown the cause of its want of success. The English astronomer will find the methods of Boscovicri and LAPLACE, properly illustrated by examples of all the computations, in a work published in i by Sir HENRY ENGLEFIELD: in Which the author has judiciously selected all that is practically useful from the nu'merous writings on this subject at that time before the public. The method of LAPLACE would be rigorous, were it possible to find exactly the numerical quantities that enter into his formulas. These are the first and second differential coefficients of the longitude and latitude considered as functions of the time;e the values of which we can do nothing more than determine nearly by interpolating the observed places of a cornet. With three observations only, the quantities thus found cannot be expected to have much accuracy, more especially if the motion in longitude, or latitude, be quick and irregular, as often happens: and when a greater number of observations is employed, there arises a new cause of inaccuracy in the arithmetical operations necessary for interpolating, which augment S X 1392 Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing the errors of obsetvation, always considerable of themselves in the case of the comets. These remarks, which are certainly just, are made by LEGENDRE in his memoir on this proa blem, published in i8oG. That geometer therefore thinks it preferable to deduce the orbit immediately from the observed places of a comet: and, we agree with his opinion, that the observations will be better represented this way, than by employing the method of LAPLACE. With regard to the solutions of the problem which LEGENDRE himself has given, it will be admitted that they approximate sufficiently near to the ele. ments of-the orbit, to answer all the purposes of practical as. tronomy; but his formulas are complicated and the number of equations which it is necessary to form and to solve, seems to render his methods ill adapted for general use. It is the object of this paper to give a new -solution of this problem, which, while it does not yield to any of the known methods in accuracy of result, I Judge, will be found as commodious in practice as the nature of such a calculation can well admit. i. Let the coordinates that determine the position of a comet with regard to the ecliptic, and a straight line drawn through the first point of Aries, (which point is supposed to be immoveable) be represented by x, y, z; of which the 'last is perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic, and the other two have their origin in the sun'st centre: and likewise let the comet's distance from the sun, or the radius vector of the orbit, be represented by r. Farther, supposing the mean distance of the earth's orbit to be unit, put m for the length of "the circular arc of the mean motion described in a second of time then 7a the versed-sine of that arc, will be the space Safrst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comnet. through which the earth descends towards the sun in a second of time; and mz is the velocity produced by the solar force; therefore the direct velocity towards the sun produced by the same force acting on the comet at the distance r, is -r; and, this being decomposed into the equivalent velocities parallel to the coordinates, these velocities will be m" a y x3 re` spectively, which are the actual diminutions of the velocities with which the coordinates increase; but if dr represent the fluxion of the time, the diminutions of the velocities with which the coordinates increase, will be represented by -ddx d ddz therefore we shall have these equations, viz. mtn~ ddx m)y ddy mez ddz H ~dis r3 dar * r dare Now if we put v to denote the mean motion of the earth, proportional; to the time, and estimated by the arc of the circle whose radius is the mean distance, or unit; then dr2 will denote the same thing that is signified by m2d72 in the foregoing equations, which will thus become, AT rS ddx x dWn + 7= 0 ( ddz z df 5 A r3= Multiply these equations by 2dX, sdy, 2dZ, respectively; then, because 2xdx + Lydy + LZdZ 2rdr, we shall get by adding them 2dxddx+2dyddy+ zdzddz 2dr de' + o '0,; and, by integrating, dx%+dy1+d dill const. 4TS ~~r 134~ Mr. Ivory on a new Method of deducing To determine the constant quantity in this equation, it is to be observed that the first term is the square of the velocity in the orbit: if then we suppose the orbit to be an ellipse of whichf is the mean distance; f. ? the eccentricity; and u and u' the velocities at the perihelion and aphelion distances; the foregoing equation will become at those two points of the orbit, U, -=const, u--fib' =const. f(ii) = and if we multiply these by (1 e)2 and (i + E)2 respectively, and then subtract them, we shall get v (1-E) -u . (1+E) + f 4E x const. but u .f ( i_ -u'.f (i + g) o; for these quantities are respectively the doubles of the sectors described at the perihelion and aphelion in the time denoted by unit: hence const.: the foregoing equation will therefore become, dx2+dyz+f dz 2 Jr` r +f ? Again let the equations (i), multiplied by x,y, z respectively, be added to the last equation; then observing that xddx + 2 dd.-r yd~dy+zddz + dx2 +p dy2 + dz2 =--, we shall get dd. r2 I 2 d9 r + ff ? Let r0 denote the value of r, and 2p that of r at the epoch frorn which the time is reckoned; and further let the value of r2 be assumed in a series with indeterminate coefficients, as follows, viz. r_ ro= + 2PT + A-r + Br3 &c.: afrst Approxi"matihon to the Orbit of a Comet. I thmen = -o &C.; and if these values be substituted in the foregoing equation the coefficients A, B, &c. will be readily determined; which being done, we shall get r roo--j-&C. ro=rt+ 91pr 7 + f ro 3 c 73 & It is next necessary to integrate the equations (i). I begin with seeking an incomplete integral of this form, viz. S 1 + Cr2 + Dr3 &c.: and, having substituted in the first of the equations (i), s for x; and, for V its value taken from the preceding series for ri; I get, dds s 3T& d +ro* t rol by means of which equation, the coefficients in the series for s, are easily found: then 5 1 + b*o &C. ( 2 ) I now seek another incomplete integral of this form, viz., r+ E -r. 4 F. c and, having substituted afor x, I get, ddX + ;r * {, r&C.} =o; whence the coefficients of the series for awill be readily found; then = 6-rAt *r&C. (3). The complete integrals of the equations (i) can now be obtained, and they are x sxo+ a-r ysy0 += Sy + a dz 136 Mr. IVORY oil a new Method of deducing-^ where x? and d-xa which denote what x and dr become at the epoch, are the arbitrary quantities necessary-to complete the fluentand the same things are to be understood in the expressions of y and z. 2. Of three observations which are necessary to determine a comet's orbit, let the epoch, or the instant from which the time is reckoned, be made to fall on. the middle one; and let _ T denote the interval between the first and second observations, which precedes the epoch; and + '3d, the interval between the second and third observations, which follows the epoch; and further let x, y, z and r express the coordinates and radius vector of the comet at the first observation; ?, y0, ze, and re, the sa'me quantities at the second observation; and xi, y1, z', and r', those at the third: finally, let the values of the series denoted by s and o(Equat. 2 and 3) be taken for the intervals r and + r'; that is, let S1.X_ X L horo s I = -ok ~6rIP + ros To. + Prn t t I a' gO pa4ts then, on account of the equations (4), we shall get, dVo dx d.,y y =z dy` dzo I id X,+ C dx0 airst A.pproxirnation to the Orbit of a Comet. 137 = s'y + a' d 0 dip Z = S e + &d and if these equations be combined two and two so as to exterminate dxn dy0 dz We shall get 'ex + caXI = (a's + A-S') X Sty + Y-yz (a-'s +-s')y (5) 'z + oaz (aI's + s'I) tz: Finally let a" be written for (h's + as'); then, by substituting the series thatch, a-', s, s' stand for, we shall get -i+ ' ) _(r+T _ p (r-,(T ) 3 &ac. (6) 6. 6ro3 rol s. Employing the same marks as in the case of the coordinates, to distinguish the known quantities of each observation, I shall write, c, C, c'; for the three geocentric longitudes of a comet: x, o, x'; for the three geocentric latitudes: p, pt. p'; for the comet's distances from the earth: e, ea, e'; for the earth's longitudes: R, RW, R'; for the earth's distances from the sun: by means of which quantities, the coordinates of the comet at the first observation will be thus expressed, viz. x 1R cos. e + p cos. X COS. C y R sin. e + p cos. A sin. C z = p sin. x: and in like manner the expressions of the coordinates at the second and third observations will be formed by placing the characteristic marks on the several letters. By substituting the values thus obtained in the equations (S), we shall get these other equations, viz. MDCCCXIV, T 8 *Mr IVORY fon a new Method of deducing Tp COS. Xcos.c + ap'COS. Cos . c'-a-"p0 CuS.W COS. C0 = o-'R cos. e o-R' co-. e' + o-"R' cos. e 0-'p cos. x sin. c + o-p' cos. x' sin. e' + crp" cos. xA sin. c= (7) _4R sin. e o-R' sin. e' + -"WR sin. e0 a-lp sin. x + a-p' sin. A? 6"p0 sin. o. These equations are universally true of all orbits; and, in order to solve the general probLhnn of finding a planet's orbit, they require only to be properly discussed with the view of obtaining the values ofp, p0 p' by means of form ulas sufficiently exact and commodi us in practice: but, at present, I confine my attention to the case of the comets moving in parabolic orbits. 4 We may a~pply the equatiors (5), which are general-for all orbits to the orbit of the earth: let p, p', g' represent what a-, ', o-" become in the case of that orbit; that is (neg. lecting quantities of the fourth and higher orders), let (Ejuat. 2, , 6) (h 1' 6Rol I tF g-r(6+'os then, Equat. (5), 'R cos. e + 'R' cos. e' p'"R cos.e= o 'R sin. e + 4kR sin. el`R sin. eo. On account of these fortnulas, we have I-'R cos. e + R' cos. e' o-"Ri cos, e ( II) R cos. e + (T-) R cos. e'(o-") R cos. e and, by subStituting the series that a-, a-', -`; [ stand for, it the right 'hand side of this equation, and neglcting quantities of the fourth and higher orders, we shadl get afrst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 39 tR cos. e +L aR' cos. e' -a1110 cos. e? 6 .(ros3) . {rT'3Rcoste-3R'cos.e'+ (r+T')13RWcos.eo} or, which is the same thing, 0) cos. e +oR' cos. e'w"R cos. ee_ r .R?cos. e? * (rof .~a (R cos. e -1 cos. e) 6 (rt Ra ) *(R! co)s. e'R' czs. e? but (R cos. e R? cos. e') and (R' cos. e' RI cos. e?) are, quantitiesof the first order; consequently the two terms -that contain, them, will be of the fourth order, and may therefore be rejected: thus. we get6"'R cos. e + a-R' cos. e' -l cos. e ? ( cos. e?. And, in the very same manner it may be shewA-n that crR sin. e + o-R' sin. e'loR sin. e? '(+) (2 ;Fs . R? sin. eo. Let the values just obtained be substituted in the two first of the equations (7), and they will become 0)p Cos. x Cos. C + p' Cis. A' Cos. C.-' a," COS. A? Cos. C' a z (ros ~~R<,) cos. e )p cos. x sin. c +a-p' cos. sin. c' cr"p0 cos. x" sin. c?z * (ros ~ Ro3)*R sin. e?: Further let n denote an angle, to be afterwards determined; then, by combining the two last equations we shall readily obtain, a'p cos. x cos. (c -n) + a-p' cos. cos.. (c'-n) a-"p cos. X' x cos. (cn) , * ( Ro3. R cos. (e "on) T cs 140 Mr. IvoRY on a new Method of deducing p Cos. A sin. (cn) + Tp' cos. x' sin. (cw n) a-Up0 cos. xe '?Ir ,+1) I I x sin. (tn) -.a 2, Ito3-Ron sine (e-) Con'yt-isve a great circle to be drawn on the surface of the sphiere through the geocentric places of the comet at the two extreme observations; and let n, in the foregoing equations, denote the longitude of one of the intersections of that great circle with the ecliptic: also let h and 4h denote the arcs of the great circle intercepted between the same intersection and the places of the comet abovementioned; then these arcs will be the hypothenuses of two right-angled triangles of which the sides, perpendicular to the ecliptic, are the arcs A and A'; and the other sides, in the ecliptic, are the arcs. (c-n) and (c'n): further, let i denote the inclination of the same great circle to the ecliptic; then will i be an angle common to the two rightangled triangles abovementioned, opposite to the sides x and At; and, by the properties demonstrated in spherical trigono.. metry, we shall get these formulas, viz. cos. A cos. (c -n) cos. h Cos. XI Cos. (c'-n) cos. h' Co . x sn c-n o. 1si. X cos. A' sin. (c'-n) ==cos. i sin. hi sin. x sin. i sin. 4 sin. x sin. i sin. h. Now let these values be substituted in, the two foregoing equations, and likewise in the last of the equations (7), and we shall get, up cos. h+ a-p' cos. hi _ "p0 Cos. x? Cos. (ca -n) Z'~ * ("r3 -1.o3) R? cos. (e-n) (8) a first Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 141 T p cos. i sin. h + c-p' cos. i sin. h' --"p0 cos. x0 sin. (e'-n) = ?L?Q') (~ x-_3 . RW sin. (e n) (8) Up sin. i sin. h + uop' sin. i sin. h' "p sin. x2 = o: and finally if we subtract the two last of these equations after having divided them by cos. i and sin.i, we shall get t COs. x0bitn.(C0-f) sin A* _( ')TT' / I \ R sin (e 0_) P I -cos'. I sill. 1 2 lro3 ? | Cos. i Z $. In the last equation, all the terms being of the third order, we may consider a-" as equal to (r + r'): therefore, by division, we shall get o) cos. . tan.,x) =yr * I ~~ X sin.sin__ (c0-n) ~ ~ 3 7~Ro~ sinX n(c*-a sn.cn) -tan. i = 2*ro3' 3:*R or, by introducing a new letter, we shall have these two formulas, equivalent to the last one, viz. sin. ( .sin. (cW n) -tan. } ( sin.(e r -(I .0 4 x p =-Z (ok Ro/* R0. If we suppose all the three geocentric places of the comet to be situated in the same great circle of the heavens; then sin. (c0n) . tan. i = tan. x0: in this case therefore C= o, which requires that K= o, and ro _ RI. Thus we learn that a comet and the earth are equally distant from the sun, when the comet's apparent motion continues for a short time to be performed in one great circle of the heavens. Again if C be positive, then ;'will be positive too, and r0 will be less than R0: but if C be negative, then will likewise be negative, and r0 will be greater than R0. But there are two cases when C will be indeterminate, and the preceding rules Mr. IvoRy on a new Method of deducing will fail. This will happen when the comet moves exactly in the plane of the ecliptic, in which case i indeterminate, The same thing will likewise happen when the greaL circle which passes through the two extreme places of the comet cuts the ecliptic in the points occupied by the earth and the sun at the middle observation: for in this case, sin. (en) o; now since Ccannot become infinitely great, it is necessary C. ~~~~~tan. X6 that sin. (cO-n) taan. } vanish together with sin. (e0n), which will make ( indeterminate. The formula for A, which by its sign alone enables us to judge of the magnitude of r0, contains the angles X and i: and it is necessary to investigate rules for computing those quantities. By attending to what'n and i were made to signify it will readily appear that tan. tan. _ tan. A' tan. i = sin. (c.n) sin. (c'.n) letf tan +; then fsin. (c-n) sin. (c'-.n): but sin. (c-n) -sin. + n) cos. Cos. c) Sin. * t e ~~~~C'+ C-s C t+C * -C-? sin. (c~ ) =5 sin. c -n) cos. 2 C OS. n) -sin.2 therefore by substitution and division we shall get tan. (ti n ) = f+tX tan. ...X.... tan. ~ and, if . ... tane I tan. ad if = tarn.a a (450 +?); then I I~~~~~~tan. (? n)=?_ _ +t -+ tan. cot.' To the value of tan. -c' n), found by this rule, there abirst ipproximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 143 will correspond two arcs, diffcring from one another by 180o, wvbichl xvlil determine both the points of intersection of the great circle an d the ecliptic; blt it vill -be sufficient to take that one which immediately precedes the cornet in longitude. The arc n beiltg thus found, we have these formulas for finding i Viz. tan. A tan. A' tan. z i = _; sin. (c n) sin.(c'-n)' and the double value will serve to prove the accuracy of the calculation. But we may determine whether r0 is greater or less than R0, without any calculation. Let hI denote the arc of a great circle drawn from thle intersection whose longitude is n, to the geocentric place of the comet at the middle observation: then ho will be tlhe hypot lenuse of a right-angled triangle, having the arc (cD -) of the ecliptic for one side, and x, perpendi',cular to the ecliptic, for the other side: and if we fput i0 to denote the angle of the triangle opposite to ?, we shall have cos. X sin. (C0-. n) cos. jOsin. / sin. x0 = sin. ra sin. hI. Substitute these values in -the equation g)and we -shall get, by division, 0 s.n, -' . sR0 _r P sill. i Sin. (c?-n) z2 roV Ro. Cenceive two arcs to be drawn perpendicular to the great circle which passes through the geocentric places of-the comet at the two extreme observatioDs; -one, denoted by a, drawn from the extremity of le, that is, from the geocentric place of the comet at the middle observation; and the other denoted by riA drawn from ^the place in the ecliptic occupied by the earth at the same time: then, observing that sv will be one side of a right-angled spherical triangle, of which h0 is the Mr. IvORY on a new Method of deducing hypothenuse, and (ii1) the angle opposite to x; it is plain that we shall have sin. v = sin. (i'1) sin. hQ sin, rii sin. 1 sin. (e?n). Therefore, by substitution, the last equation will become sin. gr TVw I I pXsin.n ' t 3Ro3* RO. This equation is equivalent to the second of the equations (1o): and we infer from it that r' will be less, or greater, than RW, according as sin. r is positive or negative; that is, according as the arcs X and ni are on the same side, or on different sides, of the great circle to which they are both perpendicular. Hence if we mark, on the surface of a celestial globe, three geocentric places of a comet, and likewise the places in the ecliptic occupied by the earth at the middle observation; then the comet's distance from the sun will be greater than the earth's distance, when the great circle drawn through the two extreme places of the comet passes between the earth's place, and the remaining place of the comet; but when these two places are both on the same side of the great circle, the comets distance from the sun will be less than the earth's distance. When all the three places of the comet are in one great circle of the heavens, then X , and sin. r= o: and in this case, the comet and the earth will be equally distant from the sun. From these rules we must however except the cases in which sin. n = o : for, since -.i cannot become infinite, it is necessary that the numerator vanish together with the denominator, so that z will become indeterminate. This will happen, as a frst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 145 before observed, when the -comet's orbit coincides with the ecliptic, in which case sin. i o; and likewise when the great circle drawn through the two extreme geocentric places of the comet cuts the ecliptic in the places of the earth and the sun at the middle observation, in which case sin. (e0 n) o. The inferences here drawn from the preceding analysis coincide with the rules first given by M. LAMBERT, of Berlin, for judging of a comet's distance from the sun by the inflection of its apparent path. 6. The second of the equations (io) contains only one unit known quantity, namely p0: and hence it may be thought that we havp already, by means of that equation, obtained a solution of the problem, which is both simple and elegant. And' this would undoubtedly be the case, were it not that the coefficient t is always extremely small and greatly affected with the errors of observation. It depends entirely on the-deviation of the cornet's apparent path fromt a great circle of the heavens; and this deviation is often so little, that small changes in the observed places of the comet, by no means inconsistent with the errors of observation, will make t evanescent, or even take a different sign from what it had before. If we suppose the motions both of the earth and the comet to be rectilineal and uniform, which is never far from the truth in the short intervals that must intervene between the observations selected for finding a comet's orbit; then the apparent motion of the comet would be accurately in a great circle of the heavens, and the mode of solution here alluded to could not be applied at all. The equation here spoken of may no doubt be -usefully applied} in favourable circumstances, particularly-when the comet MDCCCXIV. U 146 Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducting is at a considerable distance from the sun, and has a slow moas tion, allowing an interval of 20, or even a greater number of days, between the extreme observations; in which time the apparent deviation from a great circle of the heavens will be considerable enough to define the magnitude of ' with tolerable'certainty. But in many circumstances the same mode of solution cannot be applied with advantage or success: as when a comet has a quick motion, which, will allow only a very short interval between the observations; or when a comet and the -earth are both at the same distance from the sun, or nearly so, in which case ' is evanescent, or very small. It appears then, that, generally speaking, the problem of the comets must, in reality, be considered as indeterminate, if we set aside the condition derived from the nature of the parabola. In this respect there is an essential distinction between the investigation of the orbit of a planet and that of a comet; a distinction which, when due regard is had to practical utility, renders it necessary to separate the particular case from the general problem. When the question is to determine a planet's orbit by means of three observations made at short intervals of time, without any assistance from the supposition of a circular orbit, or other hypothesis, the equations which the data furnish are barely sufficient for finding three radii vectores (f the orbit and the two angles contained between them; and there are no supernumerary-conditions to compensate what may be imperfect in the observations. In whatever manner we proceed, the solution will lead to an equation, such as that we have been speaking of; and the success of the investigation will therefore depend upon our being able to ascertain with some degree of certainty the magnitude of the coefficients afirsi Approximatiot to the Orbit of a Comet. 147 which that equation contains. If there were the same uncertainty in this case that both theory and experience agree in shewing there is in the case of the comets, the problem, as applied to the planets, would be a mere theoretical speculation without any practical utility. It may therefore be asked, what are the precise circumstances which make the investigation successful in the one case, while in the other we must seek aid from the nature of the orbit in order to obtain a useful result? In the first place, the observations of the planets are susceptible of a 'much greater degree of accuracy than those of the comets; which confines the uncertainty arising from the errors of observation within much narrower limits in the one case than in the other. In the second place, the distance of a planet from the sun is never equal, or very nearly equal, to the earth's distance from the same body; and this occasions a greater curvature of the apparent path than often takes place with regard to the comets. We may likewise add that the motion of a planet, in an orbit of moderate eccentricity, is slower than the motion of a comet at a like distance from the sun; which allows a longer interval between the observations of a planet, and thereby contributes to heighten the effect arising from the inflection of the apparent path. It is to these causes, as well as to the excellence of his methods of investigation, that we must ascribe the great exactness with which the orbits of the new planets discovered inthe course of the present century, have been determined by M. GAuss, in a work of great merit, on the Theory of theMotion of the Celestial Bodies, published in 809, which cannot but add much to his reputation, already very high on account of former scientific discoveries. U2 148 Mr. IvoEY on a new Method of deducing 7. If we put z _ _' ) . {sin. (co -n1)aii} tan e"* ) n.( ? tail. i then the equation (9) will become by substitution cos. A? g . (ro R') * Rcos. (e0-n)e and this value being substituted in the first of the equations (8), we shall get Ip cos. h + cp'cos.ph''pO cos. A?. {cos. (c?-n)-S}. But, by putting cos. x' tan, xA for sin. A?, and then dividing by sin. i, the third of the same set of equations will become I 0 0 ~~~~~~~~~tan. 7Q o-p Sin. h + cp' sin. h' 031p . COS. X sin, 2 Now if we make 1 ttan. A? tan.to cXs (c" n) s in. i Co.(* )then, by subtracting the two equations just found, after having multipli-d them by sin. w and cos, respectively; we shall get oep sin. ( h) --p' sin. (h'-.o) o whence sin. (w-b) e/ p = pXsin; (h1_ wt)* The value of obtained by substituting the series that 0 and o stand for, will be as follows, viz. a T 0 6-' } In this formula -uis evanescent when r = r'; and in all 6ro& cases it is a very small quantity; because the intervals of time between the observations made use of for finding a comet's orbit, should in no instance be extremely unIequal. If then we suppose .., we shall get these two formulas, viz. afrst roximation to the Orbit of a Comet. sin. (w-b) TrI 3 in. (b'=,j r (11) which are very exact, when the intervals between the observations are not too great. The angle to which enters into the preceding formulas, depends partly upon the value of the quantity &; and it thus becomes impossible to assign the value of that angle when S cannot be determined. If we compare S with the qia..tity formerly denoted by ((No. 5), we shall get = x Cos. A hence it appears that a will be indeterminate when C is so; and in such cases therefore the last formulas, will fail. Now the cases in which A becomes indeterminate have already been noticed (No. 5); they differ by a real distinction from the -other cases of the problem, and require a separate discussion, if we wish to have clear and precise notions on the subject of this research: we shall therefore return to the exa nination of them in the sequel. -8. On account of the formulas (il), the coordinates of the comet at the two extreme observations, will depend only upon one unknown quantity, namely p: and if we substitute the values of the coordinates in the following expressions, viz. r5 _ ~~2 1 2 4 t2 */X wrf|^t2 12 w+i V-y 12 Af Z there will result these other expressions, which contain no unknown quantity but P, viz. r2=R2+ 2R cos. A cos. (e-c). p + p2 r2 =R' + 2R' cos. x' os. (e').p+Pp ~~~~~~ +: V= RR cos. (el'c) 4 {RN A cos. 4-t -e (e.-c') + R' cos. ? x cos. (( c) } x f + C cos. p cos. y= cos. x CosA cos. (C'-b) + sin. < sin. X'. 150 Mr. tvoRy on a new Method of deducing We must now have recourse to the properties of the orbit to get such an equation between the functions, rs, 1I2 and V as shall serve to determine the unknown quantity which they contain. For this purpose we may employ the -expression which gives the time of describing an arc of a parabola, by means of the chord of that arc and the two radii vectores drawn to its extremities. This elegant property of the motion in a parabola, seems to have been first found out by EULER, as M. GAUSS informs us; but it is commonly attributed to M. LAMBERT of Berlin, who probably discovered it without knowing what EULER had done, and who has extended it to all the conic sections.* It would be superfluous to give here the investigation of a truth so well known: it will be sufficient to refer to the Micanique C~leste of LAPLACEt or to the work of M. GAUss. Let b denote the chord drawn between the places of the comet at the two extreme observations: then observing that v + a' is the arc of the earth's mean motion corresponding to the time of describing the parabolic arc of which b is the chord; we shall get T '=, { (r + r' + b)L-ir + r'-b)}: and, by expanding the radicals, + V, (b x P ? 6 r+Y=Vr~~t'. t4 -No-+" ). -&c 7 * T = sr + r'*{2 -^8 (r +r)'r 7 Z56 (r+rtr ce and, by squaring and omitting the sixth and higher powers of b, 4 ( + r)2( r-+ ). ti j* d} Leta =2r2 + 29r=2 (r + r) + (rr)=* Theor. rvot. Corp. Ccles. Lib. 1. Sect. 3. ? o6. j Pgrem4 Part. Lib. II Ch p, +. S at; ajlrst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. (r + r' )2 -I(r) then r + a 2 * as ) -8 * at / } and by substituting this value in the foregoing expression we get, nearly, 4(r + 'r')2 =a . b2 .{ i2 . a 2' (a I} consequently b a+' { 1+ 2 * as + 0 * which is exact to quantities of the sixth and higher orders. Now b' = (x-x')2 + (y _Y/)2 + (z-z2 x2 +2 + z2 -2 (xx' + yy + zz') + x12 +y'2 + z'2 r2 + r'2 2V: therefore in this last equation all the quantities concerned depend upon r2, r12, and V, which themselves contain only one unknown quantity, namely p: thus that equation will serve to determine p, or the comet's distance from the earth at the time of the first observation, on the finding of which the solution of the problem depends. 9. If wve now collect in one view all the formulas that have been investigated, we shall have the following method for computing the distance of a comet from the earth. ist. The symbols r and T denoting the intervals in days of mean time, between the middle observation and the first and second observations respectively; -we begin with computing the arc of the earth's mean motion in the time (r + r'); this arc we shall now denote by 0, and it will be computed by this formula, viz. 0 = 26 +T); 2 being the circumference of a circle whose radius is unit, and 365.25638 the length of the sydereal year; so tMat the logarithm of 0 will be found by Mr. IvORY on a new Method of deducing adding the constant logarithm 8.2355814 to the logarithm of We must next compute the angles n and 4 by the formulas investigated in No. 5: n being the longitude of one of the points in which a great circle drawn through the two extreme places of the comet cuts the ecliptic; namely, the longitude of that intersection of the two circles which immediately pre. cedes the comet in longitude: and i being the inclination of the same great circle to the ecliptic. We must further make these computations, viz. cos. h cos. A Cos. (c-n) cos. h' Cos. x' cos. (cl n). ; ! .5 ~~~~~~~in ~~~~ tan, I ____' itsin, (corn)} -tanl. (e*-n) ' tan.i I tan. A0 tan. e = S X = sin. (w-b) 'r sin. (h'_w)' COS. Y-Cos. x Cos. x' Cos. (c'.-c) + sin. x sin. xf. 2dly. We must reduce into numbers the following formulas, leaving p indeterminate, viz. r2= 12 + 21R coS. A coS. (e c) p + p2 r"=R 9+ 2R'I Cos.'COS. (e-.c'). Cp+s.P V=RR'Cos. (et-e) + {R Cos. A' cos. (e-c') + R' Cos. cos. (e' -c) } . p + i3 cos 8 p. 3dly. We must determine p by means of these formulas, viz. a2 = er + . 21". = 4=" {Z. + 1b *a .2 s)2} In the trials necessary for approximating to the value of p, afirst Approximation to the Orbitof a Comet. S5 the terms of the final equation, which are of the fourth order, being always inconsiderable; they may be omitted at first, and then only taken into the account when a near value of p has already been obtained. It has already been shown that c o'. ? whence ( Cos. x~ ? s (& C) . cos. A0; therefore, since cos. xA is in every case positive, the quantity c. n will have the same sign as C: and thus, from what is proved in No. A, we infer that the cometl's distance from the sun will be less or greater than the earth's distance, according as the sign of is positive or negative; and the two distances from the sun will be equal when 0 __ o. These observations will often enable us Cos. (e*.n) to assign such first values of p as will lead to a solution without many trials. The preceding method will always give one solution. To prove this: let B denote the chord of the earth's orbit drawn between the places of the planet at the two extreme observations; and further, let -R+R'+B COS. u =2 2 COS 1 R+R'-B then if we apply to the earth-'s orbit the formula for finding the time of describing an arc of an ellipse by means of the chord of that arc, and the two radii vectores drawn to its extremities ;* we shall get, 0 (u sin. u) _ (u' -sin. u'). Let cos. m X _ R+R: then cos. u =cos. m B; and* Mec. Celeste, Prem. Part. Liv. II. ? Z7 formule a.MDCCCXIV. X 154 Mr. IVORY on a new Method of-deducing cos. ut cos. m + 2 B: we may therefore suppose in series, u-sin u = M )-M(x) B +M(2) Bs M(3) BI . si . u U-1sin.u,= M(o)+M(i) B + M(z). B + M(3) B3 4~~~~~ where M(o) = m sin. m; and ) M(z) &c. are coefficients derived from M(0 : hence, 6 M(1) B H3)B O=M~'~B+M ~ -&C.:. and by squaring and neglecting the fourth and higher powers of B, we get, B2= but, from the theory of series, we get M(I) d. (m sin. m) _I _COS. m HI COS. M d. cos. m sin. I +rCos. m therefore ' =XC m (by substituting 3the value of cos. m) RR$-1. Let A2 2RE+ 2Rf2= (R + R1)* + (R -R); then we may substitute A for R + R', since quantities of the fourth and higher orders are neglected in the value of BW: consequently we shall have W A But, when quantities of the fourth order are neglected, the final equation oF the foregoing method will become b6 = 40 a. and B, R, R', A are -what b, r, r', a become, when p 0; thus it appears that b2 in less than 4a' when p = o. But as p increases ,Lat least after a certain limit, 6' will increase with out limit, andto will decrease without limit; so that, Wvhen afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 155 = , b' will be infinitely great, and ' will be infinitely little. a Therefore there will always be one value of p, between the limits o and cu, that will satisfy the equation b" = a so. Before applying the method here proposed to examples. it will be necessary to investigate the formulas by which the elements of the orbit are to be computed. Let u and u' denote the true anomalies of the comet at the two extreme observations; or the angles which r and r' make with the perihelion distance of the parabolic orbit; then in the triangle formed by r, r', and b, the angle opposite to b will be equal to the sum or difference of v and v': therefore b r + 42._ 2VT cos. (u + u') : but it has already been shown that b' are 4 r-2 SV: therefore V rr' cos. (v + v'). Let the angle contained by r and b in the same triangle, be denoted by A; and that contained by r' and b, by q': then it is plain that r-,' cos. (v ? VI) r ,t-r cos. (v v') COS = and cos. = b-: whence we get the following formulas for finding the angles cp and o', which are the angles that r and r' make with the chord b, viz. Cs P___ COs. =' r b observing that regard must be had to the signs of the cosines, as well as to their values in numbers. Again let Cos. = ..cosT4/zrb r, -COS. At= a then the angles 4 and I'd the cosines of which differ only in their signs, will be supplements of one another; and, as it is St Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing easy to prove from the nature of the parabola, they will be equal to the angles which the chord b makes with the axis of the orbit. From the angles thus found, the true anomalies are imumediately deduced: for u is equal to the difference of ? and 4; and u', to the difference of q' and 4/. Further, the time of passing the perihelion will be between the two extreme observations, when 4 and 4/ are both greater than X an-d p' respectively: otherwise the time of passing the perihelion will be before, or after, both the observations, according as r, the radius vector at the first observation is less, or greater, than r', the radius vector at the third observation. But these rules suppose that the angular motion of the comet in its orbit, in the interval between the extreme observations, is less than 180o, which, in fact, will comprehend all the cases that can occur in applying the method. The true anomalies of r and r', being known, the perihelion distance, denoted by D, will be found by either of these formulas, viz. V D r cos.22 To find the time of passing the perihelion, we must take the times corresponding to vtand V' from a table of the motion in a parabola; these times, being multiplied by Did will give the intervals between the two extreme observations and the time of passage. In order to determine the position of the orbit iin the heavens, it is best to begin with seeking the heliocentric latitudes: let these latitudes be I and 1'; then sinsin . S'n sin, sin. afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. apt Let E and El denote the two angles of elongation (or the differences of the geocentric longitudes of the sun and the comet ); and C and C', the two arigles of commutation (or the differences in longitude of the earth and the comet): then r cos.) sin. C . . sin. E ro* CoS. I * by means of which formulas, the heliocentric longitudes of the comet at the two extreme observations will be known. Let TNn represent the ecliptic; K and K', the places of the comet in the ecliptic, determined by the -heliocentric longitudes already computed PK and PK', the circles of latitude, and KC and K'C' the heliocentric latitudes already found; and lastly, let NCC'n be the great circle in which the plane of the orbit meets the heavens: then although it is possible that the comet may pass from C to C', either by describing the small arc CC', or the arc which CC' wants of a whole circle; yet from the nature of the case, no ambiguity can hence arise, because in finding a first approximation to the orbit of a comet, the arc CC', which emnbraces the whole motion in the orbit in the interval between the extreme observations, will never cont tain a great number of degrees: it is therefore easy to infer whether the comet has increased, or diminished its longitude in passing from C to C'; in the first case, the motion of the comet is direct; in the second case, it is retrograde. Nor can there be any difficulty; or amnbiguity, in distinguishing the Ascending Node, through which the cornet passes from the south, to the north, side of the ecliptic., The ascending node is marked, in the figure, wvth N the descending node, with n. Mr. IvoRY on a new Method of deducing The arc CC" is the measure of the angle at the sun's centre, contained by r and r'; and it is known by means of the true anomalies, since it is + v', or, by means of the formula, Cos. CC' = v : PC and PC' are the complements of the heliocentric latitudes; and KK' is the difference of the heliocentric longitudes. Now in the spherical triangle CPC', we have sin. CC': sin. P, or sin. KK': sin. PC' or cos. I': sin. C; and in the right-angled triangle KCN, of which the angle N is the inclination to the ecliptic, denoted by I; we have Rad. : cos. KC, or cos. 1 :: sin. C : cos. I; therefore by combining these two proportions, we get sin. KKW cos. ICOS = . / cos. 1'. The resolution of the right-angled spherical triangle KCN, will give the longitude of the ascending node, and the place of the perihelion on the orbit. For the side KN is the difer-. ence in longitude between the comet at the first observation and the ascending node: and the hypothenuse NC is the angular distance on the orbit between the same node and the comet at the first observation; and from this it is easy to find: the angular distance between the node and the perihelion, which will fix the place of the perihelion on the orbit. i. In applying the preceding method, the examples inl LEGENDRE'S Memoir and the supplement to it, have been purposely taken: first, because these make a selection of instances greatly varied in their circumstances: secondly, because the results obtained by the formulas investigated in this paper can thus be compared with his, and other methods, and with the corrected elements, which are likewise given in his Memoir. afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 159 Application to the second Comet of 1781. The following observations of this comet, which was discovered by M. MECHAIN,.are taken by LEGENDRE from the Mem. de l'Acad. des Sciences, for 1780:* they are all reduced to the same hour of every day, namely to 8h 29' 44" mean time at Paris. Observation. Longitude. North Latitude. Longitude of G. Log. of R. September. * 14 (,307 14 tX 55 17 9e, 52 54 2 R, 9994864 19 C,03o6 51 26X,0 39 14 48e,)57 57 411,0 9R99 426 | 24 c,'o6 42 LX0,' 31 4 52e,'63 0 4111,' 99994028 By applying the directions and formulas of No. 8, I have found, Log. 460 9 0732228 3o600 19' 5 i 89 21 27 =-0 0000970 390 14' 49" h= 5, 17 28 h'= 31 o log. 3 0o2892147 cos. 9' 99600258 With regard to the three principal formulas of the orbit, I remark that it is the logarithms of the coefficients, and not the coefficients themselves, that are afterwards used: on this* Nouvelles Methodes, pa 33i ? xxxii. i 6o Mr. IvORY on a new Mle ethod of deducing account it is convenient to denote the coefficients by means of their logarithms: which is done, by writing, for instance, num. (9.482480) for the number whose logarithm is 9'482480. The formulas of this orbit, expressed in the manner here proposed, are as follows, viz. re 00976625 num. (9'482480) X p + P r'2 = 0o972873 num. (o-16353cd) x p + nurn. (o0 78429) X P' V = 0959610 num. (9.847341) x p + nuln. (o0249241)xp2. We are now prepared to approximate to the value of p; for which purpose we must seek a first value as near the truth as we can. Now, in this instance, c is positive, and very small: hence, we may infer that r will be less than R, but, approaching near to an equality with it. Let us then suppose K-=2 = o*976625; and we get p = num. (9-48248o) o'3037; or p _ o nearly. By substituting oo for p, we get 2 r = o09755o8 r`= or876635 V 0ogo8288 b2 r2 + 's2V.= 0 35567 as = 2r + gr'2 = 3 704286 . . log. o0s687c44 log. a = o-2843522 -. by-4 -? oo25932. The error here having the same sign as in the supposition p =o (No. 9); we hence learn that p is greater than o E. Suppose p 0=4, then r= 1015136 = C-996083 V= o 96X188 aftrst Aqpproximation to the Orbit of a Comet. i61 b = o-o86843 a 4-0o22438 ... log. o00044892 log. a -oSo22446 b"-4 = + o0o27826. This error is nearly equal to the former, but it has an opposite sign: hence p will be nearly =o?5Suppose p = 0" 5 then '= 099282 1 r/2 = o 926888 V = oQ93o8oo b* = 0o058 log as 3-839418 . log. o5842654 log, a-= 02921327 b2 = ooo2298. a By comparing this error with the last, we get a nearer value of p, viz. p -= ': and the approximation is now far enough advanced to take in all the terms of the final equation in making the next substitution, viz. p = 0-354: then r_ o0994422 r=0931729 V 0932985t b, o-o6oi8i = 3'8523o2 ... log. 0-5857202 log, a -029286o1 + z 3 ( t 2 + bI*a =1013 b, > 1P001434 0000212. -MDCCCXIV. Y 'Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing In order to get another equation to compare with this last, I resume the equation of the suppOsition, p = o)?50, and correct it by taking in all the terms of the final equation: then a X1o 1434 =OO2385: and now by comparing the two errors I finally get p 0o3439. This value being substituted, the result is as follows, viz. re= o994580 r= 0932205 V 0o933200 2 = o0o60385 a2 = 3'853570 ... log. o0858633 log. a -29o9316 b-x 1oo0 434 + o00000o2. Having now obtained -the exact values of p, r', r'1, V and b6, it remains to deduce the elements of the orbit from them. Now we have (No. lo) r~ COS. cp *,* (p ='750 29' 43"1 -7= Cos.4/..'4=97 25 50 Anomaly v =21 56 7 rb= COS. '. ' 90 14' 25" -b -Cos.' .4'=82 34 10 Anomaly v' 7 40 15. For the perihelion distance, we have D r cos.0,. log. D99828o82 D r' cos." 2 . log. D 9'982808& D = op961188. aftrst z4ppbro mation to the Orbit of a Comet. e By a table of the emotion in a parabola II have found the intervals corresponding to u and v', as follows, viz. 616s 36days, and 5g5198 days log. 12 076773 0`74419 233 log. D= 9-9742123 9*9742 123 1so8l8896 07161356 Num. 15 2016 Num. 5 216. These are the intervals between the two extreme observations and the passage of the perihelion, which according to the rule in No. 10, will be posterior to both the observations: therefore the comet will be in the perihelion, NTov. 2956, or Nov. 29, 13h 20 +0 M. MECHAIN has applied the method of LAPLACE to this comet, using as the basis of his calculations, five observations between the 24th and 25th of November.*' LAPLACE'S method gives rules for finding two elements only, viz, the perihelion distance, and the timeof arriving at the perihelion: for the sake of comparison, I now subjoin the results of M. MECHAIN; the same elements calculated by LEGENDRE from the observations used here; and the more exact elements corrected by distant observations. PeriheEon Time of PasDistanre. sage Nov. 29. M. MECHAIN by LAPLACES Smethod o9,g585o9 18 Io0 34 LEGENDRE _ o6o449 t 18 19 In this paper _ _ Ao6ii88 13 20 4 Corrected elements .90O99 1X 42 46* These calculations are given in BiO T'S Astron. 2d Edit. Vol. MII. 164 Mr. vrnr on a new Method of deducing I have likewise computed the remaining elements of this orbit by the rules laid down in No. to, and I have found them to be as follows, viz. Inclination --27* if 00" Place of the ascending node 77 56 :3 Place of the perihelion I 5.,59 = 8 The method here proposed will represent the two extreme observations exactly; so that all the error of the solution will fall upon the middle observation. I have therefore employed the elements found above, to compute the geocentric place of the comet, Nov. 19, 8 29' 44", in order to compare it with observation. The result of this calculation is as follows, viz. Calculated Observed Calculated ObservedE Longitude. Longitude. Latitude. Latitude. :6 so ie 9 14 48 ,14 306 51 3o3o6 5t 26+ 439 14 343 In LEGENDRE'S memoir I find a like comparison of the corrected elements with observation; the error in longitude being + too"; and the error in latitudet55". It appears then that the errors of the elements found here are almost nothing, and even much less than those of the corrected elements. Application to the Comet of 1769. The places of this comet set down below are not derived from actual observation; they are calculated by LEGENDRE from the known elements of the orbit.* In this instance therefore, the inaccuracy of the results is to be attributed, not to* Nouvelles Methodes, p. 43, ? XL. afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet.. the errors of observation, but solely to the defects of the method. Timets | Longitudes. South Latitudes Longitudes of ED. Log. R. Sept. d. h., 8 14c, 101 i8 8 x, 22 14 35 e 346 35 31 R, o oo26648 10 14 co 112 51 31 X0,23 28 15 e,348 3 22 . 4 3 _12 4c', 124 26 47 A',23 48 36 e',350 2 9 20R',oo021838 From these data, I have found log. 402 8-2773428 n = 3g 292' s6" i = 23 48 49 = + o ooo6684 = 800 o 3 945"/ h = 69 38 21h' =o 9 8 25 log. 0' =0071924 Cos. r_ 9 969 1708. r -P1012347 -num. (9'8913194) x p 4 p' r'= lv0 1 7-flo7-num. (o 1132 123)xp+ num. (0.0143848)xe V-i oo8888-num. (oo0104917) x p +numr..(9'9763632)xpe. In this instance cs(en) is positive: therefore the comet is nearer the sun than the earth: hence p z num. (908913194), or p o0778. In order to get narrower limits, I take p = ?2L77 =o389, or p --o4, for a first approximation; then i66 M. IVORY of a new Method of deducinq = o86o9o3 V= 0.750632 bl, + r'* V o0ol6009 a = 2r + 2r"# _ 3'034546... log. o0482o936 log. a = 0o24o10468 Ir 4a + O'005137. As this error is positive p must be diminished: therefore suppose p = ox3; then 0=o868764 r' =0-713794 V =0786784 = oo8ggo a', 6i G6i. . . log. 0o5003896 log. a = 0-2,501948 b__ = =-o oooi6s^. a By comparing the two errors it will appear that p is between o32 and o 33: suppose p-= o?3, and because the errors are now small, let all the terms of the final equation be taken into account; then o8643o6 r"= o694396 V = o7739B5 2^, ooio8o2 a' = 3117404 ... log. 0-493793o log. a o'2468965 +I ( j + T2 '9 a = 1-001774 afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. i67 2t=4 X 1-0017744 = o+0?oS7 h.,e t>e ast value of p is too great, let p o-'32: then r* o0864426 rI* 0*6950-1 V ?77435 1 b'0010736 at =1i 8876... log. o04939875 log. a 02469988 19 Lx 1 001774 0o000007. a By comparing the two last errors we finally get p 3 O'329,11 then r= o 86441 S 0694945 V -0774307 b1=_ 0'010743 a2 3' 18714 ... log. o4939760 log. a _ o28o 1 4X 1-001774 = 0* a From the values just found, we get log. r = 9-9683604 log. r' = 9 9209752: and the angle contained by r and r', the cosine of which is V will thence be found = 9' 31' 3511. These quantities are sufficient for determining the parabola described by the comet ; and as they are the immediate results of the method, the fairest way of judging of the exactness of that method, seems to be, to compare them with the true values calculated fronm the i68 Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing known elements of the orbit. Now the elements employed by LEGENDRE in computing the places of the comet used in this example, are these, viz. log. of perihelion dist. 90ogo847 Time of passage, Oct. 7'531 o from which data I have calculated the radii vectores and the true anomalies for the 8th and i2th of September at 14h, as follows, viz. September. J Log. of Rad. Vect. Anomaly. d. h. 8 14 9 968361 137 17 35 12 14 9.920961 134 46 1o Angle between r and r' 3 1 25 These quantities differ very little, from the results obtained above: the errors are indeed hardly greater than the dis-. crepancies which it is difficult to avoid in a complicated cal. culation, viz. first computing the geocentric longitudes and latitudes, and then going back from these to the elements of the orbit. The exactness of the approximation is sufficiently proved by the comparison already made: but I have likewise calculated these two elements, viz. log. of perihelion dist. 9'091920 Time of passage, Oct. 7*5403 the perihelion distance being T--!-th part too much, and the time of passage about 13j' later than the true time., These errors, althbougll very *;mall, are yet greater than might be jlrst Approximatzon to the Orbit of a Comet. 169 expected, considering the exactness with which the comet's distances from the sun, and the included angle, were determined: but a very little variation of these quantities will produce a great alteration in the magnitude of the parabola, when the angle contained by the radii vectores is so small as it is in this instance. Of the twvo comets to which the method in this Paper has been applied, the first varies very slowly in longitude,and very rapidly in latitude; the second, on the contrary, has a quick motion in longitude, and a very slow motion in latitude: in both instances however the intervals between the observations are equal ; and I now proceed to give other examples where this condition is not observed. Application to the second Comet qf 1805. The following observations are the same that LEGENDRE has used for determining the orb't of this comet :* they were communicated to him by M. BOUVARD. Times November Longitudes. North Latitudes. Longitude of ED. Log. R. _ _ ~~~. ,, 11 _ . _ 23'32241C, 24 41 5 B7 2?5 i9e,61 8 23 R, 9-994204? 30-51095 c, 15 38 36 X, 19 25 6 e',68 25 47 R, 99936655 December 5'295S1ct, 2 6 33 A', 3 19 2C e',73 17 5 R',9'9933784 Calculating from these data, we get log. 461 9 2296576 n =3590l '8I* Suppleinent aux nouivelles Methodes, j 30, p. 36.MDCCCXIV. Z 170o ,Mr. IvorY on a new Method of deducing 1 50 '30 11" A'* 00-o oo393i8 t 250 211 33It h =36 38 322 h'4 i8 27 log. -r o8,566407 log. _ o6798693 log. = 9-5593803 COS. _ 99268248 r = o 97366. + nuim. (o-1489016) x p + p2 r'-0o9g69967 + num. (9 3618159) xp+ num. (9 187606) xp2 V = g095oo62 + num. (9-8819026) x p + num. (9 4862051)xp2. In this instance, the form alone of ra shows that r > R; and likewise that r increases continually as p increases: we will therefore make different substitutions for p, increasing the value when the error is negative, and decreasing it when the error is positive. First, let p o'1: then =124556 r,= o0994286 V= 1o29316 b e + r' 2V = 0060210 a= 2r + 2r J 4V-237684 ... log. o-6271286 log. a 0-3135643 bl L _00022221. a Next, let p = 2 ; then 1= -295456 rill Lo021234 V 1 14698 bh= o'o87294 a frst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. ,7a = 4633380 .. . log. o 6658978 log. a = o3329489 bt-7 + 0o008oG61. A comparison of the two errors will show that p = o17 nearly: this value being substituted, we get r = P 242087 r= 1 012874 V= i o88439 b= o078083 a= 4509922 ..0. log. o065169o log, a03270845 b2 ? 0=001822. a By comparing this error with the last, it will be found that e is between 0 175 and o176: I therefore put p = 0' 176; and as the errors are now small, I employ the complete final equa. tion: then r2 = s'52617 r'l= 1P014527 V 1'093647 62 = 01079850 a2 = 4'534288 1.0 log. o'6,565091 log. a = 0o3282546 2( a a 2846 -a x 1.0 02oo-846 _ oooooG67. I next put p0177: then K 1'=254378 12 _ o1C 3,;_ 7.Z 172 -Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing V 1-094516 b o=o8o149 as= 4-588362 . . l log. o-6568991 log. a = 0-3284496 b6-iX 1 002846 + 0o000268. From the two last errors we finally get p = 0-i7620; 5 which must be substituted:their = 1-1252969 r 1= 01458s V= i 093821i 2= 0o00799o9 a2= 45351052 . e log. o-6,65888 log. a = o-3282944 x 1-002846 0, From these values we get -=s-cos *.p (p 590 481 14' r -V rb Cos. (P * 1o 9 So rrl f2 ~COS. A = + COS. bt*. 1 a 1130 21/ 4,5/i 66 38 15 anomalies { U i = 50331 31(1 = 41 = -39 31 15 Then, to find the perihelion distance D, we have D = r cos.' 2 = 9-9504285 logarithms D _r' cos.s v' S4S D r os,'-2 9-9504285. The times corresponding to the anomalies, taken fromi ab table of the comets, are as follows, viz. afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. '73 days 4501 35 days 3o8044 log. 1'65330-8 log. 1-4886127 log. D1 9-9256427 log. D; 9Q9256427 15789855 -1 P4142554 Num. 37-9303 Num. 95'9570 hence the time of passing the perihelion is fixed for Dec. 31-2527. By making the rest of the computations in No. io, I have found the following elements of this comnet, viz. Log. perih. dist. 9950429 Time of passage, Dec. 25 2527 Inclination ,6' Co' ?37" Place of ascend. node 250 33 34 Place of perihelion log 20 21 Motion Direct. LEGENDRE, from a comparison of all the observations of this comet, which are only six in number, has found the following corrected elements, viz. Log. perih. dist. 9'95 02700 Time of passage, Dec. 25'28551 Inclination i 631' 10o" Place of ascend. node 9 33 3A Place of perihelion log 23 39 which differ very little from those found above, and prove the exactness of the approximation by the method in this paper. Neither of these two systems of elements represent the observation of Nov. So, with much accuracy, the errors in longitude amounting to between + 2'? and + 3': on which account it is probable that there is somne peculiar inexactness in that observations Mr. IVORY on a new Method of deducing Application to thefirst Comet of i8o5. This comet was discovered by M. BOUVARD: and LEGENDRE has given us five observations communicated to him by that astronomer.* Of these observations those which I have selected for the purpose of computing the orbit, are unfavour.. able in several respects. For, besides that the intervals between them are too unequal, the whole time elapsed, which embraces a heliocentric motion of no less than 25?, is rather too long: and it happens that the comet is placed with regard to the earth and the sun, so as to approach very near the limit, when, as has been remarked in No. 9, the method wvill fail. A better choice cannot however be made from the observations recorded by LEGENDRE, without interpolating. Times. Longitudes. North Latitudes. Longitudes of Q9. Log. R. October. o 0 J , 0 0 22-6849 c, 163 20 53?A, 22 59 53e, 29 19 5o R, 9-9974f21 3o06867 0, 183 48 32X,\'15 37 21 e,)37 19 48 13, 9996496 November. 3'7209 c',191 46 15x s,12 2 29e, 41 2s 26 R', 9996053 In this instance, we get log. 402 99234t873 nf 34' 58' 31-P" i= 28 25 49 = 4 o09246945 146' 17' 25" h =124 51 I him=l54 0 41* Suppletment, p. 14, ? Is azfrst ApproImation to the Orbit of a Comet. log. T = 09031887 log. 9 = 0o6057574 log. 3 = 0 1372458 COS y 9941 1400 = o'988192num. (0o104392) , p + p8 r"=o 0981987 -nurn. (0.36396 2) . p + num. (o 274492 ).p V = o96304num. (o244138) . p + num. (o0o78386) . p* In this instance 7-7--is positive; and therefore the comet is nearer the sun than the earth is: hence p < num. (o01o4399), or p < 1.270. To get narrower limits I assume p = 2 o 635, or p 3 G o-; then r2 -O58,516o 742 o*e7L2317 V 0341949 bI= 0173579 a? =1714954 .. l og. 0-2342388 log. a 3 0'1171194 b 4b = + o0o42642. This error being positive, the value of p must be diminished: therefore suppose p = o5; then re = o'6o9,a332 7_ 0 29(6528 V 08385 35 b 0' 127590 a2 V797720 .. log. 0o54722o log. a= o i/ 6iot 0 000297. 176 Mr. IvorY on a new Method of deducing Here the error being very small, it will be proper to take in all the terms of the final equation: then, 2 . V O08 1 + a (rr)2 % _12028 b2_ 4X 1'o2038z = 0-00290o. a It now appears that p is between o16 and o , but much nearer to o 5: therefore put p = o5t -; then r2= O'5997 14 =0-292413 V= o03880190 b2= 0131747 a = 1l784254 .. log. 0'25014566 log. a = o01257283 1+2 (a) + . * = b24-4 X 120984 = + o.ooo685. By comparing this error with the last we get p = o'o8 , which must be substituted; then r= _ o-600o97 2= o0 29i363 V = oQ'81205 b2 = 0130950 a= -i78672o l log. 0`52o0565 log, a = -0 1G0283 b x 1vo2086 = io'05ooo . a The approximation has already been pushed farther than was requisite: for, in this instance, the terms of the fourth order affect the errors in the third place of decimal figures; afrist Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet. 177 and therefore the terms of the higher orders, which are omitted, nay be supposed to affect, the errors in the fourth and fifth places of figures, beyond which degree of exactness the approximation is already carried. To compute the elements of the orbit, we have r--= cos.. 38 38' 6" r -J cose4. 4130 8 21' Anomaly = p91 30 151' rb cos p '.' = 16' 42' 6k" =COSYi'.i49 51 382L Anomaly uv'i-AG 66 50 28. V -Thlen, D-=r cos.2 2 =9*5765635 logarithmts D r' cos.2 = 9_,5765635. The tihes correspondincr to the anomalies, taken from the table, are days 114o048 days 62-1248 log. 2'o,570877 log. 1i79j2G5O log. D', 9 3648453 log. DE', 93648453 P421930 1 1581103 Num. 26-4200 Num. 14$39g16: the difference of these two intervals is 1 2 0284 ; but it should be 12-0360: I therefore add o oc38 to the first, and subtract it from the second interval; then they are ?64238 and 143878: and by adding these corrected intervals, to the times of the observations, the time of the comet's passing the perihelion will come out, Nov. 181io87. MIVDCCCXIV. A a 178 Mr. IvoRY onl a new Method of deducing Having completed the rest of the calculations in No. 10o, the elements of this comet will be found, as follows: viz. Log. of perilh dist. 9x5765635 Time of passage, Nov. i8 -to87 Inclination I5 40' 17 Place of ascend. node 345 7 39 Place of peri. 148 '1 7 Motion direct. These elements will not represent the two extreme observations with perfect accuracy as in the other examples, on account of the correction which it was necessary to introduce, in order to annihilate the difference between the time in the orbit and the actual interval between the observations: but the errors proceeding from this cause will be inconsiderable, and can hardly amount to 20." If we employ the same elements to calculate the place of the comet, Oct. so 6867, we shall find these results, viz. Geo. Long. Geo. Lat. Calculated 1830 51' 2o" o 361 37" Observed 183 48 32 15 37 21 error + 2 48 error 4 These errors are in reality less than might be expected, considering the disadvantages under which the computation of this orbit is made. LEGENDRE has given a system of elements -hiiclh represents the observations of the comet very exactly, .the greatest error not exceeding 1'and, for the sake of cornp~arison, I likewise subjoin these elements viz. Log. of peni. dist, 9574798 Time of passage, Nov. Hi01736 Inclination 1At 5 8' 12" afirs Approx2rnalion to the Orbit of a Comet. i79 Place of ascend. node 3450 6' 51 Place of the peri. 1-9 o 28 ig. The method of finding a first approximation to a comlet's orbit, investigated in this Paper, has now been applied to four examples in very different circumstances from one another and the results obtained in them all are satisfactory. These instances will suffice for making the 'rules of calculation clear, and for confirming the accuracy of the analysis from which they have been deduced. It remains that we now consider the particular cases, already noticed (No. 7), in which this menthod fails. If a new planet should be discovered that moved exactly in the plane of the ecliptic, three geocentric observations of it would not be sufficien't for finding its orbit. The latitudes being wanting in the circumstances here supposed, the longitudes alone would not furnish conditions enow for determining the magnitude and position of the curve which the planet described. The same thing will likewise happen in another situation, when the latitudes, although not evanescent, yet depend, all of them in the same way, upon the longitudes; and that is when the three geocentric places of the planet are situated in one great circle of the heavens which cuts the ecliptic in the points occupied by thie earth and the sun at the time of the middle observation. This last case may indeed be considered as -intcluding theformer ones, when the plane of the planet's orbit coincides with the -ecliptic. With regard to the comets it must be remembered that three complete observations are more than sufficient for finding an orbit and on this account there are still conditions enow, but no more than enow, to determine the elements sought, in the A a X ISo Mr. IvoRY on a new Method of deducing circumstances abovementioned in which the problem becomes indeterminate when applied to the planets. We shall therefore proceed to analyze this case, which has already been noticed as forming a real distinction in the problem we are considering. Resume the three following equations which have already been investigated in No. 4, viz. a.'p cos. h + o-p' cos. h4' o"p0 cos. A COS. (COn) _ X('r') . ( ?R c'os) I R? ' S 0e-n) c-p cos. i sin. h + op' cos.i sin. h'r"p cos. A? sin. (c?-n) (.ig Z.*)R? sin. (e?-n) cip sin. isin. sin. i sin. hi-a-"p sin.x! _o: and employing h? and i0 to denote the same things as in No. ^S, let thle follovi g values found there, viz. COS. xA sin. (co-n) = cos. i? sin. h0 sin. xA? sin.1i0 sin. h4 be substituted in the two last of the equations above; then these eq ations will become, r'pcos. i sin. 4 + oyp' cos. I sin. h4 /'cos. io sin. 4h 2 . (roA3 ) * 1 R? sin. (e--n) Uip sin. i sin. 44+ op' sin. i sin. 4 ' p sin. z sin. 0 =Q= 0: further let these two equations be added together, after being multiplied by cos. i and sin. i respectively: then we shall get p sin. h + a-p' sin. 4-r Jp? cos. (i-i?) sin. h40 (1W j o -g) R9 cos. i sin. (e?-n). In the particular cases we are considering, either i i?o or i and iO are both evane cent; in both which cases cob., (i-it) =i. And if we attend to the analysis in No. S, it will appear afirsi Approxi nation to e Orbit of a omnet. L that, in every case, sin. (ii) is of the second order; andt hence cos. (i-9), diffiering fromn i only by quantities of the fourth order`,may generally be regarded as equal to unit. T. he last equation will therefore become, ar'p sin. h + p' sill., W _ 'po si n. W3 _ kw T , (ro3 _ o3 R' cos. i sin. (e n): and, if this equation be combined with. the first of the three equations set down at the beginning of this article,* so as to exterminate p0 and p', we shall get, &psin. (h?-h) -p' sin. (Ih'-h?)= rr? .)(Ax-13)R . { cos. (e?n) sin. I0 cos. i sin. (e -. n) cos. h} t-p sin. (Jz'-1) c'pr sin. (h'-h?)=32 T+) 3R3 { cos. ( e-n) sin. h'-.cos. i sin. (e?-n) cos. h'} Observing then that _ and -> = r+, nearly; if we put B. = .(r+) R? cos. (e0t-n) sin. o-. cos. i sin. (e?-n) cos. hb 2 * ' sill. /J,-b?/ Sill (b'-b) IV sin. (b'-b) V we shall get, = sin. (b.) O ' B, B p X sill. O'-b) *T r0 3 R.3 the quantities of the second order being omitted in the expres-ion of pb; ecause p? is only to be used in valuing B which is already of' the second order. If we substitute the values of the coordinates (No. 3), in the expressions 7 =0X2 ,+y Y+Tz-; 72 +y2 +z'; r xz +/ 2 + z'2; V xx'4+ y+ z w; we shall get I n this equation cos. b1 must be written for its equal cos. O oCOS. (0_-n).Ise Mr. IvORY otf a new Method of deduc ing ro= R .4' + 2R? cos. A? cos. (e?-c?) . E* p + S'. p, =5 R2 2R cos. AcsO (ec) + p IJ= R't + 2R' cos. xi cos. (e'c') . p' . e'2 V RR' cos. (e'-e) + R cos. x' cos. (e c'). + R' cos. x cos. (e'c) . cos. fe Cos. y denoting here the same thing as before. The first of these formulas, which determines ro? when g is given, will enable us to compute el when the value of e is known or assumed, by means of this formula found above, viz. = ~ sin. (hh) ?r B B n W T+ r 3 Thus the values of the functions, r2, rfa and V will depend only upon one unknown quantity, namely g; which may therefore be found by the help of the, same final equation as in the for. mer method. The preceding analysis leads us to the following method for determining the orbit of a comet, viz. iSt. We must begin with computing the values of 8, n, and i4 as in the former method. We must then calculate cos. h = cos. x cos. (c.-n) cos. h0 cos. xA cos. (c -n ) cos. Jh' cos. x' cos. (c'-n) s in. -b0 h . s-.r si si. ( (b' -b) T *R B= (T+)cs (e?:_n) Sin. bG cos. i Sitll. (CO-n) CO.0 cos. cOS. x Cos. X' cos. (C 'c) + sin. x sin. x'. 2dl y. We must reduce into numbers the several coefficients df the formmulas, viz. .6e_ Ro+ RR cos. x' cos. (e0? co) .e x X + S x _ sxrn.(bS.b) ' R B t : s~.(S-3*X+ rX i afjrst dpp roxz ntion to the Orbit of a Comet. Ha e = W + 2R cos. x CoS. (ec) .e + e rf R' + jR! cos. Al cos. (elc') X + e' V RR' cos. (ele) + R cos. x cos (e'c) + R cos. As cos. (e c') . ' + Cos, 7. q'. ,dly. We must employ the samee final equation as in the last method, to determine A, upon which the values of r2, rf2, and V all depend. Applicaton to thefirst Comet of :i8o5* If we turni to the calculation of the orbit of this comet, by 'the former method it will appear that the intersection of the great circle which passes through the two extreme places of the comet with the ecliptic is very near the place of the earth at the middle observation; for the distance of these two points, or the arc e?n, amounts to no more than 2? ai' W6U. This Instance therefore is very near the limit when the former solution becomes indetermi'nate;which takes place when the arc eln is evanescent, or when the points abovementioned coincide. In these circumstances we can hardly expect that the orbit will be determined with much certainty: for, on account of the small divisor tan. (en), the values of S. and the angle a, will suffer considerable variations when small ,changes are made in the observed places of the comet, more particularly in the mean place. This comet therefore furnishes. a very proper example for applying the method we have just 'iv stigated. Using the same observationsas in the former calculation,. we shail get, log. 40 c 912341873 n_ 058 o 3t1Q11/ 1;840 ~Mr. IvorY on a new Method of deducing i28 25 49 h = 124 5 1 h= -4t 29 34 1':54, 0 41 log. O'042397 log. 3 84,57324. cOs 7 = 9-941140 And the principal formulas of the orbit will be 2= 0o98399 -num. (o0244576) . e + num. (o0o84795) . = num. (o'o79127) g + numn (8.457324) 0 r-0029365 = _o0988i92 num. (0o104392) . + g tt = 09 819g87 num. (o0226675). (' + g V oQ963404num. (9'683982) . num. (9.967035). -'tnum. (9 941140) g' In order to shorten calculation, I shall assuime o ,5 wvhich is very near the true value, as will appear from the former computation of this orbit: then rot= 40~4*5O . .. log. 9,6069 185 9-8034592 log. r9'4103777 log. '-9 841343 1 r 0'599714 r2 = O'294039 V =0o338287 Q 1) 12 ta+ r/2 2V = 0 1 28005 a 2. I' 2r2 .4. 2r1-'2 = 7875o6 log. 0.252 2476 log, a = 01261238 2 '(a3~ 2*a 1'02059 P X 1'02059 ooo2888. afirst Approximation to the Orbit of a Comet, 183 I next put e -5o,; then = e 3994,6 ... log. 9Go 14733 9-8007366 _ log. r03 09 22099 log. e _ 9-850o88 r = O5970298 r12 0-290041 V 0=377429 = 0-132481 a.= 17`74678 ... log. 0o2491196 log. a = O 245,598 1+ az + l a;r =102121 b2 L X 1'02121 + 0.001037. a By comparirng the two errors, we shall get = o$174; which must be substituted then 0 040075... log. 9 6o28735 9-80IL4367 log ro3 9.4043102 log. e'= 9-847881 0-= 597907 42 = 0 291041 V = 0o37882i b2 o 0131 30 a 2 I'777896. .. log. 0`249882o log. a= 01249410If we interpolate iVo2oQg anid voi2121, which correspond MDCCCXIV I B b 186 Mr. Ivomr-on a new Method, &c. to the two preceding values of Ad we shall get 02ito6 for the present value of the -same quantity; then bSxi X-o2 1o6 o. If we calculate the orbit from the values of t7 gem r2, r12 and b2 that have just been found, we shall get the following elecments, viz. Log. of perihelion dist. 957491 o Time of passage, Nov. i&8o2G6o Inclination 1 5 551 4711 Place of the ascending node 345 X 8 Place of the perihelion 148 Ad 7 These quantities'come surprisingly near the corrected elec ments of LEGENDRE: and, without further calculation wve may presume that they will represent even the middle place of the comet, Oct. 3oth, within a minute of a degree. Although the method of this article has been investigated for the purpose of supplying the deficiency of the former method, it is nevertheless quite general, and will apply in all cases whatever: and perhaps of all the methods hitherto proposed, this is the one in which the results will be least affected with the errors of observation. Perhaps too we are warranted in drawing this conclusion from the contents of the preceding paper, viz. that a first approximation to the orbit of a comet may be deduced from three geocentric observations that shall come nearer the true elements than has usually been thought. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P/'u 9, , c rr. Z A W D C C C X W f/ate I V > vats c/U74,', i .CIL 7II if Ic. 