E l9 j R E S E N T S RESCEN~r-BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY,From November 1817 to June i818. WITH THiE NAMES OF THE DONORS. 1817. PRESENTS. DONORS. Nov. 20. Valor Ecclesiasticus Temp. Hen. VIII. auctoritate The Commissioners of regia institutus. Vol. III. 1817. fol. Public Records. TransaCtions of the Geological Society. Vol. IV. The Geological Society. pt. 2$ London, 1817. 40 Urh-Chch-Tsze-Tee-nSe-YsanPe-Ke'au, being a Dr. Montucci. parallel drawn between the two intended Chinese Dictionaries, by the Revd. Robert Morrison, and Antonio Montucci, LL.D. London, 1817. 40 Commentationes Societatis Regim Scientiarum, The Royal Society of Gottingensis Recentiores. Vol. 111. ad A. Sciences of Gottingen. MDCc c.xiv-xv. Gottingx, I8 16.4 Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar for The Royal Academy of Ar 1 z & x8i6. Stockholm, I8x5. 80 Sciences at Stockholm. A System of Chemistry, by Thomas Thomson Dr. Thomas Thomson. London., 1817 4V 0ols. 80 A Treatise on the Nature and Cure of Gout and Dr. Charles Scudamore. Rheumatism, by Charles Scudamore, M. D. London, 1 17. 8 An Essay on the Nature of Heat, Light, and ElecCharles Carpenter Bomtricity, by Charles Carpenter Bompass. London pass, Esq. 1817. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol.VIII. pt. I. The Medico-Chirurgical London, I 817. 8 Society. Racconto Istorico della Vita di Gio Battista della Francisco Colangelo. Porta. Napoli, I8I3. 8? Tableau du Clitmat des Antilles et des Phe'nomenes M. de Jonnes. de son Influence sur les Plantes, les Animaux, et l'Espece Hutmaine, par A. Moreau de Jonnes. Paris, 1817. 8? Nov. 2o. Experiences qui font connaltre quIon ne peut adM. B. G. Sae, mnettre l'Iniiouite de lPEau de Mer distilleV par B. G, Sage. Paris, 1817, 80 Me'mouires Mlistoriques et Physiques, par B. G. Sage, Paris, I817. s Extracts (in Russitan, Latin, Germ anoand French) Charles Etter, Esq. from the Regulations of the Imperial Library at St. P te sburgi. St. Peter sburgh, 85I4. 3o Canon Pelianus, sive Tabula simplissimam Aqua. Car. Ferd, Degen. tions celebrati"s ixi yle zax+ i Solutioflem pro singulis u meri dati valoribus ab i usque ad booo in niners ikationalibus iisdenque. integris exhibens. Auct. Car. Ferd. Degen. H^aunix, 1817. 1 2. Observations on the Casual and Pe riodical Infu. Thomas Forster, Esq. cnc oef particular States of the atmosphere on huran Uiealtb and Disease, particu1arly Insanity. By Thomas Forster, F. L. S. London, I8S 7 Observations on the Phenomenan of Insanity, by Thoi-ias Forster, F. L. S. London, IS17. So Astronomisches Jahrbbch fuir das Jaher Sg. Professor J. E. Bode. Berlin, I 8 s 6, 8 Annals of Philosophy, No. s6 to S8. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Mornthly Review from July to Oct. IS 7, and Mr. G. E. Griffiths. Appendix to Vol. LXXViIJ. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 231 to 234. Mr. A. Tilloch. The European Magazine from July to Oct. 1817. The Editor. Histoie de I'Astronoinic Ancienne, par M. DeM. Delarnbre. lambre. Par is, 1817, 2 Vols. . 4t Tables ecliptiques des Satellites de Jupiter, p)ar M Delaibre. PaIris, 1817. 40 Essa; historique sur le Probliene des Trois Corps, M. A. Gautier. oU Dissertation sur la Thiorie des Mouvemens de la Lune ct des Planzetes, Ab~straction f ite de leur Figure, par Alfred Gautier. Paris, I87. 40 Traite des Caracteres physiques des Pierres preM. l'Abbe Haiy. cieuses, pour servir a leiur De'termination lorsqu' elles ont etc taillees, par M. I'Abbe' Haiiy. Paris, 1817. 8o Transactions of the Horticultural Society of LonHorticultural Society of don. Vol. HI. pt. 6. London, 1817. 40 London. Physiological Lectures, exhibiting a General View Mr. John Abernetby. of Mr. Hunter's Physiology, and his Researches on Comparative Anatomy, by John Abernethy, F. R. S. London, 1817. 0o The Zoological Miscellany, being Descriptions of Dr. W. E. Leach. new or Interesting Aninals, by William Elford Leach M. D. Vol. III. London, 1817. 8s Os Lusiadas, Poema Epico de Luis de CamoEs, nova Dom Joze M. de Sotzlua -edisaY correcta, e dada a luz por Dom Joze Botelho, Mlaria de Souza Botelho. Paris, I8 17. 4 "17 PRas NT ])SOETS t. zo Vetusta Monumenta, Plates ux.vii.. of Vol V. The Society of Antiquaries. Archaologia (zd part o Vol. XVII 1) .r Miscei laneous Tracts relating to Antiquity, published by the SocietyLnf Antiquarles of London 1 817 .40 Flor' Cape isi tens PIlantas Im ontorii lonx Car. Pet. Tunberg Spei Afrc? seclnidhim nSystema Sexuale erneni daturn red-I-as ad1 Cl. sses, O3rdines Genera, t Species, c nt difretntiis specificisi synoniymis, et desc ptioidbus. Volu. I. fsc. x. Usali 1817. 80 Dissertatio Botanica de Dsac tna. Professor C. P. Thunberg. Reformandx Pharilacopc im Suecicw, Specimen 6 et 7e D. D. Musetim Naturl iUm Academii Upsaliensis App. 9, et 11-17. Report of the Committee of the HIon. House of William Tooke, Esq. Commons on the Employtmet of Boys in Sweeping of Chimneys, together with the Mi. nutes of Evidelce taken before the Committee, and at Appendix. London, 1817. 80 27. Calculumn Differentiz Longitudintim Geographi Dr. F. Gul. Toennies carum Locorurn duorumn ubi Observatio Stellal a Luna occultata facta est, explicavit simulque calculurn conjunctionis Veneris cum Regulo, Anno 1817 expectandwa, ct Indicem Erratorumn inTabulis Solis ac Lunz., quas edidit Le Bureau des Longitudes de France,adjecit Fridericus Gulielmus Toennies. Dr. Ph ilos. Berolini, iS i 6. 80 Observations sur le Systeme vMetriquie des Peuples M. P. A. Latreille, Anciens les plus connus, applique aux distances Itineraires, par P. A. Latreille. Paris, 1817. 80 Chart of the Variation of the Magnetic Needle for Mr. Thomas Yeates. all the known Seas comprehended within Sixty Degrees of Latitude North and South, with a new and accurate delineation of the Magnetic Meridians, accompanied with suitable Remarks and Illustrations, by Thomas Yeates, 1817, 2 sheets. Dece 11i. Inaugural Address delivered in the Chapel of the The Corporation of the University of Cambridge, Dec. ii, i8i6, by 'University of CamJacob Bigeloxw, M. D. &c. Boston, i817. 8? hridge, United States. Annals of lPhilosophy, No. 6o. Dr. Thomas TIhomson. Philosophical Magazit e No. 235Mr. Alexander Tilioch. Monthly Review for November. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. European Magazine for November. The Editor. 818. AJan. 8. Quomodo ex 0bservatione Occultationlis Stel1 Frid. Guil Toenlifes. fixz a Luna effecta Longitudo Geographica Loci observationis computetur explicavit Frid. Guil. Toennies Berolini, i8i6. 4" C ]22 j 18I8. PRESENTS. DONORS. fan. 8. Astronomisches Jahrbuch fir das Jahr I Szo. Berlin Professor Bode. 1817. 8 Essai Philosophique sur les Probabilites, par M. The Marquis de Laplace Le Comte Laplace 3eme edition. Paris, I 8 I 6. 8o M4e'noire sur le Mouvement des Fluides dans ks M. M. P. S. Girard. Tubes capillaires, et l'Jnfluence de la Temperature sur ce Mouvement, par P. S. Girard Paris, 1817 4? Memoit sur les Mesures Agraires des Anciens 'gptienS piI'1ll. P. S. Girard.. fol. Observations stir la V dIEgypte t r l'E.x-haussei-ent SC*l-*.' d( u 1 Sq la recouvre, par M. P. Girard .l Magna Blitannika, bon, a conc'se 'opograp)hical Revd. Dan. Lysons, and Atcou& the s'v'r' ro nt s F )r> 1ritiin Samuel Lysons, Esq. by the Rev. Daniei Lysons, A, M. ald Samuel Lysons, Esq. i. Vol7. V> L , S b7 0 Librorum i'm ressortm q i M .0sco ritannico 'he Trustees of the adservantmr Catalog us. 4ot. ix 8x &c. British luseum. Vols, LN./I8 Medico chirurgical Trans'ictions, phblis ed by The Medicd-J and Chi' the Medical at d (hirur'gical Society, }o*fo' 1. rurgical society. London, 1817 8 A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 8. Tho M ag rs of the hov,, fl stitution, Annals of Philosophy, No. 6i. Dr. 'J7hornas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 236. Mr. A. Pilloch. The Monthly Review or Decerber. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazi we for Deces ber. The Editor. Descrizione ed uso di una nuova Scala da appli; Sig. Jacopo Bertoncelli. carsi al Barometro per conoscere l'altezze dei luoghi senza calcolo, di Jacopo Bertoncelli. Verona, 8I 7. , 8" The Life of Robert Fulton, ly his friend CadwalDr. David Hosack. lader D. Colden. New York, 187. 8 A Geographical Descriptio s of the State of Loui_ siana, the Southern part of the State of Missis. Sipi and Territory of Alabama, by William Darby. New York, 1817. so Observatiots ot the G;eologv of the United States _ _ of Aerica, with some emarks on the effect produced on the nature a d fertility of soils by the Decomposition of the differeIt classes of R.ocks, yWilliam Maclure. Philadelphia, I817, Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of TheAcadeny of Natural Philadelphia. Vol. 1. Nos. z and 3. Sciences at Philadelphia. Report of a Committee of the Litinean Society of The Linnean Society of New England relative to a large Marine Animial, New EtBgland. supposed to be a Serpent, seen near Cape Ann., Massachusetts, in August, 1817. Boston, 1817, ISIS. PRES NHarts. Doriops. ian. s15. The Nautical Almanac and Astronornical EphieThe Commissioners of meris for the years i81.9 and 8 2o. 50 the Board of Longitude 22. Connoissance des Tems pour l'An i8mo. Paris, Le Bureau des Longii8Ise . 80 tudes de Fr:7i-s9>tre Feb. 5. As tronomische Beobachtungen auf der Koniglichen Professor Besae,. Universitats Sternwarte in Konigsberg von F. W. Bessel, zweite Abtheilung vom i Januar bis 3 I Decem. l 8 i 5. Konigsberg, i 8 I S. fol. Annals of Philosophy, No. 62. The Editors. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 237. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix Mr. G. E. Grifliths. to Vol. LXXXIV. The European Magazine for January. The Editor. 12. Annales des Mines, Vol. I. and Nos. I, 2, 3, o Le Conseil GeneraI des Vol. II. Mines de France. Surgical Essays by Astley Cooper and Benjamnin Astley Cooper and Benj. Travers, Part I. London, ix8. 80 Travers, Esq. i9. Marine Surveys, lo Sheets, by Officers in the The Court of Directors Service of the Hlon. East India Company, viz. of the Hon. East India A Chart of Goa and Murmagoa Roads. Company. A Survey of the Reef and Point of Palmiras. A Survey of the River Choo Keang, or Tigris. A Survey of Canton River. Plan of Oie Haie Harbour. TrigonometricalPlan of Ki-san-seu,or Zea-oo-Tao Harbour. A Plan of Mathurin Bay. Continuation of the Coast of China from Breaker Point to Lamak Island. Charts exhibiting the Tracts of the Hon. East India Company's Ships, Discovery and Investigator, in the Yellow Sea, when accompanying the Embassy under His Excellence Lord Amherst. Plan of Appo Shoal and Islands adjacent. Index Testaceologicus, or a Catalogue of Shells, Mr. William Wood. British and Foreign, arranged according to the Linnean System, &C. by W. Wood, F. R. S. and L. S. London, i818. 8@ The first Centenary of concise and useful Tables Henry Goodwin, Esq. of complete Decimal Quotients, &c. by Henry Goodwyn, Esq. London, I 8 i 8. Q A Meteorological Map of the Weather at Kinfauns Lord Grey. Castle. N. B. For the year 1817. z6., Nos. IX. X. XI. XII. XIII. of Addenda et Cor. The Hon. Francis Henry rigenda to the Edition of the Hippolytus SteEgerton. phanephoros of Euripides, by the Hon. F. H. Egerton. 4? Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History Society, The Wernerian Natural Vol. II. pt. 2, for the years 1814, i8i5, i8i6. History Society. Edinburgh, i 8 i 8. 80 MDCOCXV1II .3 Y 524 J 1818. PRESENTS. DONORS. March S. Narrative of an Expedition to explore the River Mr. John Murray. Zaire, usually called the Congo, in South Africa, in I8i6, under the direction of Captain J. K. Tuckey, R. N. I 8 I8 40 Appendix to Vol. I. of the Synopsis Morborum, Dr. Robert Robertson. and preface and title page to second Edition. The Transactions of the Linnean Society of LonThe Linnxan Society. don. Vol. XII. pt. x. At Annals of Philosophy, No. 6 The Editors. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 5 1. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Monthly Review for February. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazine for February. The Editor. A Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles The Trustees of the in the British Museum, with Engravings, British Museum. Part III. London, j8x8. 40 Precis Historique des Memoires publics sur l'Eau B. G. Sage. de Mer. Paris, I817. 8? But de la Nature dans la formation quotidienne du Sel dans l'Eau de Mer. Paris, I 8 I 8, 8? Petition de B. Sage, &c. 'a S. Ex. le Ministre de l'lnterieur. Paris, i8i8 80 Phenome'nes que pre'sente le destruction des Corps des Animaux apres leur Mort. Paris, 1817. 80 Iz. A Course of Instruction originally composed for Lieut. Col. C.W. Pasley the use of the Royal Engineer Department, by C. W. Pasley, Capt. R. E. London, 1814, 3 Vois. 8 Essay on the Military Policy and Institutions of the British Empire, by C. W. Pasley, &c. &c. 4th Edition, part i. London, 1814 8? The Elgin Marbles, with an abridged Historical The Revd. Be I1 Burrow. and Topographical account of Athens, by the Rev. E. 1. Burrow, A. M. &c. London, 1817, Vol. I. 80 Elements of Conchology according to the Linnean System, illustrated by 28 plates drawn from Nature, by the Rev. E. I. Burrow. London, i81i. 80 Traits complet de Mecanique appiiquee aux Arts, M. I. A. Borgnis. par M. J. A. Borgnis. Paris, 818. 40 Supplenient a La Theorie Analytique des ProbaLe Marquis Laplace. Eilites. 40 On the Effects of Compression and Dilatation in Dr. David Brewster. altering the polarising Structure of doubly refracting Crystals, by Dr. Brewster, LL. D. Edinburgh, i8i8. 40 Verbesserung der Luftschiffahrt von Erasmus Erasmus Lennig. Lennig, Mainz 1818. 120 April 2. Annals of Philosophy, No. 64. The Editors. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 239. Mr. Alex. Tilloch, The Monthly Review for March. Mr. G. E. Griffith~, 1 8 I,8. P RESE N TS. flONORS, April ;z The European Magazine for Marcht. The Editor. Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 9. The Managers of the Royal Institution. A Map of the North Polar Regions, by Henry Lieut. H. M. Leake, Martin Leake, Lieut. R. N. R. N. 9. Transactions of the Society instituted at London The Society for the Enfor the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, couragement of Arts, and Commerce. Vol. XXXV. London, i8i8. 8? &C. Is it possible to Free the Atmosphere of London William Frend, Esq. in a very considerable degree from the Smoke and deleterious Vapours with which it is hourly impregnated ? Trattato Teoretico Pratico su la Raccolta del Nitro Pietro Pulli. di Pietro Pulli, Tomo I. Napoli, 18 I 3. &? Statistica Nitratria del Regno di Napoli del CaY. Pietro Pulli. Tomo II. Napoli, 1817. 8 6. The Travels of Marco Polo, a Venetian, in the William Marsden, Esq. x3th Century, translated from the Italian, with Notes, by W. Marsden, F. R. S. &c. London, 18I8. 40 Merkwurdige Phanomene an uned durch verschieDr. J. F. WATerneburg. dene Prismen-zur richtigen Wurdigung der Newtonschen und der von Gothischen farbenlehre. Von Dr. J. Friedrich Werneburg. Nurnberg, 1817. 40 Ueber die zeitheridge Bestimmung der Dauereines pendel Schlags und der Fallhohe in einer Sekunde, von Dr. J. Friedricn Werneburg. Eisenach, 1817. 40 Meteorologisches Jahrbuch von 1 8 14 urd 1 8 l 5,von Professor Stark. Canonicus Augustin Stark, &c. Augsburg, 1817, 4to0 A Plaister Cast of the late Charles Burney, D. D. The Rev. Charles Parr EBurney. 23. A Dictionary of the Chinese Language, containing The Court of Directors all the Characters which occur in the original of the Hon. East India Chinese Dictionary in 32 volumes, compiled and Company. published in A. D. i7i6, by order of H. M. Kang-He, Emperor of China, by the Rev. R. Morrison. Vol. I. part I and z. Macao, i8I5i86. 40 Dialogues and detached Sentences in the Chinese Language, with a free and verbal translation in English. Macao, 1816. 8? The Principles and Application of Imaginary Benjamin Gornpertz. Quantities. Books 1 and 2, by Benjamin Gompertz, Esq. London, 1817 and 1818. 40 30. Practical Observations on the treatment of the Sir E. Home, Bart. diseases of the prostate Gland, by Sir Everard Home, Bart. Vol. II, London, i8i8. so Remarks on the Organization of the Corps of The Author. Artillery in the British Service, London, i8i8. 80 5 ,6 1 1I~lg. PR ESETS. YNORS. April 30. Me'moire sur la Marine des Anciens, par J. M. M. J. M. Henry. Henry. Paris, 1817. 80 Annals of Philosophy, No. 6g. The Editor. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 240. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. .7May 7. Reflections concerniiyg the expediency of a Council Rev. Samuel Wix. of the Church of England and the Church of Rome being holden, with a view to accommodate Religious Differences and to promote the unity of Religion in the Bond of Peace, &c. by Samuel Wix, A. M. &c. London, 1 8 1 8. 80 The Monthly Review for April. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazine for April. The Editor. 21. Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, The Imperial Academy Litterature et Beaux Arts de Turin, pour les at Turin. Annees 181I-1812, z Vols. Turin, 1813. 49 Memnoires sur les Int6grales definies, par M. Plana. M. Plana. 40 ?7. Memoire sur les Oscillations des Lames Elastiques, _ par M. Plana. 40 Xlemoire surla Latitude et la Longitude de l'Observatoire de l'Academie de Turin, par M. Plana. 49 Memoires Geologiques sur les Terreins formes sous M. de Ferussac. l'Eau douce par les debris fossiles desMollusques vivant stir la terre ou dans leau non salee par J. Daudibart de Ferussac. Paris, 1814. 40 z8. Histoirelu Passage des Alps par Annibal, par J. M. J. A. De Luc. A. De Luc. Geneve, ixSi8. g Notice Historique sur M. Moysant par M. Herbert. John Spenser Smith, Caeti. 80 Esq'. Annual Report of the Royal Academy of Sciences, _ Arts, and Belles Lettres, and Society of Agri. culture and Commerce of Caen. Considerations respecting Cambridge, more partin SirJames Edward Smith, cularly relating to its Botanical Professorship. London, i 8 i, 8S A History of Whitby and Streaneshalh Abbey, Rev. George Young. with a Statistical Survey of the vicinity, to the distance of 25 miles. by the Rev. George Young. Whitby, 1817, 2 Vol. 80 June 4. Transactions of the HorticulturalSociety of LonThe Hoiticultural So-. don. Vol. II. pt. 7, and Vol, III. pt. i. London, ciety of London. 1818. 40 Additional Bye Laws of the Horticultural Society of London. London, is17. 4 An Introduction to Entomology, or Elements of Rev. W. Kirby. the Natural History of Insects, with Plates, by W. Kirby, A. M. and W. Spence, Esq. (third edition.) London, 18I8. 80 Monographia Apuim Anglix, or an attempt to divide into their natural Genera and Families such species of the Linnean genus Apis, as have been discovered in England, by WV. Kirby, A. M. Ipswich, I802, 2 Vols. 527 J t8I . PRESENTS. D0O*NS. June 4. The Family Shakespear, in Ten Volumes, in Thomas Bowdler, Esq. which nothing is added to the original Text, but those words and expressions are omitted which cannot, with propriety, be read aloud in a Family, by Thomas Bowdler, Esq. F. R. S. &c. London, i 8 I 8. 12?0 Memoir relative to the Annular Eclipse of the Francis Daily, Esq. Sun, which will happen on September 7, X 80o, by Francis Baily. London, 1 8 I S. So Report of the Committee of the London Infirmary The Committee of the for curing Diseases of the Eye, occasioned by London Infirmary for the False and calumnious Statements contained curing Diseases of the in a Letter addressed by Sir William Adams to Eye. the Right Hon, and Hon. the Directors of Greenwich Hospital. London, I88. so Syllabus of a Course of Botanical Lectures by S. S. Rootsey, Esq. Rootsey, F. L. S. to which is prefixed a Poem upon the Importance of the Study of Botany, by Mrs M. Turner of Bath. Bristol, iSiS. ia 2 Annals of Philosophy, No. 66. , 'li"le Editors. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 241. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Emuopean Magazine for May. The Editor. The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Mr. G. E. Griffiths. Vol 85. Shums ool L1oghat, or a Dictionary of the Persian J. Barretto, junior, Esq, and Arabic Languages, the Interpretation being in Persia-, comprising also. such words cof the Turkish Language as occur in the works of Persian and Arabic Authors, compiled from original Dictionaries of authority in those languages by learned Natives, under the inspection of Joseph Barretto, junior. Calcutta, i8o6, 2 Vols. A Dictionary of the Persian and Arabic Languages, by Joseph Barretto, junior. Calcutta, 1804. Z Volumes. 80 Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe The Trustees under the Observatory at Oxford from May I, 1817, to will of the late Dr. May I, j8i8, by the Rev. Abram Robertson, Radcliffe. D. D &c. Fol. MS. Transactions of the American Philosophical So. The American Philoso, ciety held at Philadelphia for promoting useful phical Society. Knowledge. Vol. . New Series. Philadelphia, -Essai Sur l'Ordre consider6 dans l'Administration M. A. Jullien. publique et dans les Sciences, par Auguste Jullien, &c. Paris, i8t8. 8 Chart of the Strait of Sunda, by James Horsburgh, James Horsburgb, Esq. 1 sheet. IN D E X TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 18i8. A page Acid, lithic or uric, description of an aci(d principle prepared from it, 42 0 Amphibia, on the urinary organs and secretions of some of that class of animals, 30 firc on the Meridian, an abstract of the results deduced from the measurement of one, extending from latitude 80 9' $8" 4, to latitude 180 3' 23", 6, N. being an amplitude of5 '4",2 45486 Asia, a memoir on the geography of the north eastern part of it, and on the question whether Asia and America are contigluous, or are separated by the sea, 9. A'tronomical observations and experiments, selected for thepurpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of investigating how far the power of our telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when directed to ambiguous celestial objects, 429 Atmosphere, of the correction for the buoyancy of it, 6a Axes, on the character, number, and position of those by which the tints are produced B Blood, on the changes it undergoes in the act of coagulatioll, 172 ---some additions to the foregoing paper on this subject, 185 INDEX. Blood, globules of, in the human body, their diameter measured, I 173 are neither of the same size, nor the same shape in all animals, 174 Braces, diagonal, on the great strength given to ships of war by the application of them, -1 BREWSTER, DAVID, LL. D. On the laws of polarisation and double refraction in regularly crystallized bodies, 199 BRINKLEY, JOHN, D. D. On the parallax of certain fixed stars, 275 BURNEY, CAPT. JAMEs. A memoir on the geography of the north eastern part of Asia, and on the question whether Asia and America are contiguous, or are separated by the sea, M 9 C Caloric, new experimental researches on some of the leading doctrines of it; particularly on the relation between the elasticity, temperature, and latent heat of different vapours; and on thermometric admeasurement and capacity, 338 Capacity, on the doctrines of, 378 Celestial objects, of a method to represent the profundity of them in space by adiagram, 451 remarks on those that are ambiguous, 460 _.... ambiguous, of the extent of the power of our telescopes to reach into space when they are directed to them, 466 Chlorine, on the fallacy of the experiments in which water is said to have been formed by its decomposition, 169 Crystals, on those which produce double refraction, 205 on those with one apparent axis of polarisation, 210 Crystals, a list of those with one apparent axis of double refraction and polarisation, 211 on those with two or more axes of polarisation, 221 on the polarising structure of those that have the cube, the regular octohedron, and the rhomboidal dodecahedron for their primitive form, -54 on the laws of double refraction in those with any number of axes, 2 67 doubly refracting, a table of them -!07 INDEX. Cr stals, doubly r-efracting, on the artificial imitation of all the classes of them by means of plates of glass, 259 D DAVY, StR HuiMPHIRYi, BART. On the fallacy of the experiments in which water is said to have been formed by the decomposition of chlorine, 169 New experiments on some of the combinations of phosphorus, 316 DAVY, JOHN, Mr. D. On the urinary organs and secretions of some of the amphibia, 303 Delphinus Gangeticus, a description of its teeth, 417 Fibres, muscular, examination of them, 1 75 Fossil remains of an animal, additional facts respecting some, on the subject of which two papers have been printed in the Philosophical Transactions, showving that the bones of the sternum resemble those of the ornithorhynchus paradoxus, t4 Functions, circulating, and on the integration of a class of equations of finite differences into which they enter as coefficients, 144 G GRANVILLE, AUGUSTUS Bozzi, M. D. On a imal-conformation of the uterine system in women; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308 GREATOREX, THOMAS, EsQ. Observations on the lleights of mountains in the north of England, Greens, animal, 117' H Heart wood of trees, on the office of it, 137 HERSCHEL, JOHN F. W., Esq. On circulating functions, and on the integration of a class of equations of finite differences into which they enter as coefficients, 144 HERSCHEL, SIR WILLIAM, KNT. GUELP. Astronomical observations and experiments, selected for the purpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of investigating how far t'he power of our telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when directed to ambiguous celestial objects, 4g9 INDEX. HOME, SiRP EVERARD, BART. Additional facts respecting e the fossil remains of an animal, on the subject of which two papers have been printed in the Philosophical Transactions showing that the bones of the sternum resemble those of the ornithorhynchus paradoxus, 24 ----he Croonian Lecture. On the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation, 172 Some additions to the Croonian Lecture, on the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation, 185 -----A description of the teeth of the Delphinus Gangeticus, 417 K KATER, CAPT. HENRY. An account of experiments for determining the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in the latitude of London, 33 -On the length of the French M6tre estimated in parts of the English standard, 103 Knife edges of the apparatus and methods employed for the measurement of the distance between thein (in Capt. Kater's experiments,) and for the comparison of the British standard measures of the highest authority, 49 KNIGHT, THOMAs ANDREW, EsQ. On the office of the heart wood of trees, 137 L LAMBTO1'I, COL. WILLIAM, An abstract of the results deduced from the measurement of an arc on the meridian, extending from latitude 80 9 38", 4, to latitude 180 3' isle 6, N. being an amplitude of 9g 53f 45a> 2. 486 LA PLACE, M. A concise demonstration of a curious and important theorem discovered by him, 93 Lecture, Croonian, on the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation, 172 Some additions to it, 185 Lizards, of their urinary organs and urine, 305 M Materials, an account of experiments made on the strength of them % 118 description of an apparatus used in measuring the strength of them, 120 MDCCCV1II. 3 Z INDEX. page Mktre a bouts, comparison of the M~tre so called, pag MNtre a traits, comparison of the Mktre so called, 105 .lltre, French, on the length of it estimated in parts of the English standard, . 103 Milky way, at the profundity beyond which the gaging powers of our instruments cannot reach, is not an ambiguous object, 462 Jlountains, observations on the heights of some in the north of England, 395 height of, Dr. Maskelyne's rules for determining it cited, 402 Dr. Hutton's rules for determining it cited, 403 Mulberry, black, on the colouring matter of this fruit, 114 P Paper, sugar-loaJ; some remarks on its colour and properties, 113 Parallax, on that of certain fixed stars, -275 on that of the fixed stars in right ascension, 481 on that of a Aquile, 477 Pendulum vibrating, seconds in the latitude of London, an account of experiments for determining the length of it, 33 of the method of deducing the length o fit, length of it, 87 _-description of one employed in the foregoing experiments, 37 measurement of it, 5 __...expansion of it, 60 ___._ _Method of determining the number of vibrations made by it in 24 hours, 43 Phosphorus, new experiments on some of the combinations of it, 316 Polarisation and double refraction, on their laws in regularly crystallized bodies, 199 Polarising forces, on the resolution and combination of them, and the reduction of all crystals to crystals with tvro or more axes, 245 POND, JoQN, EsQ. On the different methods of constructing a catalogue of fixed stars, 405 On the parallax of M Aquile, 477 IN D E Xspage POND, JOHnN, ESQ, On the parallax of the fixed stars in right ascension, 481 Poppy, corn, experimeents on its colouring matter, 115 Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from November 1817, to June 1818, 519 PROCHASKA, his account of experiments on the brain, when subjected to minute microscopical observations, noticed, 177 PROUT, \VILLIAM, M. D. A description of an acid prin. ciple prepared from the lithic or uric acid, 420 Purpuric acid, a name given to an acid principle prepared from the lithic or uric acid, 421 Purpurates, a name given to the compounds of the purpuric acid with different bases, 423 RENNEIE GEORG E, EsQ. An account of experi ments made on the strength of materials, 118 Rings or isochronzatic curves, on the form of them, and on the nature of the tints in crystals with more than one axis, 226 S Sapgreen, some facts respecting the colour of this pigment, 116 SEPPINGS, ROBERT, Esq, On the great strength given to ships of war by the application of diagonal braces, 1 Serpents, of their urinary organs and urine, 303 on the structure of their poisonous fangs, 471 Skiddaw, a geometrical admeasurement of that mountain, -395 SMITH, TiOTUAS. EsoQ. On the structure of the poisonous fangs of serpents, 471 SMITHSON, JAMES, EsQ. A few facts relative to the colouring matter of some vegetables, 110 pars, clusters of of the assumed semblance of them, when seen through telescopes that have not light and power sufficient to show their nature and construction, 463 on their distance, 430 a series of observations upon them, from which the order of their profundity in space is determined, 431 Starsfixed, on the parallax of some of them, 275 on the different methods of constructing a catalogue of them, ; e ? 405 INDEX. page Stars, fired, on the parallax of those in right ascension, 481 T Thermometric admeasurement, remarks on it, and on the doctrine of capacity, 370 Tintsfor all crystals with one or more axes, on the general law of them, 234 Turnsol, its colouring matter, _ 110 Turtle and tortoise, of their urinary organs and urine, 306 V Vapours, on their elastic force, with new formula to determine it at 'any temperature; and a review of those given by Dalton and Biot, 338 on their latent heat, 386 Vegetables, a few facts relative to the colouring matter of some of them, 110 Violet, of its colouring matter, 112 U URE, ANDREW, M. D. New experimental researches on some of the leading doctrines of caloric; particularly on the relation between the elasticity, temperature, and latent heat of different vapours; and on thermometric admneasurement and capacity, 338 Urinary organs and secretions, on those belonging to some of the class of the amphibia, 303 Uterine system in women, on a mal-conformation of it; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308 W Women, on a mal-conformation of -the uterine system in them; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308 Y YOUNG, THOMAS, M. D. Appendix to Capt. Kater's paper entitled " an account of experiments for( determining the length of the pendulum-vibrating seconds in the latitude of London." 95 From Tbe Press of W. BULMER,5 Co. Cleveland-row, St. Yames's, London. 