An additional Remark to one of Mr. William Watson, F. R. S. in his Account of the Abbe Nollet's Letter concerning Electricity. By Thomas Birch, D. D. Secr. R. S. MR. Watson, in a note upon his account of the ninth letter of the abbe Nollet concerning electricity, read before this (76) See Letter to M. Folkes, Esq; P. R. S. p. 86. Society Read Jan. 10, 1754. [485] Society on the 17th of May 1753. takes notice, that as the electrical attraction has been observed so early, as to be mentioned by Theophrastus; so its luminous appearance, tho' only considered as a meteor, is mentioned by Plutarch in his life of Lysander, Pliny, and other antient as well as some modern authors. Seneca particularly affirms, that Gylyppo Syracusas petenti visa est stella super ipsam lancem constitisse: And that in Romanorum castris visa sunt ardere pila, ignibus scilicet in illa delapsis. Caesar, in his history of the African war, says, in a violent stormy night, Legionis pilorum cacumina sua sponte arserunt: And Livy mentions two similar facts. To these I shall now add one from Mr. Fynes Moryson, a writer of unquestionable authority, and eminent for his learning, curiosity, and ten years travels through most countries of Europe, and part of Asia. This gentleman, who was secretary to Charles Blount, lord Montjoy, lord deputy, and afterwards lord lieutenant, of Ireland, and earl of Devonshire, of whose great services, in the reduction of that kingdom, he has inserted a very particular history in his Itinerary, observes, in that work, Part II. Book ii. p. 176. edit. Lon. 1617. fol. that at the siege of Kingsale by the lord deputy Montjoy, where Mr. Moryson attended him in the camp, on the 23d of December 1601. all the night was clear, with lightning (as in the former nights were great lightnings with thunder), to the astonishment of many, in respect of the season of the year. `` And I have heard, adds he, by many horsemen of `` good credit, and, namely, by captain Pikeman, `` cornet to the lord deputy's horse, a gentleman of `` good estimation in the army, that this night our `` horsemen [486] `` horsemen set to watch, to their seeming, did see `` lamps burn at the points of their staves, or spears, `` in the midst of these lightning flashes.'' LXI. 