C 38$ 3 XXI. Observations and Experiments onw a Wax-like Substance, resembling the Pe-la of the Chinese, collectedf at Madras by Dr. Anderson, and called by him White Lac. By George Pearson,, M. D. F. R. S. Read May 29, zy94. tX Some Observations relative to the natural History of the Insect whicb secretes a Sort of AVaxn called white Lac. rrs 1 HE matter which is the subject of the folloving observations alld experiments, was first noticed by Dr. ANDERSON of Madras, about the year 1786, in a letter to the governor and council of that place, when he says, nests of insects resembling small cowry sllells were brought to him from the woods by the natives, who eat them witll avidity. These supposed nests he shortly afterwards discovered to be the coverings of the females of an undescribed species of COCCU$5 and having noticed, ill the Abbd GROSIER'S Account of China, that tlle Chinese collect a kind of wax, much esteemed by themS under the name of Pe-la, from a coccus deposited for the purpose of . breeding on certain shrubs, and managed exactly in the same manller as the Mexicans manage the cochineal insect, he followed the same process with his rlew insects, and shortly fourld means to propagate tllem with great facility on several of the trees and shrubs growing in his neighbourhoodO Dr. PEARSON)S Observations and Experiments384On examining the substance, he observed in it a very considerable resemblance to bees wax; and noticed7 moreover, that the animal which secretes it provides itself, by some means or other, witll a small quantity of honey, resembling that produced by our bees; and lle complains in one of his letters, that the children whom Ile elnployed to gatlaer it were tempted by its ssveetness to eat so much of svhat they collected, as to diminish materially the produce of his crop It is also believed tilat the white lac possesses medicillal qualities. A small quantity of this matter was sent to the President in t789, but as there was not enough for tlae various experiments which suggested themselves to chemists wllo were collsulted on the occasion, he wrote to Dr. ANDERSON for an additional quantity, who in 1792 furnished him with some pounds of it, both in its natural state, and melted into cakes, as also of tlle insects adhering to the branches on which they had been cultivated. The curious analogy betureen the manner in hich this insect produces its wax, and the mode in svhich it is producect by our bees, according to the late Mr. HUNTER'S observation, and the singularity of the animal's producing honey as vviell as wax, were sufficient reasons, in point of abstract curiosity, to make an analysis Yery desirable; and moreover the probabil jty of its becoming an object of commerce seemed apparent: for it certainly can be provided at Madras at a mlvlcla less prce than is given for wax, even irl the cheapest markets. I thc-refore, at the request of the President, very willingly uladertook the task of examining its chemical qualities whicll are tl-le subject of the folloxing paper. It must l)e remembered, that all the authors wllo describe ors a Wa*-lzEe Substance from Madras-. :38S the true cochineal insect tell us, that the females when nearly perfect are covered thickly with a white down, or meal, which protects them from the sun and rain, and the attacks of certain insects who are their enemies. It is probable that tlais substance is of the sam-e nature as the p6-la, and that the secretion of wax in more or less quantity is common to the genus of coccus. It is observable, moreover, that the insect which produces lac, a substance resemblin$ wax, provides itself also with a sweet fluid resemJ3ling honey. Hence a striking analogy between these three animals is observable; and it is far frorll improbable that fufure naturalists may discover them to be species of the same genus; and find the means of making the beautiful red colour prodllced by the lac irlsect as useful in dying as that of the true cochineal, II. Sensible, and some other Propertzes of white Lac. A piece of white lac, which weiglls from about three to fif-teen grains, is plobably produced by each irlsect. These pieces are of a grey colour, opaque, rough, and roundish; of about the size of a pea, but svith a flat side, by which they adheroe to the ba-rk. In this flat side there is a fissure which contaills a little blac.l> r;z7*tte tlnn exuvi of the insect. Whice iav, in its dley stae, has a saltish and bitterish taste, and in the nsour-ll is soft and tough. It appears however from Mr. ANDERSON'S lette-e, that the taste of this substance recently prod->ictet<-) is sc (}.sJlibious9)2 SO that it is difflcult to pre* vent the cl-t! re ) rJAiu other persons employed to gather it from eatinC it. on p*ec ^ *<g a piece of this substance between the fingers a xDccxclv. 3 D 380 lvr PEARSoNws Observations and Experisnents watery liquid oozes out, wlnicll has a slight salt taste X and ure are tolel that the recently gathered lac is replete with juice. Althollgh the roulldish pieces of tiliS substance yicld to pressure betwteell the fingersy tlley may be brokell, and thetz appear to be perfectly white ntithin alld of an uniform stnooti texture. NVIlite lac has no sll}eil unless it be pressed or rub bed till it is soft, and tl-en it enlits a peculiar odour. Tlle lac which 11af1 looez strained through muslin svas of a brosvn coleur througllout its B^hvle substance; uras brittle hard anel ilad a bitterisla taste, without alay saltiless, for its watertr liquid had been separated by lneti5-g. The pieces of lac gat;llered from the tree are as light, or -lighter than bees swas; but after beizg lmelted and purified by straining, it sinlSs in watern and ti-err^<ore is specifically heavier than lees wax generally is. White laC naeits ill water of the temperature of 14$Q of FAHRENMEIT)S tlaermometer. In boiling water it readsly melted, and the black exuszz were thus separated from the lac. Two thousand grains of svhite lac were exposed in such a degree of caloricX as was just sufficient to melt tllem ; as they grew soft and fluide a pretty large quantity of reddish wafery fluid, namely sSo grains, which emitted the smell of nesvly baked bread, oozed outb Thos liquid was poured oX for examination, alld the lac was strainecl thrclgh fizle clotll repeatedlys till it left no exusz or other es-traneous lnatter on the filter. The quantity of purified lac thus obtairled was 1220 grainsw * The names of the new system of chemistry are employed in this paper, for vrhich it is presumed a particular explanation is alIlnecessAry, as ;ts nomenclature is now vesy generally used. on a PMax-like Substance from Ma<'ras; 387Y It was yellow like bees wax X hard alld bri/ tle as rnsin. It had no bitterish or scarcely anye otller tastef It tnel4ted in alcohol, and also ira water, c3f the temperature of between +S° and 146°e Purified white lac adheles very firmly to wood, tin, paper> &c. so that it is an excellent cement on tnally occasions. lII. Experiments to disover some of tbe nittes and Combi-osations of white Lac. . Yellow purified lac above mentioned was spread thitl upon a plate cf glassn and exposed to the rays of the sun during the rllole of the tnoiltll of July, 179g, bllt it was 1lot by this means rendered (It all less yellosv. e. A bit of svhite lac, on boiling in vater with powdered charcoal, was absorbed, and disappeared. g. Purified lac was digested in various proportions of ley of ptlre pot-ash, in different temperatures, but an urliform or soap-likemass could not be formed. 1-he mixture emitted tlle smell of palm t3il. The lac turned to a brown colotlr, and had the appearance of a coaCulated mass, ill the liquid as well as dry state. -The liquid filtered from these solutions had a sweetish and bitterish taste. Upon the addition of vinegarf it became very turbicl and rose-coloured; and by standing it let fall a copious sediment, wIlich beillg dried svas foulld to bewhite lac only rendered rnore brittle. +. 24,+nmoniac or caustic volatile alkali seemed to combine with the svhite lac. rthe compotlnd was a tolerably uniform brown soapy substance. It tasted sweet, alad had still a weak slnell of cllumoniac. It rendered water lnilky, alld this solu tion became curdy on adding to it acetous acidO 3D 2 388 Dr. PEARSON'S Observations and ExperintentsS Candles, of different thicknesses, w ere made of puri fied vhite lac above mentioned, witll cotton wicks of diffierent thick1lesses; and candles vere also made of white lac svlicll 11ae1 been dissolved in su]plauric aethera and in voiatile oil of turpelltine. Tl-ley all burned more rapidly, but I tllink emitted a less quantity of light, than sax candles of the same size. The candles made of svhite lac also ssluoked and produced a rosinolls stnell. Wllite lac burned in oxygen gaz vithout afficrdlng ay snloke, and with a beautifully bright flame * A small piece of purified svllite lac, i:z a platina s;poon, r^s exposed to tlle apex of tlae violet blue colsured flatlle of a candle, by means of tlne blow-pipe ; a smal qualltit:>r or ba. k suatter retnained in the spoon, xvllich could not be carr;ed oF by a long continued application of the flatne ; btlt after keepillg tlle spoon red-hot itl the fire for ten millutes, notlling but a very snzall qualltity of grey ash uas le^t. 6* From purified svhite lac nothing could be extracted by water , nor from the lac in its itnpure state, except a bittelisl snucilage. # 7. White lac turned to a black coloured substance by boi:ling it in concerltrated sulphuric acid. The mixture NZas then diluted with water, and by means of the filter a carbonaceousmatter svas separated, which on being made recl hot buAnt in tlle air svithout flaming. The filtered liquid, upc)n evapora.ion todryness, afforded no alkaline or other residue. 8. Glass covered with a thin coat of white lac wabs kept immersed in oxygenated muriatic acid gaz, and also ill Water saturated with tllis gaz, for several months, witllout producing any apparent change on the colour of the lac, or in its other properties. on a tax-Zike Substanefrom Madras.389g. On about ooo grains of white lac were poured asa5O grains of cooucentrated nitrous acid. In a fe;Vv milaul:es time the acd became of a deep orange colour, and, on rnaking it hot nkltrous gaz was discharged, with an ebullition of the liquid. A fresll discharge of nitrous gaz took place on adding more lli trous acid. On applying calolic, to make the acid boil and to melt the lac, this stlbstance was totally dissolved v but on standing to cool, it seetned to be wllolly separated from the acid, and vas rendered white; On diluting with vvater the acid from which the lac had separatecl itself; a very slight curdy precipitation took place; and the same appearance took place on adding ley of pot-ash. On evaporatilag this acid to dryness, a very small residue of lac was obtgiruedX I dissolved a little of this sllbstance by boiling it in coracentrated nitrous acid, and poured the solution, while hot? illtO water ; UpOll which a very copious precipitation instantly took placen of the lac renderecl quite svhite. so. One hundred grairls of the substance under exarnination were totally dissolved, alld very readilyf in 5oo grains of volat;e oil of turpexltine. While this solution was llot it was clear, hut on cooling it grew opaque and white. 0t1 evaporation the whole of the lac was recovered. 1X. Fifty grains of white lac readily dissolved in Soo grains measure of sulphtaric ther, in the temperature. of 80°. tthis mlutioll was not unctuous, or resinousv the lower part of it was lilie an emulsion, and the tIpper part was transparent and lim?id, but both parts contained the sub,stance dissolved. Upon evaporation the lac was recc)vered in the fornl of a light white powder, which on melting became a brittle yellow solid, as heavy as before solutionf :39O Dr PEARSONtS Observations and werzznents12. One hundred grains of hite lac being digested in zooo grains nzeasure of acohol, the specific gravity of which s.tas as 835 to Iovo, about half of the substance soon dissolved, and the solution wher} colcI was opaque, hite, and thickv as saturated solution of soap in hoX spirit of wine appears on cooling. By repeated affusions of aIcohol oll the residue of these loo grains, all btlt about ty gra.ins was dissolved ; and tlliS residue did laot appear to be diffierent from lac whicll had not been digested in this menstruum.^ This. solution affiorded, on evaporation, a light white opaque powder, v11icll on being tnelted was a brittle, yellow, heavy solid, as the substallce was before solution. Saturated solution of white lac itl alcohol spread tIpon paper, cloth, WOOd? &G. on evaporation left a thin coat of resinous lnatter, which was llot laowever brigIat and smooth; and therefore thi:s solu-tion did not afford a good varnishF r. Ezperzments to decompound NDite Lac by Fire. I shall only relate particularly one of these exl}eriments, because among several which I made th-ere was no material diSerence in the result. Eight hundred grains4of purified white lac were put into a glass retort, to which was affixed an adopter svitll a large btlll to receive condensed vapotlrs) ahd tlae hydro-pneutnatic apparatus to collect elastic fltoids, or gazes. There clistilled over go4 grains of yellow strongly empyreumatic oil of tlle consistence of butter, 400 graills of tllin oil which had the smell of tar, near 20 grains of watery liquid cotltaining a little acid, perhaps the pyrotartareous or the sebacic acid; besides 3oz on a Kclx-Zike Substance from Madras.cllbic inclles of gaz. Ill the retort there retnailled 37 grains of:391 carbonaceous lnatter, wvhich was a pretty lzard cinder, the Ul1der surface of which in contact with the glass had seelaillgly unclergone a partial fusio2l, and tlle glass itself to wlaich it ad hered appeared to have been a little corroded. The above distilled gaz contailleel no -oxygen to tEle tesl; of zitrous gaz; but 32 cubic inclles of it were absorbed by milk of lime, and near 86 cubic ilaches of it were absorbed by yellow exyd of 8 lead, or massicot, placed in the focus of a lens; ddring which absorption lead was reduced, and water com posed. lnlae remainder of tlle gaz extinguislled flame and ras concluded to be nitrogen or azotic gaz. The baz which was obtained by distillation was therefore a mixture of carbonic acid, hydrogen, and nitrogen gaz. This mixture burnt lile what has been called lleavy inflammable alr. rrhe above gy grains of carbonaceous matter afforded two grains of muriate of soda9 one grain of carbonate of soda, four grains of phosphate of soda. The lixiviated carbonaceous matter being mixed with goo grains of red oxyd of'lead, and exposed to a due degree of fire, yielcied about 60 cubic inches of carbonic acid gaz, and a little regulus of lead; but there was a residue of carbonaceous matter vvhich could not be -burnt away in the fiercest fire in open vessels. This residue sras probably carbon, phosphoric acid and soda, intiluately mixed by fusion. From this analysisn it appears that loo parts of wllite lat pu rified yield S92 Dr. PEARSON'S Obser7)atzons and ExperimentsButyraceous oil Thin oil Water containing acid Carbonaceous matter7 containing ] acid, muriatic acid, and soda Carbonic acid, by estimation Hydrogen, by estimation Nitrogen or asote by estimation251 so _ gI . lorlcphospE4T 4 I _ 1_ _ 1098Deficiency by waste and error, by estimationzoo parts. Wllen this experiment was made with unpur.ified white lac, the proportion of water and carbonaceous matter was much greater than in the preceding experiment. On acccunt also of the water, it was extremely difficult to pxevent tlle substance boiling over and bursting the vessels. Charcoal of wood being mixed with white lac, the oil seetned to distil over more readily, with less waier, and was paler coloured oil than in the preceding experiment. White lac was also distilled from pot-ash, s-itXiout any ma terial diffierence in the result, excepting that the oiis which distilled over were thicker. on a Waxvlike Sabstancefrom Madras.393 v. Experiments upon the Liquid cont£lined in white Lac ( a) On pressing, between the fingers, the pieces of white lac, in the state in wllich they are taken from the tree or shrub (although they are apparently quite dry and brittle and have been kept several years), a watery liquid oozes out v by svhich paper stalned with turnsole is instantly turned to a red colour. (b3 The S° grains of reddish svatery liquid above mentioned to have been separated from 2000 grains of white lac were filtrated through paper in order to separate rnucilage. (aa) rrkis filtrated liquid has a slightly saltish taste, with bitterness, but is not at all sour. (bb) When made hot, it smells precisely like llewly baked hot bread. (cc) On standirlg it grows somewhat turbid, and deposits a small quantity of sediment. (dd) Its specific gravity in the temperature of 60* was to distillecl srater as o02$ to loQo. (ee) A little of this liquicl having been evaporated till it gresv xTery turbid, oll standirlg afforded small needle-like crys tals in lnucilagil1ous matter. (c) About 250 grains of the liquid (b) urere poured into a retort which held one ounce measure, to whicll svas joined a receiver containing two shreds of paper, one stained witla turrlJ sole, and the other had been dipped in solllt on of sa1l31late of iron. As the liquor grew vvarln, mucilage-like cXouds appearedf but when it gre^r llot tlley disappeared; anel about tlae telnperature of 200° it dlstilled over very fast. Oll dist:illation to early dryness, a sluall quantity of extractive onataer remained> MDCCXCIV. 3 Fj 394 Dr. PEARSON'S Observations afzd E.xperiments The distilled liquid while llot smelt like newly baked bread, and was perfectly transparent and yelIowish. The paper stained with turnsole was not reddened; nor was tllat which had been immersed in solution of sulphate of iron turned to a blue colour, vlpon moistening it with ley of potash. (d) The flaIne of a candle being applied hy means of a blow-pipe to the extractive rnatter (c) the wltole of it was burnt-aray except svhat prodllced a blacl mark upon the; spoon; in which no trace of alkali was detected by peaper stained with turmeric. (e) About loo grains of the yellowish transparent liqltid (c) being evaporated till it grew turbid, after being set by for a night, afforded acicular crystals, svhich urlder a lens appeared in a gltoup, not unlike the umbel of parsley. The whole of these crystals coulcl notg probablyn have weiglled a quarter of a grain. They tasted only bitterish. (f) One hutldred grains of the yellow ish transparent liquid (c) being evaporated, ina very low temperature, to drynessS a blackish matter was left behindf wllich did llot entirely dis appear oll heating the spoc)n containing it very hot in tlle naked fire; but on heating oxalic acid to a much less degree it evaporated, arad left not a trace behind. (g) Carbozzate of iime (chalk) readily dissolved? svith effer vescence, in the liquid (c). The solution tasted bitterish, clid not turn paper stained with turnsole to a red cc]our, and a copious precipitation elzsued on adding to it carboilate of pot ash (mild vegetable allialt). A little of this soltltion of limej and also of alkali being evaporated to dryness, al-Xclt:he residue being made red-hot nothing remainecl but carbonate of lim alsd carbol1ate of pot-ashO o;n a Wax-like SNstance from Madiras.sos(h) Tlle above distilled Iiquid (c) did not render nitrate of Iime turbid ; but (i) It produced turbidness in nitrate alld rnuriate of baryt. (k) To $oo grains of the reddish coloured liquid obtaixled by lneltirlg white lac, I added ley of carbonate of soda, till the eServescence ceased, and the mixture neither reddened paper stained with turnsole, nor turned paper stained with turmeric to a bro^rn colour. The quantis-y of dry carbonate of soda used in the ley svas three grains A quantity of mucilaginous matter with a little carbonate of lime, vvJas precipitated (luring this combination. The saturated solution beillg filtrated and evaporated to a due degree, it affordeds on standing, deliquescent crystals. (I) A little of tile crystallized salt (k) by expostlre to fire left onlJr a residue of carbonate of soda. (m) The reddish liquid obtained by melting the white lat being filtrated, the following precipitants were added, namelys <. Lime-water, which produced a light purple, turbid appearance, and on standing, there were just perceivable clouds. 2. Sulphgret of lime (calcareous liver of sulphur) occasioned a white precipitation; but I could not perceive the smell of sulphurized hydrogen gaz, (hepatic air). . Alcohol of gall nut (tincture of gall nut) induced a grey precipitation. 4. Sulphate of iron (green vitriol) produced a purplish coIour? but lao precipitation ; nor did arly precipitation take place on adding to this mixture first a little vinegar, and then a little pot-asll. . Hcetite of lead (sugar of lead) occasioned a reddish precipitation, w-hich re-dissolved on adding a little nitrolls acid. 3 E 2 396Dr. PEARSON'S Observations and E0periments6. NStrate of mercary (sollltion of mercury in nitrous acid) producecl a *vllitish turbid liquid. *7. Owalis acid produced immediately a precipitation of white acicular crystals. 8. Tarlrite of pot-asb (soluble tartar) lveing addedS a preci pitation took place wllich rnuch resenlb'ed tilat whicll takes place on adding tartareous acid to tartrite of pot-ash; but the plzecipitated matter by tlle liquid from the white lac did not re-dissolve on adding pot-asll. With respect to the nature of the liquid contained in white lac^ it perhaps lJelongs to the genus of acids, because it changes turnsole to a red coloured substance, and lleutralizes fixed alkali and lirne (g) (k). This acid liquid is most probably secreted at the same time ^rith the white lac; and therefore tlle white lac coccus, like the ant, anxl some other insects, llas organs for secreting an acid. As this acid is destructible by fire (f) (g) (1) and as it affords carbon (X), it mtlst l)e referlecl to tile anitnal or vege table acids. From the precipitation of tartrite of pot-clsh (m, 8) reseln bling tartar, this acifl luight be supposed to be the tart-areous; but as this precipitate is not again dissolved OIl adding potash, as it llas no sour taste (c), as it evflporates in 200° of caloric (b), as the cotnbinatioll with lime is readily sotuble in water, and decomposed by pot-asll (g) (m, t), a-ltl as the cOmbningtiOAl \V tt 1 seda is a deli que .cell t salt ( k ) S tlais acid callnot be consiclereal to be t-he ttrtareous. Nor does this liquid appear, from the abcve experiments, to be any one of the other knowIa vegetable or allirnal acids. rthe other proper on a tYax-like Substance Jrom Madras.397ties, shown by the experiments, except the precipitatiorl of tartrite of pot-ash, and the peculiar smell above melationed, are either those common to every species of acid, or are possessed by several of them. For although this acid possesses several propert;ies common to all acids, and some properties which belong to a few species only, there is not arly olle of the already known acids that has the slnell, wlaen heated, above mentioned that plecipitates tartrite of pot-ash, but does not serve to compose acidulous tartrite of pot-ash S that, besides hasing these properties, is vapour in the t:emperature of 2O0° vithout decomposibion, has not a sour but a bitterish taste, and forlms a soluble compound w-ith lime, svllich is decomposable by pot-ash. The precipitation by oxalic acid, it is probable, was occasiorzed by a small quantity of lime which the undisl;illed liquid of white lac contaills Tlae otller phaenomena in the experiments I do not re-fer to, because they are produced by acids in general. Whether the above liquicl from white lac be a new acid, or one of the acids already krzown, but disguised by mixture or 1lnion svith o4sher bodies, I leave to the decision of future experiments, and to the judgment of learned chetnists. v. Renlarks and Conclusions ffCom tbe preceding Observations and Experimezlts. 1. White lac being unctuous lvhel] in a fluid state, having little or no smell atad taste, unless heatedS being insoluble in water l)eing inflamlnable in oxygen gazS and ctecompoulided bJr ;Ilre alonen in close vessels, before evaporationg it seetns to398Dr. PEArsoN's Observations and Experinzentsbelong to the genus of fat, or fixed oils :-but it diffiers from them, and resembles the volatile oils and resins, in being brittle and semitransparent, in being soluble in alcohol; irz composing an imperfect seap with fixed alkalies s in dissolv ing readily in su]phuric aether. 2. As bees was allel white lac seemed to be alike in many properties, I extended the comparison by some experiments on jbees wax. Bees wax when first secreted is, I beRieve, always whitew and it is often v-hite when made into the conlb. It retnains white after being luelted. White lac becomes yellow, on purification by melting and straining. Bees wax has a peculiar slnell when cold. White lac has a smell only when luade laot, and it is a different one from that of bees wax. Bees wax is less brittle and hard tllan white lac. The former is, generallya specifically lighter than the latter, for bees wax often floated upon cold water, but purified lac fell to the bottom. Bees wax melts at about 942t, and therefore in a few degrees less caloric thall white lac. Bees wax does not adIlere so firmly to different bodies as white lac. Yellow bees wax can be rendered white by exposure to the solar light, or by oxygenated tnuriatic acid, but this Iac could not be bleached. Bees wax formed a soap-like mass by union with pot-ash which was soluble like common soap in water, but this lac afforded an imperEect soap. on a Wa*-like Substancefrom Madras.399It is well known that bees wax burns without afforditlg almost any smoke or smell, arld produces a stea(ly light. I did not iind that white lac, united witll oil of olive, formed a wax little inferior to bees wax, which is said to be the case with the p6-la of tlle Chinese. By this union I tnade white lac whiter arld as soft as bees wax; but it still afforded smokeX a resinous slnell, and an unsteady light, as before. Water extracted nothing from pure bees wax. Nttrous acid, in the cold, only rendered it white; but, on boiling, the lac wholly dissolved, and like the white lac, on cooling, it separated, and was rendered white. Oil of turpentine, and A;ulphuric asther formed compounds with bees wax similar to those with white lac. The solution of bees wax in slllphuric aether, on evaporation left a white powdery substance, svhich on melting was found to be common yellow >tax. Alcohal, tlle specific gravity of which to water was as 8SS to lOCO, dissolved bees wax with tnuch more difficuXty, and in much smaller proportion, than 7vbite lac. By digestioll ill this menstruum, of the ternperature of zgo° to 140°, it appeared that bees wax was totally soluble, but the same wax by repeated digestions became more and more difficultly soltlble, and yet it did not appear that the last portioll of wax was diffierent in its other properties from wax which 11ad not been digested. C)X1 evaporation of this solution to dryness, a white substance in a povs?dery form remained, which being melted svas yellow wax. Bees svax, on decompositiotl lJy fire, in close vessels, with the hyclropneumatic apparatus affixed, yieldecl resembling or nearly $imilar substatlces to trhose obtained o11 the analysis of oo Dr. PEARSONJS Observations and Experiments white lac by fire; for1800 grains of bees vax garre 1200 grains of white butyraceous oil, with a little thin brovvIl oil, and a verysmall quantity of water and acid; and a very large quantity of hydrogen and carbonic acid gaz with wllich was probably l:nixed nitrogen gaz; bllt an accidellt prevented lne determining the presence of this last gaz. In the retort there remaitled ollly abollt ten grains of carbonaceous matter. The smell of tlle empyrellmatic oils was very diffierent from those of white lac. 3. White lac appears to hanre tlle sanne kinds of affinity as bees svax; but many of their combinations are so very difFerent in the TWQ cases, as to tdetermine wlaite lac alld bees wax to be diSerent specles of substallces, although they agree with one another in more properties than they do with any other known bodies. As to the p6-la of the Chinese, we CallIlOt judge of it unless a more particular accoullt had been given of its qualities. 4. White lac and bees wrax appear tc) be homogeneous substances, and tO consist of the same kind of constituent parts, but the proportion of these parts ls very different ill tlle two substarlces; and hence the differerlce in tlne properties of bees wax and white lac. I consider tlle phosphate of lime, tlle soda, and mariate of soda, as extraneous to the composition of lac. The diffierelat composition of the two substallces may enable us to explain in a probable mantler the differellt action of other bodies upon thena. For inst?tuce, as it appears vllat a mucla greater proportioll of carbon elaters into tlle COlNpOSitiOIl of white lac than bees wax, the quantity of oxygen gaz in atmospheric air, applied under the usual circtnstances of combustion, is not suflicient to combine with the on a Wa*-like Substancefrom Madras.40twhole of the carbon arz-other com(.le lts of a gisren part of white lac, wllereFore a portiol-l vf cLsrboll remaitls uncombilled, in the forln of soot, or a sub;mafe; but u7hen ox)Jgell gaz is applied, the nvhole of t}we carboll is combilled with it, alld of cotlrse no srnoke appears. The smaller proportion of carboll in bees wax than white lac, affiords a probable reason why tnere is less smoke during the coynbustion of bees svax tllan xvhite lac. It appeclrs reasonable to conclude, that svhite lac might be made to serve for illumination and cotnbllstioll as well as bees wax, either by diminislling the proportion of carbon, or by increasillg tlle proportion of tlae c)ther components, but my knoN71edge of chetnistry does not etaable 1lle to effiect either of tllese cllanges.3 FMDCCXC IY. 