(351) ale des Sciences, Docteur en Medicine de la Faculte de Paris, & Professeur en Botanique au Jardin Royal des Plantes. A Paris de l'imprimerie royale. 1698. 8vo. XIV. An Account of Books newly printed beyond Sea. XV. An Account of Books now Printing beyond Sea. 1. A Relation of the Symptoms that attended the Death of Mr. Robert Burdett, an English Merchant of Aleppo, who was kill'd by the Bite of a Serpent. Communicated by Mr. Aaron Goodyear, who was then preseut. MR. Robert Burdet, on the Fourth of October, 1678. was bit by a Serpent on the Left Wrist, near the Pulse towards his Hand; it seem'd at first like two Pricks of a Pin, he immediately vomited, and his Wrist and Hand begun to swell presently; he had some few Days before a Looseness, which perhaps this increased; he rode easily alone, after he was bit,(above two Miles off) to Aleppo, from the Borders of the Vineyards by Nerope Plain; assoon as he got to his Chamber, he said, he was bit by a Rat (and would not own it was a Serpent) though a Turk accidentally passing by, said, he saw the Serpent hang at his Wrist, as he pull'd his Hand out of the Refuge, hoping to have taken a Hare that he had Cours'd in there; he said, he felt no pain, but a great desire to sleep; his Arm continued swelling upwards, and grew black; some little Remedies were used till the rest of the Factory return'd, who knew nothing of this, he being then alone, from the rest in the Field; then they begun to Cup and scarifie his Arm; he having still no Pain, but a great drowsi(352) Drowziness; but was kept waking, to use that little time he had left, to prepare himself for Death; which he perform'd exceedingly well; at last the Swelling came up to his Shoulder, and then he complain'd much; and within a Quarter of an Hour died. He was bit about Ten in the Forenoon, and died about Three in the Afternoon; his Body swell'd much after Death, and purg'd. The Snake was like a common Snake, for length; his Colour dark sandy, with black Spots; his two Teeth, or Fangs are like those of a Rattle-Snake, on the Upper Jaw; the Poyson lies in the Gums; and wherever they fetch Blood of any Creature they certainly kill; though in some Parts sooner than in others. The Oyl of Tobacco kills the Serpent, if put in his Mouth, as was experienced. The People of the Country say, that if, as soon as any one is bit by a Serpent, they shall suck immediately the Wound, they may be saved; but they rub first their Gums and Teeth with Oyl, that none of the Poyson may touch any Place; where the Skin is broken, and spit out immediately what they suck, every time washing the Mouth, and taking more Oyl. This Serpent kill'd a Dog, in about Eight Minutes time, biting him at the end of his Ear; and two young Turkeys afterwards in three or four Minutes each, biting them at the end of a Claw; and then we poyson'd him with the Oyl of Tobacco out of a Reed Pipe (that had been much used, and not cleansed for a Week or Two) and he died in about two or Three Minutes, trembling as soon as the Oyl was dropt into his Mouth. There are People that get their Bread by taking and shewing these Serpents: They find them in hot Days near Rocks, or the Mountains, and elsewhere; putting a Stick nigh their Head, take them up carefully by the Neck, as you hold a Rabbit, and putting them into a Leather Bag, carrying them about to shew. II. A. 