77 Viii. Some new experiments and observations on the combustion of gaseous mixtures, with an account of a method of preserving a continued lZght in mixtures of iIflammable gases and air without me. By Sir Humphry Davy, F. R. S. LL. D. V. P. R. L Read January 23, 1817. I N a Paper read before the Royal Society at their last two meetings, I have described the phenomena of the slow combustion of hydrogene and olefiant gas without flame. In the same paper I have shown, that the temperature of flame is infinitely higher than that necessary for the ignition of solid bodies. It appeared to me, therefore, probable, that in certain combinations of gaseous bodies, for instance, those above referred to, when the increase of temperature was not sufficient to render the gaseous matters themselves luminous; yet still it might be adequate to ignite solid matters exposed to them. I had devised several experiments on this subject. I had intended to expose fine wires to oxygene and olefiant gas, and to oxygene and hydrogene during their slow combination under different circumstances, when I was accidentally led to the knowledge of thefact, and, at the same time, to the discovery of a new and curious series of phenomena. I was making experiments on the increase of the limits of the combustibility of gaseous mixtures of coal gas and air by increase of temperature. For this purpose, I introduced a small wire-gauze safe-lamp with some fine wire of platinum 78 Sir 1H. DAVY'S experiments and observations fixed above the flame, into a combustible mixture containing the maximum of coal gas, and when the inflammation had taken place in the wire-gauze cylinder, I threw in more coal gas, expecting that the heat acquired by the mixed gas in passing through the wire-gauze would prevent the excess from extinguishing the flame. The flame continued for two or three seconds after the coal gas was introduced; and when it was extinguished, that part of the wire of platinum. which had been hottest remained ignited, and continued so for many minutes, and when it was removed into a dark room, it was evident that there was no flame in the cylinder. It was immediately obvious that this was the result which I had hoped to attain by other methods, and that the oxygene and coal gas in contact with the hot wire combined without flame, and yet produced heat enough to preserve the wsire ignited, and to keep up their own combustion. I proved the truth of this conclusion by making a similar mixture, heating a fine wire of platinum and introducing it into the mixture. It imnmediatelybecame ignited nearly to whiteness, as if it had been itself in actual combustion, and continued glowing for a long while, and when it was extinguished, the inflamt mability of the mixture was found entirely destroyed. A temperature much below ignition only was necessary for producing this curious phenomenon, and the wire was repeatedly taking out and cooled in the atmosphere till it ceased to be visibly red and yet when admitted again, it instantly became red hot. t'he same. phenomena were produced with mixtures of olefiant gas and air. C&irbonic oxide, prussic gas and hydrogene, and in the last case with a rapid production of water; on the combustion of gaseous mixtures. 79 and the degree of heat I found could be regulated by the thickness of the wire. The wire, when of the same thickness, became more ignited in -hydrogene than in mixtures of olefiant gas, and more in mixtures of olefiant gas than in those of gaseous oxide of carbon. When the wire was very fine, about the -8 of an inch in diameter, its heat increased iin very combustible mixtures, so as to explode them. The same wire in less combustible mixtures only continued bright red, or dull red, according to the nature of t he mixture. In m)ixtures not explosive by flame within certain limits, these curious phenomena took place whether the -air or the inflammable gas was in excess. The same circumstance occurred with certain inflammable vapours. I lhave tried those of ether, alcohol, oil of turpentine and naphtha. There cannot be a better mode of illustrating the fact, than bv an experiment on the vapour of ether or of alcohol, which any person may make in a minute. Let a drop of ether be thrown into a cold glass, or a drop of alcohol into a warm one. Let a few coils of wire of platinum of the or -Iof an inch be heated at a hot poker or a candle, and let it be brought into the glass ; it will in some part of the glass become glowing, almost white hot, and will continue so as long as a sufficient quantity of vapour and of air remain in the glass. When t.-he experiment on the slow combustion of ether is made in the dark, a pale phosphorescent light is perceived above the wire, which of course is most distinct when the wire ceases to be ignited. This appearance is connected w ith the formation of a peculiar acrid volatile substance possessed of acid properties. 8o Sir H. DAVY'S experiments and observations The chemical changes in general produced by slow combustion appear worthy of investigation. A wire of platinum introduced under the usual circumstances into a mixture of prussic gas, (cyanogen) and oxygene in excess became ignited to whiteness, and the yellow vapours of nitrous acid were observed in the mixture. And in a mixture of olefiant gas non-explosive from the excess of inflammable gas, much carbonic oxide was formed. I have tried to produce these phenomena with various metals; but I have succeded only with platinum and palladium; with copper, silver, iron, gold, and zinc, the effect is not produced. Platinum and palladium have low conducting powers, and small capacities for heat compared with other metals, and these seem to be the principal causes of their pro-, ducing, continuing, and rendering sensible these slow combustions. I have tried some earthy substances which are bad conductors of heat; but their capacities and power of radiating heat appear to interfere. A thin film of carbonaceous matter entirely destroys the igniting power of platinum, and a slight coating of sulphuret deprives palladium of this property, which. must principally depend upon their increasing the power of the metals to radiate heat. Thin larninve of the metals, if their form admits of a free circulation of air, answer as well as fine wires; and a large surface of platinum may be made red hot in the vapour of ether, or in a combustible mixture of coal gas and air. I need n1ot dwell upon the connection of these facts respecting slow combustion, With, the other facts I have described in the history of flame. Many theoretical views will arise from this connection, and hints for new researches' which I on the coubiistw of gaseous mnixlur es. hope to be able to pursue in another communication. I sha I now conclude by a practical application. By hanging some coils of fine wire of platinum, or a fine sheet of platinuin or palladium above the wick of his lamp, in the wire-gauze cylinder, the coal miner, there is every reason to believe, will be supplied with light in mixtures of fire-damp no longer explosive; and should his flame be extinguished by the qtuatity of fire-damp, the glow of the metal will continue to guide him, and by placing the lamp in different parts of the gab. lery, the relative brightness of the wire will show the state of the atmosphere in these parts, Nor can there be any danger with respect to respiration whenever the wire cokatinues ignited, for even this phenomenon ceases when the foul air forms about 5 of the volume of the atmosphere. I introduced into a wire-gauze safe-lamp a small cage made of fine wire of platinum of the gin of an inch in thickness, and fixed it by means of a thick wire of platinum about two inches above the wick which wras lighted.*I placed the whole apparatus in a large receiver, in which by means of a gas holder, the air could be contaminated to any extent with coal gas. As soon as there was a slight admixture of coal gas, the platinum became ignited; the ignition continued to increase till the flame of the wick was extin.guished, and till the whole cylinder became filled with flame; it then diminished. When the quantity of coal gas was increased so as to extinguish the flame; at the moment of the extinction the cage of platinum became white hot, and presented a most brilliant light. By increasing the quantity of the coal gas still farther, the ignition of the platinum becameless vivid. When its light was barely sensible, MDCCCXVII. M 8021, Sir IH. DAVY's experiments and observations small quantities of air were admitted, its heat speedily ins creased; and by regulating the admission of coal gas and air it again became white hot, and soon after lighted the flame in the cylinder, which as usual, by the additionr of more atr mospherical air, re-kindled the flame of the wick. This experiment has been very often repeated, and always with the same results. When the wir for the support of the cage, whether of platinum, silver, or copper, was very thick, it retained sufficient beat to, enable the fine platinum wire to re-kindle in a proper mixture a half a minute after its light had been entirely destroyed by an atmosphere of pure coal gas; and by increasing its thickness the period mnight be made still longer. The phenomenon of the ignition of the platinum takes place feebly in a mixture consisting of two of air and one of coal gas, and brilliantly in a mixture consisting of three of air and one of coal gas: the greater the quantity of heat pro. duced the greater may be the quantity of the coal gas, so that a large tissue of wire will burn in a more inflammable mixture than single filaments, and a wire made white hot willU 'burn in a more inflammable mixture than one made red hot. If a mixture of three parts of air and one of fire damp be introduced into a bottle, and inflamed at its point of contact with the atmosphere, it will not explode, but, will burn like a pure inflammable substance. If a fine wire of platinum coiled at its end be slowly passed through the flame, it will continueIgnited in the body of the mixture, and the same gaseous matter will be found to be inflammable and to support coin.. bustion. There is every reason to hope that the same pheiaomena -on the combustion of gaseous mixtures. 83 will occur with the cage of platinum in the fire-damp, as those which have been described in its operation on mixtures of coal gas. In trying experiments in fire-damp, the greatest care must be taken that no filament or wire of platinum protrudes on the exterior of the lamp, for this would fire externally an explosive mixture. However small the mass of platinum which kindles an explosive mixture in the safe. lamp, the result is the same as when large masses are used; the force of the explosion is directed to, and the flame arrested by, the whole of the perforated tissue. When a large cage of wire of platinum is introduced into a very small safe-lamp, even -explosive mixtures of fire-damp are burnt without flame; and by placing any cage of platinum in the bottom of the lamp round the wick, the wire is prevented from being smoked. I have sent lamps furnished with this apparatus to be tried 'in the coal mines of Newcastle and Whitehaven: and I anxiouslywait for the accounts of their effects in atmospheres in which no other permanent light can be produced by combustion. London, Jan. 22, 1817. Explanation of Plate V. representing dfferent forms of the Miners' Safe-lanp, with the apparatus for giving light in explosive mixtures. a. Represents the single cylinder of wire-gauze; the fold. ings 0. cr. c. must be very well doubled and fastened by wire. If the cylinder be of twilled wire-gauze, the wire should be at least of the thickness of j-! of an ,inch, and of iron or copper, and 30 in the warp and i6 or i8 in the weft, M 2 84 Z'Sir H. DAVY'S experimn-ents and observations If of plain wire-gauze, the wire should not be less than X of an inch in thickness, and from 28 to 3-o both warp and wo o0f. b. represents the second top which fits upon a. c. represents a cylinder of brass in which the wire-ga uze, is fastened by a screw to prevent it from being separated from the lamp by any blow. c. is fitted into a female screw, which receives the male screw Ad of the lamp f. f is the lamp furnished with its safe trimmer and safe feeder for oil. A. is the wire-gauze lamp put together with its strong wire supports, which may be three or four receiving the~ handle., J. is a small cage made of wire of platinum, of _I0 or -8-of aln inch in thickness, fastened to a wire for raising it above the wick, for giving light in inflammable media, containing too little air to be explosive. h. is a similar cage for placing in the bottom of the lamp, to prevent it from being smoked by the wick. C. is a lamp of which the cylinder is copper of -10 of an, inch in thickness, perforated with longitudinal apertures of, not more than the .tof an inch in length, and the --!o in breadth. In proportion as the copper is thicker, the apertures may be increased in size. This form of a lamp may be proper where such an instrument is only to be occasionally used,, but for the general purposes of the collier,, wire-gauze, from, its flexibility, and the ease with which new cylinders are; lntroduced, is much superior.w J In the first lamps which I made on this plan,, more than. twelve months ago, the apertures were circular; but in this case their diameters were required to be very M-al, as the circular aperture is the most favourable to the transmission of rney. -Phibs. T ND CP7.r r . MDCCCIXJ-P' AT P.84. D | 1111 11 11 11 11 11 Il ll l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gll lo 1' Illnll lid~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L111 II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'33t~ 31) 1l 11 *111)1 $13jil}J s <_ |~IllFl3?ltlylltilrllteluiilll 3f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 u);1hldep I 3a 31 0133)73 on the combustion of gaseous mixtures. 8 D. is a lamp fitted with a tin-plate mirror of half the circumference of the cylinder, and reaching as high as the single top, which may be used in strong currents of firedamp to prevent the heat from rising too high. All these forms of the wire-gauze lamp are equally safe. In the twilled-gauze lamp less fire-damp is burnt, and the radiating and cooling surface is greater, and -it is therefore fitted for very explosive mixtures, or for explosive currents. The wire-gauze lamp with a double cylinder, or with a reflector, answers the same purpose. The general principle is, that the cylinder should in no case be suffered to be heated above dull redness; and this is always effected by increasing the cooling surfaces, or by diminishing the circulation of the air. I cannot conclude this notice respecting the safe-lamp, without stating, that in the practical application of my views I have received the most enlightened and liberal assistance from the Rev. JOHN HODGSON and Mr. BUDDLE, who have been the first persons to put my principles to the test of actual experiment in the mines, and to confide their slafety tQ those new resources of chemistry.. 