A Letter from Mr. D. P. Layard, Surgeon, to C. Mortimer, M. D. Secr. R. S. inclosing an Account of a Fracture of the Os Ilium, and its Cure. S I R, INclosed I send you a Case, which, as the Learned Heister observes, rarely Z z z happens, Read Dec. 5. 1745. [538] happens *. If you think it may be worthy the Notice of so distinguished a Body as the Royal Society, I beg the Favour of you, Sir, to present it, as a small Token of my great Respect. I am, with the greatest Regard, S I R, Dean-Street, Soho, Dec. 3. Your most humble, 1745. and affectionate Servant, D. P. Layard. The Case of John Easdon, Coachman to the Right Honourable the Earl of Darnley. ON the 8th of February 1745, John Easdon, Coachman to the Right Honourable the Earl of Darnley, about 22 Years of Age, was jammed between a Waggon and a Coal-Cart, as he was getting up into the Waggon; the Cart-Wheel pressed on the upper Part of the left Os Ilium, and, by a sudden Jolt, squeezed him against the Waggon, so as to raise him from the Waggon-Wheel on which he stood; then the Cart going on, the poor Man fell on the Ground. Being carried to my Lord's Stables, I examined the Part, and found (just below the Contusion made by the * Os innominatnm raro frangitur. Heister Instit. Chirurgic. Tom. 1. pag. 200. 2 [539] the Pressure of the Cart-Wheel) a Fracture running quite across the Costa of the left Os Ilium, about three Fingers Breadth below the Crista of the said Bone; the End of the upper fractur'd Part being forced in towards the Cavity of the Abdomen. The Patient being laid on his Back, on the Edge of the Bed, I applied a Napkin on the false Ribs, which was pulled tight by two Assistants, in order to press the Contents of the Abdomen downwards: Another Assistant pressed the Abdomen on the right Side, while, by pressing the Crista of the fractured Os Ilium gently inwards, I brought both the Edges of the Fracture to a mutual Contact. The Fracture being reduced, the Napkin applied on the false Ribs was tightened, and kept on during the whole Cure with the Scapulary. I applied proper Compresses, and a Pasteboard cut according to the Figure of the Bone, over which I applied the * Spica Bandage. The Patient was kept in Bed for about three Weeks, lying on his Back, the affected Side being supported with a soft Pillow. By this means, and by observing what is generally recommended in all Fractures; the Patient was perfectly cured, and walked very well at the Month's End. * Vide Heister. Institut. Chirurgic. Tom. 2. pag. 1217. Z z z 2 XII. 