(296) V. Some Observations upon Vipers; on occasion of the foregoing Relation. By C. J. Sprengell, M. D. F. R. S. AT Milan I found a Viper-Catcher, who seldom was without 60, or more, Vipers alive, kept together in a back Room open at the Top; he had them from all Parts of Italy, and sold them dead or alive, according to the Uses they were designed for. He having got one day a female Viper big with young, gave me notice to see her manage her Prey; whereupon we catch'd some Mice, and throwing them in one at a Time, amongst all that Number of Vipers, (which were rather above 60) there was none of them, that in the least concern'd himself about the Mouse, till the last mention'd pregnant female Viper and the Mouse interchanged Eyes; whereupon the Mouse startled, but the Viper rais'd her Head, and turn'd her Neck into a perfect Bow, the Mouth open, the Tongue playing, the Eyes all on Fire, and the Tail erect. The Mouse seem'd soon recover'd of his Fright, would take a Turn or two, and sometimes more, pretty briskly, round the Viper, and giving now and then a Squeak, would run with a great deal of Swiftness into the Chops of the Viper, where it gradually sunk down the Gullet. All this while the Viper never stirr'd out of its Place, but lay in a Ring. It is to be observ'd, that no Viper will feed, when confin'd, except a female Viper impregnated. 1 The (297) The same I saw at Brussels, where a Soldier had catch'd a large Viper big with young. The House, where I and some of my Companions lodged, was near the FishMarket, where my Landlord had a Sow, and five small Pigs of nine or ten Days old. We got one of the Pigs, which we caus'd to be bit by the Viper in the Tail, and in four Minutes time chopp'd off the Tail, the Pig appearing to be sick and dizzy, and the remaining part of the Tail being swell'd; but I believe the bleeding sav'd it, for the next Morning it was well again. The same happen'd to another Pig, which we had got bit in the fore Foot, and staying seven Minutes after the Bite, cut off his Leg about two Inches above the Bite. After these two, we took the other three, and had them bit in several Places, whereof two died that Night, and the third recover'd, we having given it, about five or six Minutes afterwards, ten Grains of Emetic Tartar. This I try'd afterwards upon Dogs bit by Vipers, and I found that they all recover'd upon the Emetic Tartar. VI. Obser