Of the Manner of the Generation of Eels. By Mr. Benjamin Allen. THE Manner of the Generation of Eels, as familiar a Subject as it is, has been a Question unresolv'd ever since Aristotle, and reputed Spontaneous: And the Reason of the Difficulty of discovering it, is the different way of Generation, and that they breed in February, a time when few are taken but what are preserved in Trunks or Ponds, where they breed not. This I examin'd Two Years since, in some taken at a Mill, in which Holes they breed, especially near Gravelly Shallows, and found one with Egg, another with Six young ones in the great Intestine, which I call the Strait Bowel, that descends immediately from the Pylorus until the Winding begins; they were fastned to a very small Placenta each, which was fixt to the Intestine, the Meseraicks at that time were very turgid: The Eggs were on the Outside of the Intestine. It is certainly Viviparous, and feeds not, at least Gross, in the Winter, during all which they lye still till they have discharg'd their Young. The (665) The Parts distinguishing the Sex are discoverable, those of the Male affixt to the Extremity of the Kidney, the Females had a slender Gland transversly lying near the Bowel; but of this I dare not say much till fresh Subjects allow further Examination. Neither is this the only Fish of this Kind; for I find in Tho. Bartholine's Sixteenth History of his Second Century of Anatom. Histor. 1654. a Xiphia with Two Young form'd in the Intestinum Rectum; which too has no Ribbs as well as the Eele. In Salt-water Eels, I have not found the like, though searcht for; because, I am of Opinion, they do not breed, but are of the same with the Fresh-water ones, since such multitudes of Fresh-water Eels go down to Sea, and cannot return, yet are never taken at Sea, among the many brought hither; and there are Vestigia of their Beards in the Fresh-water ones. I shall acquaint you with one thing more observable at our Sea-Coast, with Relation to Mr. Pascall's Observations; that People that are sick are observ'd to change at the Turns of the Tide at the Place; so as this Notion has obtain'd among all the Maritime Towns: Up-Land, with us, it does not constantly hold, which may be accounted for, (if the Moon's Effect be Fluidity, as in Frosts is seen, a New-Moon ever Thawing, and is agreable enough to a Neighbouring Body of so quick a Motion) Upon dry Land the Moon may not have the same Force, For I observe in Capt. James's Voyage at Charleton-Island, the fix'dness of the Winter Frozen Air, occasioned the difference of Tides at the New and Full to be scarce greater than the common or neap ones; whereas SpringTides advanc't with the Summer. I have observ'd Agues, Tertian I mean, to come when the Moon has come to an Angle, as in One or Two exactly when the Moon was Setting, and the succeeding Fits (666) Fits when she culminated, the Third Fit at a Rising Moon, and so on. Deaths I have kept exact Account of, but can find no one Observation hold true, some at one Time of the Tide, some at another. VIII. 