Memoirs for a Natural History of Animals; containing the Anatomical Descriptions of several Creatures, dissected by the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris; Englished by Alexander Pitfield, Esquire, R.S.Soc. To which is added, An Account of the Measure of a Degree of a great Circle of the Earth: Published by the same Academy, and Englished by Richard Waller, Esquire, R.S.Secr. THis Book, containing the Anatomical Observations of 28 Species of Animals, and about 70 Individuals, was published in two very large Folio's by the Royal Academy at Paris, and owned by them, as their united Labours, as they are a Body. The Difficulty of procuring Copies of the French Edition, few of the Learned having ever seen the Book, tho' Printed some Years since, was no small Inducement, as the Translators say, to their Undertaking. A a a Waving [372] Waving what may be said as to their Preface, and of the first 12 Species of Animals; viz. two Lyons and a Lyoness, a Camelion, a Dromedary, a Bear, five Gazella's or Antilopes, a Chat Pard, a Sea-Fox, a Castor, an Otter, two Civet Cats, an Elke, and a Coati mondi, of all which, a large Account has been already given by Mr. Oldenburg in his Philosophical Transactions, Numb. 49. & 124. to which I refer the Reader; I shall proceed to give some Account of the sixteen remaining Species; all which were published in the Second Volumn of the French Edition. The Thirteenth Species then is the Sea-Calf, which, from Rondeletius, they observe to be of two kinds, the larger from the Ocean, the lesser from the Mediterranean, of which sort this was. That which is most extraordinary in it, was the Epiglottis, much larger than in other Animals; its Ventricle like an Intestine: it had all the Organs for Secretion of Urine, and the Kidneys seemed composed of several Glands, each provided with a particular Pelvis: it had Lungs like other Amphibious Animals; and the foramen Ovale giving Passage to the Blood from the Cava to the Aorta. It had the Cristalline more convex before, which is not common; and several Particularities in the Formation of the Eye favouring the Opinion of the Reception of the visual Species on the Retina. The Fourteenth, the Barbary Cow, an Animal something resembling a Deer: it had but two Teats, four Ventricles like other ruminating Animals, a very large Caecum, and no distinct Lobes in the Liver. It was in several Particulars like the common Cow. The Fifteenth is the Cormorant, wherein the shortness of the Legs is remarkable, and structure of the Feet for swimming with one Foot while the other holds the Prey: the largeness of the Oesophagus: want of the two Caecums, found in most Birds: the Kidneys separated from the other Viscera by a particular Membrane: the Tongue and Eye very small, this Water-Fowl being to feel for its Food under the Water, rather than discover it from afar. The [373] The Sixteenth, the Chamois or Rupicapra, in whose Ventricle a Ball was found; whence they take occasion to discourse of the Balls found in the Stomachs of Creatures, as Cows, Horses, &c. and observe that they are compos'd of lignous Fibreo and not Hair, as is usually thought: besides several other Observables, the Cornua uteri were very long and winding; the Heart had a Callous Apophysis, &c. The Seventeenth and Eighteenth are the Porcupine and Hedg-hog, a comparison being made between these two Animals. They observe the external Ear of the Porcupine to be like a Mans; the end of the Tongue armed as it were with Teeth; the Skin provided with an extraordinary Muscle for Ejaculation of the Quills. Of these they dissected six. In comparing the Hedg-hog with them, they describe the Musculus carnosus, which serves to bring the Head round into the Breech like a Foot ball; whereas in the Porcupines the Caecum was very large, in the Hedg-hog there was none at all; the Epididymis, in the Porcupine, was separate from the Testis; in the Hedghog united to it: in the Hedg-hog they observed a large Crystalline filling almost the whole Globe of the Eye. The Nineteenth are four Monkeys; where they in general observe, that this Animal more resembles Man in his outward shape than inward Formation of the Parts, which in many things are like a Dog; the genital Parts of the Male like neither; of the Female much like Woman; the Anfractuosities of the Brain like Mans, but the Processus mammillares were hard and membranous, which they are not in Man: they conclude with a comparison of the Muscles, which very much resemble those of Men. The Twentieth is the Stag of Canada and Sardinian Hinde. In the Stag, the length of the Intestines is observable, being in all 96 feet; and indeed, generally all grasing Animals have long Guts. In the Hinde, the four Ventricles were more distinguishable than in the Stag; the Cornua uteri long and winding, as in the Chamois: in the Trunks of the Jugulars were found 16 Valves, which were in situation contrary to the CirA a a 2 culation [374] culation of the Blood. In the Carotides were observed several transverse Incisures. The Twenty first, ten Pintadoes; where, after a full description of the outward Form, they describe several Parts like the common Hen; the Pancreas wanting: the Bladders in the lower Belly were raised by blowing into the aspera Arteria, whence they hint at the use of Respiration. The Twenty second, three Eagles: after having discoursed of the six kinds of Eagles, according to Aristotle and Pliny; they observe, That the Intestines, after the usual manner of voracious Animals, were flender and short, as also the Kidneys; some had the Caecum, others none: the Globe of the Eye was large, and the Cornea very prominent. In this Subject they first discovered that the Spinal Marrow in the middle of the Back was divided in two, with a Ventricle like those in the Brain betwixt: this was afterwards found common to all Birds. The Twenty third, two Indian Cocks, not our Turky Cocks. They were both Males: in one there was two Pancreas's, with three Cholidoci, and two Pancreatici ductus into the Intestine: in the other was but one Pancreas, and a single ductus: the Intestines were 12 feet long, and Caecum six: the Aspera Arteria made a fold in the Craw bone, after a most particular manner. The Twenty Fourth, six Bustards; in which the Craw was scarce distinguishable from the O Esophagus, and furnished with a great number of Glands most conspicuous in this, but to be found in most Birds: a particular description of the Gizzard follows, and of a third Caecum near the Rectum or the Bursa Fabritii: between the Cornea and Sclerotica a cartilaginous Circle was observed. They end with the discovery of a black Purse in the Eyes of Birds. The Twenty fifth, six Demoiselles of Numidia, a kind of Crane, in which they found the Liver very large, and without Gall bladder in some Subjects. In the Female a kind of Gland besides the Ovary, resembling the Testicles of the Male. Amongst other Observables, the Structure of the Wind-pipe was very unusual, entering with a winding into the Bone of the [375] the Sternum: at its Union with the Lungs it had a kind of Larynx: the Punctum Lachrymale in the Eye was double, &c. The Twenty sixth, eight Ostriches, in which they very largely discourse of the make of the Feathers of Birds, and joyning of the Fibres of each Feather to one another; a great part of which, seems to have been taken out of Mr. Hook's ingenious Book of Microscopical Observations, tho' they have not thought fit to own it. The Foot of this Animal seems contrived for a speedy Course, in which its Wings are of great use: the different length of the Intestines is observable, in some being 50, whereas in another they were but 29 feet; the Caecum, which was double, was wreath'd like a Screw, and the inside of the Colon provided with Valves or semilunar leaves,like Membranes. At the extremity of the Rectum was found a Bladder filled with Urine. In this Description they discourse largely of the Ureters and genital Parts of Birds, as likewise of the Lungs, and its Divisions or Diaphragmes, and its Communication with the Bladders containing the Ventricle and Intestines: together with the manner and use of Breathing in Birds, explaining it by a pair of double Bellows, &c. The Twenty seventh, the Cassowar, a Bird but lately known to the Europeans: it has no Quills nor Feathers for flying, and indeed but short Wings: that which was most unusual was the want of a musculous Gizzard, tho' a granivorous Animal; which might in some sort be supplied by the number of Ventricles. In this Subject they more particularly insist on the Muscles of the Thorax necessary for Respiration, and a curious description of the Parts of the internal Eye lid in Birds, as to its Mechanism and Use. The Twenty eighth. They conclude these Discourses with that of a very large Land Tortois, being four foot and 1/2 from the extremity of the Head to the Tail. Amongst the Internal Parts, the Structure of the Urine Bladder is very curious for its exteriour Tunicle being membranous: the inside was strengthened with an infinite number of musculous Fibres, not unlike those in the Ventricles of the Hearts of Animals. This Contrivance A a 3 seems [376] seems necessary for the pressing out of the Urine in this Animal, which has an unyielding Belly, not capable of Compression; nor was the formation of the Heart less observable: it had three Ventricles communicating with each other by holes in the Septum: the Vena Cava had two Branches into two of the Ventricles, which likewise received Blood from two Venae pulmonares to be transmitted to the Aorta, &c. Having been already too large, I shall pass by what was observed of the extraordinary Structure of the Lungs, with a Discourse of the Lungs of Animals in general, which they reduce to three sorts; treating next of Respiration, together with an Experiment of blowing up the Lungs of a Dog with a pair of Bellows; but I shall refer, as to the other Particulars in this and the former Anatomical Discourses, to the Book it self, very well deserving the Perusal of all Persons curious in Anatomy and Chirurgery, containing many useful Remarks and natural Discoveries, of which this is but a very imperfect Account. An Experiment to this purpose made by Mr. Hook. Vid. Ph. Tr. n. 28. p. 539. I shall say nothing of the Measure of the Earth added to the end of this Edition, a very full Account having been given of it in the Philos. Trans. Numb. 112. to which I refer the Reader: only the Translators thought fit to annex it, the Curiousness of its Subject, and exceeding Scarcity, being sufficient to recommend it to this Learned and Inquisitive Age. Confucius Sinarum Philosophus, sive Scientia Sinensis Latine exposita, Studio & Opera Patrum Societatis J E S U, &c. Adjecta est Tabula Chronologica Sinicae Monarchiae ab hujus exordio ad haec usque tempora. THE famed Chinese Philosopher CU M-FU-CU, or as we call him Confucius, being in so great esteem in his own Nation, and having never yet appeared in an European Dress, cannot but be gratefully received by the Curious, especially since the Version is performed [377] ed by very ancient Missionairs sufficiently accomplished in the knowledge of the Chinese Character, and at the Command (as is said) of the King of France. The Subject of this Book being foreign to our purpose, as consisting chiefly of Moral and Political Precepts and Apophthegmes of the Philosopher, I shall not enlarge thereon; only to recommend it, the Translators assure, That the Memory of the Author is still precious in China; and that in respect to him, his Posterity, after above 2200 Years, enjoys certain great Priviledges never granted but to the Royal Family; is exempt from all Taxes; and whosoever is advanced to the Degree of Doctor, gives, as a mark of his Respect to the great Confucius, some Present to the eldest of his Family, who is now 68 Generations removed from him. As to the time when Confucius lived, 'tis here precisely set down from the Chinese Annals: He was born Anno 551. ante Christum, and lived 73 Years; so that he was contemporary with the most ancient Greek Philosophers, and not long after Pythagoras, flourishing about the time of Tarquinius Superbus and the first Consulats, when Darius Hystaspis held the Persian Empire. He is said to be descended of a Branch of one of the most ancient Royal Families, which might not a little contribute to gain Respect and Credit to his Writings. But what may not improperly find place here, is, the Chinese Chronology, whereof such wonderful Relations have been brought into Europe: This Matter the Author of this Part of the Book, P.Couplet, seems well to have examined, and to have ~ the credible from the fabulous. They begin their Account with the Years of the Reign of King Fohi, who was the Founder of their Empire,about the Year before Christ 2952; rejecting, as ill grounded, and not to be believed, all that some Authors have said of the Times before, and following therein the Opinion of the best reputed Chinese Historians. This Fohi is said to have reigned 115 Years, and to have invented the Character now in use in China, and his Successor Xinnum is made to govern 140 Years: These two Kings are by our Author, by reason of some manifest Fables in their History, reputed doubtful; wherefore they, as from a more certain AEra, choose to begin their Annals with the third King Hoam-ti, and the Year before Christ 2697. This Hoam ti is said to have instituted the Sexagenary Cycles or Periods of 60 Years, according to which this Chronology is adjusted, and for want of which or the like, our Account of Time, both Sacred and Profane, is subject to too great Uncertainties; the Years of the Reigns of Kings, where the Months and Days are neglected, introducing great Errors in length of time, which [378] which by this method are prevented. Since this Institution, there are now 73 Periods elapsed, and the 74 is current; in which time they account that there has been 234 Kings of China, sprung from no less than 22 several Royal Families; the King now reigning being the second of the Race of the Tartars, who within these 50 Years have throughly subjected China. In this Chronology are set down the beginnings of each Kings Reign, with a short Character of the Prince, and the principal of his Acts, with the most notable Contingencies of his time: amongst the rest, several Eclipses of great Antiquity are recorded, whereby this account may be examined. The third King, Chuen-hio, is said to be the Author of the Chinese Kalendar, and to have appointed the beginning of the Year to be on the New-Moon next the beginning of the Spring, which the Chinese account to be when the Sun is in 5 gr. of Aquarius: this Account is now in use, tho' instituted 2500 Years before Christ. About 700 Years after, the King Chim-tam reduced the beginning of the Year to the Winter Solstice; but the former was restored about 100 Years before Christ, and still continues. The Years of this Account are Luni-solar, or consisting of 12 Lunar Months, half of 30 days, and the rest of 29 days, with the Intercalation of 7 mon in 19 years; so that 7 years in each Cycle have 13 mon. This Distribution of mon. was ordained by K.Yao, above 2300 years ante Christum, and is, if rightly intercalated, a more exact measure of the Caelestial Motions than our Julian Account or old Style, for that fails a day in 131 years, whereas this Account of the Chinese (which is nearly the same with the Jewish) fails but a day in 225 years, or 4 days in 900 years; but since their method of Intercalation is not here expounded, I shall not say more in a matter of such Uncertainty. 'Tis here said, that the famous Wall of China, extending above 400 Leagues, was begun by King Xi-Hoam-ti about the year ant.Chr.210. to hinder the Incursions of the Tartars, which in all Ages have infested this Country. The following Cycles are more amply described, and towards the End,the Transactions of the Romish Missionaries are inserted, with a brief account of that great Revolution in China, by the entire Conquest of that Kingdom by the Tartars. This Chronology ends with the year of Christ 1683, being the last of the 73d Cycle, since the King Hoamti; and contains in all 4380 years. 'Twill be needless to advertise, that this Account places the beginning of the Chinese Empire long before the Deluge, according to the Holy Scriptures; wherefore if this be to be wholly rejected, as fabulous; or if not,how it is to be reconciled with the sacred Chronology, belongs more properly to the Disquisition of the Divines. 