Reflections made by P. Francisco Lana S. J. upon an Observation of Signor M. Antonio Castagna,Super intendent of some mines in Italy, concerning the formation of Crystals: English'd out of the XI. Venetian Giornale de Letterati. IN the last month of September, being arrived in the Val Sabbia into a place call'd le Mezzane, where I knew that those Crystals are generated, I observ'd in a spacious round of a Meddow, seated on a hillock, some narrow places bare of all herbs, in which alone, and no where else thereabout, those Crystals are produced, being all sex-angular, both points of them terminating in a pyramidal figure, sex-angular likewise. I was told, that they were produced from the dews, because (forsooth!) being gather'd over night,the next morning there would be found others at such a time only, when it was a serene and dewy sky; and that upon the herbs of the meddow, and without the bounds of those bare and sterile places never any Crystals were to be found; besides, that the ground having been in some places bared of all greens, and reduced to the condition of those other places, yet no crystals were ever seen to have been form'd there. But I, when I had examined, that in the neighbour-hood of that hill there was no mark at all of any Mines, did conclude, that it might be a plenty of nitrous steames, which might withal hinder vegetation in those places, and coagulate the Dew falling thereon. And that those exhalations were rather Nitrous, than of an other kind, I was induced to believe, because Niter is not only the natural coagulum of water (4069) ter, as is manifest in artificial glaciations; but also it ever retain the above said sex-angular figure, altogether like that of those Crystals. Which may also be the very cause of the sex-angular figure in Snow; this being nothing else but water concreted by its natural coagulum, which is a nitrous exhalation. And to make it yet more manifest, that these are indeed expirations of niter I digg'd up some of the earth, and drew a Salt from it, which had both the tast and figure of Niter; though some grains of it were of a square, others of a pyramidal, figure. It therefore ought not to be affirm'd,that a dewy vapour is of it self able to be form'd into a solid gem; because, if that were so, such vapours being easily carried by any motion of the Air from those narrow places,and falling down in dew far from the same, Crystals would be formed in those other places; but they are only form'd there: Whence we may very probably inferr, that thence are raised the exhalations, which do concrete the dew, after such a manner as the vapour or exhalation of Lead coagulates Quicksilver. 