IV. An Account of Two Observations in Gardening, upon the change of Colour in Grapes and ~ Jessamine. In a Letter from Mr. Henry Cane. Hillingdon near Uxbridge, Oct. 31. 1720. B E I N G a little curious in the Collection of all my sorts of Fruits, amongst other sorts, I have three or four of white Muscadine Grapes, very distinguishable by their Tastes, one of which pleased me above the rest; a Cutting of which about six Years since I planted against a Wall, on an Eastern Aspect, where it has the Sun from its rise till half an hour after Twelve. The Soil is a stiff Clay, but to make it work the better, I meliorated that, by mixing some Rubbish of the Foundation of an old Brickwall, where it now grows. In January last was twelve Month I pruned it, and the Figure was thus, Left Hand T Right Hand Black At time of Year it shot at both Hands about twenty two inches of a side, before it came to a Joint; that on the Right was a very luxurious exuberant Branch, as big as the body of the Tree,the other side not half so thick or big, and the Leaves on the right were as big again as the other on (103) on the Left-hand, and I fancy the largest that were ever seen. The Right-hand bears a very large and good black Grape, and large Bunches; the Left-hand very good white Grapes, and I had last Year more Bunches of the White than of the Black; and whereas in all Vines bearing black and blue Grapes the Leaves die red, these died white on the black side as well as t'other. Last January I pruned the Tree again, but tack'd up more of the Righthand (being Black) than I did on the Left, for which reason I had this Year a great many more of the Black than I had of the White, and they ripen'd for the Season of the Year very well; divers Gentlemen of the Country both saw them last Year and this Year, and tasted of them. I gather'd the last about eight Days since, and the Leaves die White this Year also, being the second Year that ever it bore. I think to prune it pretty close on both sides this Year, and to plant out divers Cuttings of both sorts of it. I will mention one thing more to you, which I have experienced about 28 Years since; I do it because Mr. Lawrence in his first Tract of Gardening, makes mention of the Plant, but I take mine to be a much different Case from his; I mean the yellow and green strip'd Jessamine. In the Month of April, An. 1692, having a small Plant of our common white Jessamine, which stood in the Ground, and was no bigger than a Tobacco-Pipe, I cut it off at two Joints above the Ground, and grafted it with a Cutting of the Yellow-strip'd; it took and shot a small weak Shoot, and in a Month or five Weeks after, it was blighted, and I perceived it had killed the Graft, and some part of the Stock below, so I took my Knife and cut it to the quick, which was near the next Knot or Joint to the Ground, and let it stand, thinking to graft it again at Spring, as before, but forgot it till the Season was past. At length going that way by (104) by it, I saw it had broke out at the next Joint with several Shoots of they ellow and green strip'd; and not only there, but it had also made a strong Shoot from the Root, of yellow and green strip'd; after a while I took it up with Mold to the Root, and put it in a Pot, and it flourish'd all the Summer: And going to see my Son at Magdalen College, Oxon, I took it with me, and made a Present of it to the President of the College, where it flourish'd two or three Years, and then for want of shifting the Pot in time, it was matted so to the bottom and sides of the Pot, that it killed it; I also at that time gave the Fellows of that College, and several others of my Acquaintance an account of the Circulation and Descent of the Sap in that Plant, and I have try'd several other sorts of variegated Plants, but do not find any of them to transmute, as that Jessamine will do. I am, &c. H. Cane. V. 