[207] XVI. A Second Essay on the Natural History of the Sea Anemonies. By the Abbe Dicquemare, Member of several Academies, and Professor of Natural Philosophy, &c. at Havre de Grace. Translated from the French. I WAS concluding my essay on the sea anemonies inserted in the LXIIId volume of the Philosophical Transactions, when I discovered a fourth species of that animal, of which I could not at that time take a drawing; and I have reason to think, that I have since observed a fifth species. New obserRedde, Mar. 9, 1775. Second Memoire pour servir a l'Histoire des Anemones de Mer. Par M~ L'Abbe D I C Q U E M A R E, de plusieurs Academies Royales des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, Professeur de Physique Experimentale, &c. au Havre de Grace. Le Havre, 19 Aoust 1774. L O R S que je terminois le memoire insere dans le LXIIIme volume des Transactions Philosophiques, je decouvris une 4eme espece d'anemones de mer, dont je ne pus donner la figure. Je crois meme en avoir depuis appercu une V O L. LXV. G g 5 me. [208] observations have encreased the number of my experiments: my ideas have been enlarged, my views extended; and the phaenomena crowd in so fast upon me that I dare not flatter myself with the hopes of ever arriving at the end of this pursuit. The scarcity of high tides, the vicissitudes of seasons, and other similar impediments, make it less wonderful that a series of years should often elapse before it is possible to present the curious with any discoveries of which they might avail themselves, either by analysis, combination, or analogy, and thereby furnish general views and a chain of ideas leading to a new field of discovery, the usual effect of contemplation. I shall here endeavour as briefly as possible, to communicate some of the ideas that have been suggested to me by my last experiments. How many are the animal functions, which seem to depend upon sensibility and irritability; and yet how little are these faculties understood? how ignorant are we of their 5eme. De nouvelles observations ont multiplie mes experiences, mes vues se sont etendues, mes desseins se sont accumules, et les phenomenes se succedent de maniere a me faire croire que j'en verrai difficilement la fin. La rarete des grandes marees, la vicissitude des saisons amene des annees, des suites d'annees, avant de pouvoir offrir aux savans quelques decouvertes dont on puisse tirer avantage par l'analyse, la combinaison, l'analogie; et ouvrir par des vues generales, par la liaison des idees, &c. de nouvelles routes, fruits ordinaires de la contemplation. Essayons sans prolixite d'exposer ici quelques unes des vues que m'ont fait naitre mes dernieres experiences. De combien de fonctions ces deux facultes trop peu connues, la sensibilite et l'irritabilite, ne paroissent-elles pas etre la cause? mais combien encore la le ur nous est-elle cachee? Quoique les nerfs semblent etre chez nous les prin1 cipaux, [209] their cause? The nerves seem to be the chief, perhaps the only, organs of sensibility in man, and the muscular fibres to be the principal seat of irritability; yet how many are the doubts entertained concerning the parts that are and are not endowed with one and the other! how false and erroneous the conclusions relating to the effects they produce, notwithstanding the many experiments made on animals, whose interior structure is the most similar to our own! It is then from accurate observations on such animals as bear the least resemblance to our species that we may hope for new discoveries. The sea anemonies are exceedingly gelatinous, and at the same time so irritable, that even light affects them, though to all appearance destitute of eyes. Might not the rapid and singular reproduction of the parts of this animal be attributed to their gelatinous texture? and if so, may we not reasonably conclude, that the reproduction of our vascular and fleshy parts in the consolidation of wounds is in great cipaux, peut-etre meme les seuls organes de la sensibilite, et les fibres musculaires le ~ de l'irritabilite; que de doutes sur les parties qui en sont, ou n'en sont pas douees! que de fausses consequences sur leurs effets, malgre les experiences qu'on a faites sur les animaux qui se rapprochent le plus de l'homme par leur structure interieure! C'est donc en examinant avec une attention scrupuleuse ceux qui s'en eloignent le plus que nous pouvons esperer de nouvelles decouvertes. Les anemones de mer, animaux extremement gelatineux, sont si irritables, que la lumiere les affecte, quoiqu'ils ne paroissent point avoir des yeux. Une substance aussi gelatineuse ne seroit-elle point la cause principale~de la prompte et singuliere reproduction de leurs parties? et si cela est, ne pourions nous pas penser que dans la reproduction de nos chairs et de nos vaisseaux, dans la consolidation des playes, &c. G g 2 la [210] great measure owing to such a gelatinous matter; and should we not seek for means to increase or diminish the quantity of that matter as circumstances may require?I cannot quit this subject without reluctance.-If it be true, that earth and a gelatinous substance be the constituent parts of the muscular fibres of such animals as we are best acquainted with, and that only the latter be capable of irritation; doth it not follow, that the gelatinous nature of the sea-anemonies is the true cause of the effect produced upon them by the impression of light? and may we not conjecture, from the very gelatinous nature of these animals, and from their being affected by light on every part of their bodies, but more particularly on those that are recently cut; may we not, I say, from hence conjecture, that the gelatinous part of the muscular fibre is the only one capable of irritation in ourselves? Might not these animals, by a sober use of analogy, or by new experiments, lead us to a more la partie gelatineuse joue un grand role, et chercher les moyens de l'augmenter ou de la diminuer selon les circonstances. J'ai peine a abandonner cet objet. S'il est vrai que dans les animaux qui nous sont plus connus, les fibres musculaires sont composees d'une partie terreuse et d'une partie gelatineuse, et que cette derniere soit seule irritable, l'effet que produit la lumiere sur les anemones de mer n'auroitil point pour cause leur substance gelatineuse? ou ne pourrions nous pas conjecturer (de ce que ces animaux sont tres galatineux et affectes de la lumiere par toutes les parties de leur corps, plus meme par celles qui sont recemment coupees) que c'est reellement chez nous la partie gelatineuse de nos fibres musculaires qui est la seule irritable? Ces animaux ne pourroient-ils point, par une sorte d'analogie, dont pourtant il ne faut pas abuser, ou par de nouvelles experiences, nous faire mieux [211] more perfect knowledge of those singular enemies to man, the tape, the hair worm, and the sea dragon? I shall, however, leave these researches, to which nature seems to invite us, and from which useful discoveries may probably be derived, to those who apply solely to physiology; and shall here content myself with laying before the public, the observations and experiments to which I have confined my researches. I continued to observe the inferior half of a purple anemony of the first species, which I had cut in two on the 12th of July 1772, and which was alive on the 8th of April 1773, the day on which I concluded my former essay: it appeared to me to be daily recovering strength. On the 26th I found it at the bottom of the vessel. On the 1st of July it climbed up the sides almost to the surface of the water; and this it repeated on the 15th and 22d, above a twelvemonth after the time it had been cut. On the 25th a crab (cancer lanosus, cancer venenatus) half dried, mieux connoitre ces singuliers ennemis de les crinons, l'homme les draconcules, le tenia et autres? c'est a ceux qui s'occupent uniquement de la physiologie a suivre ce sentier, que la nature nous presente, et qui pourroit conduire a un champ sertile. Restreint a mes petites observations, et a mes experiences, je me contenterai de les faire passer sous les yeux du public. La moitie inferieure du corps d'une anemone ~ de la premiere espece, que j'avois coupee le 12 Juillet 1772, et qui avoit vecu jusqu'au 8 Avril 1773, jour ou je terminois mon premier memoire, continua d'etre observee; elle se fortifioit de jour en jour. Le 26 je la trouvai au fond du vase, le premier Juillet elle monta le long des parois presque a fleur d'eau, le 15 et le 22, c'est-a-dire plus d'un an apres qu'elle eut ete coupee, elle y monta encore. Le 25, un cancre (cancer lanosus, cancer venenatus) a demi desseche tomba dans le vase, y sejourna 2 quelques [212] dried, fell into the vessel, and after continuing in it some hours, infected and tinged the water in the same manner as if husks of walnut or pieces of soot had been thrown into it, which had such an effect upon the piece of anemony, that it threw up a great quantity of its intestines. On the 30th it laid hold of the side again, but was considerably shrunk. In the beginning of September it received a second injury, from another piece of anemony, which having been damaged in the same manner by the former accident, suddenly putrified and infected the water: more of the intestines were now discharged; and this last accident, added to the former one, affected the creature to such a degree, that it wasted gradually till the 8th of October, when it was totally dissolved. The sea-anemonies are undoubtedly susceptible of irritation to a very great degree; but is all that hath been described to be considered as the mere effect of irritability? Allowing that to be the case, will it not follow, that we are more in the dark concerning that faculty than is quelques heures, empoisonna et teignit l'eau, comme l'auroit fait le brou de noix ou un morceau de suie: la partie d'anemone en soufrit, jusqu'a jetter dehors une quantite d'intestins. Le 30 elle s'attacha encore, elle etoit alors diminuee de volume. Ayant eu a soufrir dans les premiers jours de Septembre d'une autre partie d'anemone, qui avoit essuye le meme accident, et qui se corrompant tout a coup gata l'eau, quelques intestins lui sortirent de nouveau; ce dernier accident suite du premier l'affecta si fort, qu'elle diminua de plus en plus jusqu'au 8 Octobre, qu'elle etoit totalement decomposee. Les anemones de mer sont sans doute tres irritables; mais peut-on rapporter tout ce qui vient d'etre expose au seul effet de l'irritabilite? et si cela etoit, cette faculte ne nous seroit-elle pas encore moins connue [213] is generally thought? It is usual to ascribe to it the palpitation that is perceived in the flesh of oxen, when cut from the animal, in the severed pieces and hearts of some reptiles, as the sloth, and other involuntary spasmodic motions; but is it possible, that determinate motions, that actions which seem to imply will,such as clinging,&c.which in our experiment were continued for the space of fifteen months, and, but for an accident, might probably have been carried on much longer, should arise from meer irritability without any other cause? The upper part of another sea-anemony, of which the inferior was become a perfect animal, lived six months after its being cut, and seemed to feed by suction upon pieces of muscle I put in its way. Sea-anemonies, which I had cut diametrically and perpendicularly, were not essentially hurt by that operation; which might be expected to disorder more than any the whole animal oeconomy, and to be particularly injurious to the basis of this animal, which connue que nous ne le pensons? On y rapporte communement les mouvemens qu'on appercoit dans la chair de boeuf separee de l'animal, aux troncons, au coeur de certains reptiles, a celui des paresseux, &c. mais des mouvemens determines, des actions, comme celle de s'attacher, et autres qui dans cette experience ont dure quinze mois, et qui auroient ete plus loin, peuvent-ils n'avoir que l'irritabilite pour cause? La partie superieure d'une autre anemone, dont l'inferieure etoit devenue un animal entier, a vecu six mois, et paroissoit se nourrir en sucant des morceaux de moule que je lui presentois. Des anemones de mer coupees diametralement et perpendiculairement ont soutenu fort bien cette operation, qui semble devoir deranger plus que toute autre l'oeconomie animale, et offenser considerablement la base, qui est dans ces animaux une partie tres essentielle, et dans quelques [214] which is its most essential part, and in some species is exceedingly tender. The two sides soon came together, but but were some time in contact before they connected. The junction, however, was at last so perfect, that no visible scar remained upon the robe, the continuity of the little blue edge was not in the least interrupted, and the mouth was perfectly restored. These semi-anemonies, which I still preserve, have long since acquired the appearance of the perfect animal, and perform all its functions, such as moving from place to place, swallowing,&c. This leads to the reflection that if, as hath been asserted, the power of loco-motion in these animals depends upon a certain combination of straight and circular tubes, it is not requisite, in order to exert it, that the continuity of these tubes be uninterrupted, since half an anemony newly cut changes its place with as much ease as a whole one. It will no doubt appear a curious enquiry, whether these semi-anemonies, after becoming in a manner whole ones, are capable of propagating their species. quelques especes, tres delicate. Les deux cotes se sont rapproches; mais ils ont ete long temps a se joindre solidement; cependant cette jonction fut operee au point qu'il ne restoit aucune marque sur la robe. La petite bordure bleue n'etoit nullement interrompue, et la bouche s'est reformee. Ces moities d'anemones que je conserve, et qui ont depuis longtemps tout l'air d'un animal entier, en font toutes les fonctions, comme de changer de lieu, d'avaler, &c. Sur quoi il faut remarquer que s'il est vrai, comme on la cru, que ces animaux changent de lieu au moyen de canaux droits et de canaux circulaires, du moins il est vrai aussi qu'il n'est pas necessaire que ces canaux soient entiers, puisque des moities d'anemones nouvellement coupees ne laissent pas de changer de place aussi facilement que l'animal entier. On seroit sans ~doute curieux de savoir si ces moities d'anemones, devenues [215] species. To this I can only answer at present, that I have not yet seen the generation of anemonies, except in the sea, or in animals newly taken out of it. It must further be observed, that these anemonies, perfect as they seem to be, may perhaps have only half the number of limbs of the whole ones, whereof they made a part: so that the whole wonder comes to this; that the severed halves of an animal should recover, and each taking the appearance of an entire individual, continue to live as if they were such. And such in fact I believe they are; but this I have not yet been able to ascertain, as the anemonies of this species have not all the same number of limbs, as it is always very difficult to count them, and as all those upon which I have hitherto made the experiment had a great number of them. However, as no manner of difference appears, I am inclined to suspect that new limbs shoot out between the old ones. After devenues en quelque sorte des animaux entiers, donnent des petits; il suffit de repondre ici que je n'ai jamais vu naitre des petits que des anemones qui etoient en mer, ou de celles qui en etoient tirees depuis peu de temps. Il faut encore observer, que ces pretendus animaux complets n'ont peut-etre que la moitie des membres qu'avoit l'animal dont ils faisoient partie, et qu'ainsi le merveilleux de cette operation se reduiroit a voir chaque moitie d'un animal se guerir, prendre la forme de l'animal entier, et vivre comme s'il l'etoit. Je crois qu'ils le sont en effet; mais je n'ai pu encore le verifier exactement, parceque les anemones de cette espece n'ont pas toutes le meme nombre de membres, qu'il est tres difficile de les compter, et que toutes celles que j'ai operees en avoient beaucoup. L'apparence est absolument la meme, peut-etre leur pousse-t'il des membres entre les autres. V O L. LXV. H h On [216] After having observed these animals during several years, both in the sea and in my study, it will no doubt be expected, that I should now give a particular account of their manner of propagation; but here I can only confess my ignorance, having never been able to get at the knowledge of any one circumstance relating to it: which makes me suspect, that these animals propagate without any communication of individuals. What I would here suppose is by no means unexampled. Among the aphides, for instance, (whose mode of propagation deserves to be further examined) though the sexual parts have been discovered, individuals nevertheless are found, which, though deprived of all communication one with another from the very moment they are brought forth, yet produce an offspring, which being likewise denied all intercourse, still propagates; and so on, through a great number of generations, which succeed each other very rapidly. The muscle also is thought to be an animal of the same nature. The On s'attend peut-etre qu'apres avoir observe ces animaux pendant plusieurs annees a la mer et dans le cabinet, je vais exposer ici tout cequi concerne leur generation: point du tout! il ne m'a pas ete possible d'en decouvrir la moindre chose; ce qui m'a porte a croire, que cette espece se multiplie sans qu'un individu ait besoin de la participation d'un autre. Ce que j'etablis n'est pas sans exemple. Les pucerons, dont la generation merite encore d'etre examinee, quoiqu'on y ait decouvert des parties sexuelles, offrent, a ce qu'on assure, des individus qui separes les uns des autres des la sortie de la mere, donnent des petits, et ceux-ci prives de meme de toute communication en donnent encore, ce qui a ete pousse jusqu'a un grand nombre de generations, parcequ'elles se succedent promptement: mais pour ne pas sortir des eaux; la moule paroit dans le cas que nous supposons. La [217] The anemonies of the second species are not only less obvious to our observation, but it is with difficulty they are preserved in any degree of perfection. They cannot be taken out of the sand without depriving them of their natural position. Common mixed sand kills them in a few days; and that which is purified affords them no longer the slime, the small insects, or other necessary sustenance, which we cannot possibly divine. In plucking them from their native soil their bases generally suffer, and the wounds in that part are frequently mortal. One of the safest expedients is to gather with them the pebbles to which they adhere; or what is still preferable, to observe them in their natural element the sea. It is there that, without the least hostile appearance, they are seen to make an incredible havoc. I have seen an anemony of a moderate size swallow a smelt at least six inches long. The limbs of this species, which are much thicker than those of any other, being clipped, new ones shoot out as in former cases. The progress of this reproduction, La seconde espece est non seulement plus difficile a observer que la premiere, mais il n'est pas facile de la conserver en bon etat. Hors du sable elle n'est plus dans sa position naturelle. Celui qui n'est pas purifie la fait perir en peu de jours; celui qui est net lui fournit plus le limon, ou les petits insectes, ou quelqu'autre commodite, que nous ne devinons pas. On arrache la base presque toujours,plus ou moins, en la detachant, et ces plaies sont souvent mortelles. Le moyen le plus certain c'est d'apporter avec elle, les cailloux sur lesquels elle est attachee, ou, ce qui est bien mieux, de l'observer a la mer. C'est la que sous l'exterieur le plus paisible, on lui verra faire un degat etonnant. J'ai vu telle anemone de moyenne grosseur avaler un eperlan de six pouces de long. Les membres de cette espece heaucoup plus grosse que les autres repoussent aussi apres avoir ete coupes. Les proH h 2 gres [218] duction, which is effected in a few days, is scarce perceptible; and it is so perfect, that no protuberant rim or visible scar remains. Neither the colour, the size, nor the form, are any ways altered. ~This anemony is able to creep when deprived of its limbs; which seems to prove, that the communication, which is thought to exist between the limbs and the hollow muscles, may be interrupted, without sensibly restraining the animal's locomotive powers. Those limbs, it is true, enable the animal to crawl when turned on its back; but do by no means serve as legs for walking steadily, as hath been erroneously asserted, and misrepresented in ill-drawn figures. I made large incisions on several anemonies in the sea, which healed in a very short time; but I always took care not to injure the basis, as any considerable wound, and especially the least rent, on that part of this species proves often mortal. I do not mean to question the possibility of what hath been repeatedly said of an gres de cette reproduction, qui s'opere en peu de jours, sont difficiles a ~ et a suivre, elle est si parfaite qu'il n'y a aucun bourrelet. La couleur, la grosseur, et la forme sont les memes. Lorsque l'anemone a les membres coupes, elle ne laisse pas de marcher: ce qui prouve que si, comme on la cru, il y a communication entre les membres et les muscles creux, elle peut etre interceptee sans que les mouvemens en soient sensiblement genes. Ces membres servent bien a l'anemone a se trainer, lorsqu'elle est retournee ou renversee; mais ils ne lui servent pas de jambes pour marcher ferme, comme on l'a pretendu, et comme le representent des figures mal dessinees. J'ai fait de grandes incisions a des anemones qui etoient en mer; elles se sont cicatrisees; mais j'epargnois la base: car les blessures considerables y sont souvent mortelles dans cette espece, sur tout les dechiremens. Ce qu'on a dit et repete d'une anemone, qui ne pouvant rendre une moule, l'avoit 1 fait [219] an anemony, which not being able to void a muscle it had swallowed, forced it out through a rent it made with the muscle itself at its basis, and that this rent was soon after perfectly cicatrized. But a love of the marvellous too plainly appears throughout the whole narration, and the inferences drawn from the fact give room to suspect, that little attention had been paid to the concomitant circumstances. Wounds of this nature often occasion a disorder in the interior part of the anemony, the progress of which soon brings on its total dissolution. Of all the kinds of sea-anemonies I should prefer this for the table: being boiled some time in sea-water they acquire a firm and palatable consistence, and may then be eaten with any kind of sauce. They are of an inviting appearance, of a light shivering texture, and of a soft white and reddish hue. Their smell is not unlike that of a warm crab or lobster. I have seen some of the young of this species, but have been able to make no discovery concerning their mode of propagation. A defait sortir en faisant avec cette moule une dechirure a sa base, laquelle s'etoit cicatrisee peu apres, n'est pas impossible: mais l'amour du merveilleux s'appercoit dans la maniere de rapporter le fait, et les consequences qu'on en tire font voir qu'on avoit peu observe avant et apres. Ces sortes de playes laissent souvent dans l'interieur une maladie dont le progres fait perir l'anemone. De toutes les aspeces d'anemones de mer, celle-ci m'a paru devoir meriter la preference pour la table. Lorsqu'on les a fait bouillir un peu longtemps dans l'eau de mer, asin qu'elles soient bien cuites et un peu fermes, et qu'on les sert pour manger a quelle sausse on juge apropos, elles ont un air ragoutant, une consistence legere et tremblence, une couleur douce melee de blanc et d'un rouge agreable, et une odeur d'ecrevisse ou autres cancres encore chauds. Je ~ rien pu decouvrir ~ la generation de cette espece: j'ai vu seulement de jeunes individus. ~ [220] A detail of my former observations and experiments would be here an useless repetition: I shall therefore only observe, that the semi-anemonies of the third species have so entirely recovered the parts they had been deprived of, whether the superior or the basis, that no manner of difference could be perceived. Some of the men of learning, whom my first discoveries brought to my study, imagined that the basis was the most essential part of the animal, and that the mouth and limbs were to be considered only as extremities. I was myself inclined to adopt that notion, seeing that in all the species abovementioned, the basis ever gave the greatest marks of sensibility, that the intestines are situated in that region, &c. but who, on seeing the upper part of an anemony producing a new basis perfectly similar to that which had been severed from it, will any longer maintain such an opinion? During the great equinoxial tides, in places from whence the sea seldom Le detail de mes observations et de mes premieres experiences seroit ici une repetition inutile: il suffira de dire, que les moities d'anemones de la 3eme espece ont repousse fi parfaitement ou la base on la partie superieure qui leur manquoit, qu'il n'est pas possible de s'en appercevoir. Parmi les savans que mes premieres decouvertes attiroient a mon cabinet, il s'en trouva qui crurent que ce qui constitue essentiellement l'animal etoit dans la base, et que les membres et la bouche devoient en etre regardes comme les extremites. J'etois moi meme tente de le croire, d'autant que la base m'a toujours paru plus sensible dans toutes les especes, et que c'est dans cette region que sont contenus les intestins, &c. mais quelle apparence de restec dans cette persuasion, lorsqu'on voit la partie superieure reformer une base tout a fait semblable a celle qui a ete retranchee? Pendant les grandes mers d'equinoxe, aux [221] seldom recedes, I saw several of these animals which had been cut through the middle, perhaps by some crab, by the sudden collision of pebbles, or by some other means, which though not unnatural, we may yet not be able to account for. They soon began to recover. I should have taken them for a new species, had not my former experiments pointed out to me the gradual reproduction with which nature, no less various than impenetrable in her resources, kindly indulges them. Are not the accidents which happen to birds, quadrupeds, and even to man, frequently followed by effects, which seem intended to convince us, that we lay too great a stress on the resources of art, and trust less than we ought to do to nature? Although I could never yet arrive at any certain knowledge concerning the generation of this species, I suspect that it is different from that of the others. Several of my specimens have suddenly let fall to the bottom of aux lieux d'ou la mer se retire rarement, j'ai appercu plusieurs de ces animaux qui avoient ete coupes par la moitie du corps, peut-etre par quelque cancre, par le choc subit de quelque caillou, ou par quelque autre moyen meme naturel que nous ne pouvons pas prevoir; ils commencoient a se retablir. Je les aurois ~ pour une espece differente, si les experiences que j'avois tentees auparavant ne m'avoient fait connoitre le retablissement gradue que leur accorde la nature, dont les ressources sont d'autant plus inconnues qu'elles sont sans nombre. Ne voit-on pas de temps en temps, a l'occasion des accidens qui arrivent aux oiseaux, aux quadrupedes, et a l'homme meme, des effets qui semblent destines a nous convaincre, que nous comptons trop sur les ressources de l'art, et trop peu sur celles de la nature. Quoique je n'aye eu aucun eclaircissement sur la generation de cette espece, je soupconne qu'elle est differente des autres. Plusieurs individus ont jette tout [222] of the vessel in which they were kept, a slimy substance, nearly of the colour of their bodies, perhaps somewhat yellower, which, in the microscope, appeared to consist of a great number of globular particles, pretty much resembling the spawn of fish. The first anemonies I procured of the fourth species, had probably been brought near the coast by fishermen, for they generally keep in deep water where they are found adhering to oyster-shells. I caused several to be brought into my study, where being put into sea-water they soon expanded. The largest, which opened first, puzzled me not a little. I could discover no basis, but only saw limbs projecting on every side. I flattered myself that a greater expansion would clear up the difficulty; on the contrary it only added to it. The others opened, and appeared in a shape much more similar to that which I expected. I saw a basis, a body, a great tout a coup au fond du vase ou je les conservois une espece de limon, de la couleur de leur corps, ou un peu plus jaunatre, lequel examine au microscope paroit forme d'une tres grande quantite de globules qui auroient assez l'air d'un fray. Les premieres anemones de la quatrieme espece que je trouvai avoient vraisemblablement ete apportees au bord de la mer par les pecheurs: car elles se tiennent au large, et sont attachees sur les huitres. J'en fis apporter plusieurs a mon cabinet et les ayant mises dans l'eau de mer, elles s'ouvrirent. La plus grosse, qui s'ouvrit la premiere, me donna bien de la tablature. Je ne savois ou en pouvoit etre la base, appercevant des membres de tous cotes; j'attendois a etre instruit par un plus grand epanouissemen: mais plus il avancoit moins je voyois clair. Les autres individus s'ouvrirent, ~ se presenterent sous une forme plus approchante de celle que j'attendois. Je vis ~ base, un corps, une grande quantite de membres tres [223] great number of slender limbs, the assemblage of which formed, at first, different kinds of tufts, and afterwards various fine plumes of a whitish hue inclining to carnation. I returned to my first specimen, which now appeared to consist of two animals joined at the basis. I became very solicitous to unravel the mystery of this singular union. At length I perceived, that this was a monster of its kind, consisting of three different animals blended into one. It perished twelve days after I had received it. Its internal structure, though in great confusion, was yet an interesting object to those who are acquainted with that part of this animal, and who have a taste for comparative anatomy. It appeared in such disorder that I can scarcely conceive how it was possible for the creature to live in that condition. The state of dissolution, which began soon after, and the impossibility of representing every part at one view, prevented my taking a drawing of this remarkable inside. Its mouths tres delies dont l'assemblage formoit des especes de houpes, ensuite de beaux panaches, le tout blanc tirant un peu sur la couleur de chair. Je retournai a mon premier individu, qui me parut double, les bases etoient reunies. Quelle est cette union singuliere, me disois-je a moi meme. Enfin je m'appercus que c'etoit une anemone monstrueuse, dans laquelle trois individus sembloient etre confondus. Douze jours apres, cette anemone a peri. Sa structure interieure, quoique tres confuse, ne laissoit pas d'etre interessante a voir, pour quiconque connoit celle de ces animaux, et a du gout pour l'anatomie comparee. Elle etoit dans un boulversement si grand que j'ai peine a comprendre, comment l'animal avoit vecu. Il ne m'a pas ete possible de deffiner cet interieur a cause de l'etat de decomposition qui commencoit, dailleurs il falloit voir partie apres partie, ce qu'il n'etoit pas aise de bien rendre. Ses bouches de cote et d'autre etoient bien V O L. LXV. I i faites, [224] mouths on either side were regularly shaped, but rather less than the usual size; and in the folds, formed by the bases, several limbs appeared, which seemed to belong to a third animal, incorporated in the two that were more apparent. The sequel will shew, that this is not the only peculiarity I have observed in this species, which by its manner of propagating seems particularly calculated for producing monsters. The anemonies of this kind are commonly found adhering to the convex shells of oysters: they abound in the road of Havre de Grace, so that I had no difficulty in procuring whatever number I chose. A viscose matter, like that which is seen on fish newly caught, issues from them. I have opened between two or three hundred of a large size, but I never found in any of them either whole or parts of animals; and yet as often as I offered them a piece of oyster or muscle, they would swallow it. The large anemonies of this species are generally surrounded by a multitude of small and middle-sized ones, faites, seulement un peu petites. Dans les duplicatures que formoient les bases on appercevoit des membres qui paroissoient appartenir a un troisieme individu confondu dans les deux plus apparens. On verra par la suite que ce n'est pas la seule singularite que m'ait offerte cette espece, qui paroit tres propre, par sa maniere de se perpetuer, a donner des productions monstrueuses. C'est ordinairement sur l'ecaille la plus convexe des huitres que ces anemones se trouvent attachees: il y en a dans les rades du Havre une quantite prodigieuse; il ne m'a donc pas ete difficile de m'en procurer. Elles rendent une matiere visqueuse comme celle du poisson nouvellement peche. Quoique j'en aye ouvert de deux a trois cens fort grosses, je n'ai jamais trouve dedans aucun animal ou portion d'animal: mais lorsque je leur ai presente des morceaux d'huitres ou de moules, elles les ont avales. Autour d'une grosse anemone de cette espece on en voit ordinairement 3 une [225] ones, which form very pleasing groups (see the figure, TAB. VI.). In searching into the mystery of this numerous progeny, I observed that the bases of some of these small anemonies were not perfectly round, and that in others they mutually adhered one to another: nor was this communication nothing more than apparent; for whenever I slightly touched with a pointed instrument, the basis between two connected anemonies, they both contracted at the same time. I also observed, that this common basis distended itself gradually near the middle, where it assumed the appearance of a net, which bursting at length, left every small anemony to live by itself. I moreover perceived, that there issues out of the body of the anemonies of this species, through little pores, and also out of their mouths, a considerable number of round, soft, limber threads, of the thickness of a horse-hair, and of the colour of the animal. On viewing them through a lens, I observed a great une multitude de petites et de moyennes qui forment de tres jolis groupes (voyez la planche). En recherchant tout ce qui pouvoit me devoiler le mistere de cette nombreuse progeniture, je remarquai, qu'il y avoit certaines petites anemones dont la base n'etoit point ronde, et d'autres unies entr' elles par la base. La communication n'etoit pas seulement apparente: car lorsque je touchois legerement avec une pointe fine la base entre les deux petites anemones, elles se fermoient en meme temps; je remarquai de plus, que cette base commune s'elsrgissoit peu a peu par le milieu, et y devenoit comme un filet, et qu'enfin elle s'y rompoit, ce qui procure a chaque petite anemone la faculte de vivre en particulier. J'observai encore qu'il sort du corps des anemones de cette espece, par de petits trous, et de leur bouche, un nombre considerable de cordons ronds, mous, delies, de la grosseur d'un crin, et de la couleur de l'animal: je les examinai a la loupe; ils me parurent I i 2 a ~ [226] great resemblance between them and the spermatic vessels of men, when stripped of their outward sheath. Through a common microscope I saw sibres in them which crossed each other in every direction: and by means of a solar microscope, which magnified them to a diameter of five inches, they appeared of a very close texture, which, when decomposed, seemed to consist of an infinite number of vessels, crossing each other in almost every direction; but farthest extended lengthwise. A liquor seemed to circulate in the largest of these vessels, which, where they meet, form kinds of ganglions like the optic nerves in man. Such an organization cannot surely but be intended for valuable purposes. Is it not probable, that these threads contain certain knots, bulbs, knobs, or buds, which open in time, and cleaving to the bodies on which those threads are extended, produce small anemonies, which at first commumicate one with another, but afterwards separate by a contraction, a peu pres figures comme les vaiseaux spermatiques dans l'homme depouilles de leur gaine. J'y voyois au microscope simple des fibres croisees on tout sens, et au microscope solaire appercues sous un diametre de cinq pouces, on voyoit un tissu serre, qui venant a se decomposer laissoit appercevoir une quantite immense de vaisseaux croises presque en tout sens, et qui cependant s'etendoient plus sur la longueur. Une liqueur paroit circuler dans les plus gros, qui en se rencontrant forment des especes de ganglions comme les nerfs optiques dans l'homme. Une telle organisation est sans doute destinee a des usages precieux. N'y auroit-il point dans ces cordons certains naeuds, bulbes, boutons, aeuilletons, qui venant a s'ouvrir et a s'attacher sur les corps ou ils sont etendus, y formeroient autant de petites anemones qui d'abord communiqueroient l'une a l'autre, et se separeroient en [227] traction, as I have myself observed in some of them. This I concluded from my having never found any young ones in the great number of anemonies I have opened; at the same time that I have seen prodigious quantities, of a very small size, adhering to oyster shells. This, however, amounted to no more than a conjecture; which not being confirmed by subsequent observations, I might have been tempted to conclude from analogy, that (as in the case of the first species) the young ones are brought forth, ready formed, through the mouth, at certain seasons in which I have not yet opened any of these anemonies. Analogy is too frequently misapplied, and in this instance it would have led me into error. A knowledge of the operations of nature is to be acquired by close inspection, not by loose conjectures. From a series of observations, which to avoid prolixity I shall not here repeat, I have learnt, among other singularities, that these animals having their bases irregularly distended, and their extremities closely adhering to some hard body, commonly ensuite par etranglement, comme j'en ai vu. Je raisonnois ainsi, n'ayant trouve aucuns petits dans les anemones que j'avois ouvertes, tandis que j'en voyois prodigieusement et de tres petites sur les huitres. Ce n'etoit donc qu'une conjecture qui, ne se realisant pas, auroit pu me laisser penser par analogie que, comme dans la premiere espece, les petits naissoient tout formes par la bouche, dans certaines saisons ou je n'avois pas ouvert de ces anemones. Cette analogie, dont on -abuse si souvent, m'auroit trompe. Il saut voir, et non pas deviner les operations de la nature. Des suites d'observations, que je ne puis raporter ici sans prodixite, m'ont appris entr'autres singularites, que ces animaux ayant la base inegale-ment etendue et fortement attachee par les extremites sur un corps dur, souvent unc [228] commonly an oyster shell, they, by suddenly shrinking, leave upon that body some small portions of the rim of their bases, in size inferior to a lentil. These little shreds have, at first, no determined figure; but gradually assume the rounded shape of a drop of tallow: at length, in the space of two or three months a hole appears in the middle, which forms the mouth. An internal organization, dilatations and contractions, sensibility, and other gradual improvements, soon after prove them to be animals similar to those to which they owe their origin. It might be imagined, that some time must elapse before they can grow to a circumference of two feet. I have not been able to follow them to that degree of increase; but I have seen them in my house, where they are far from being so favourably situated as in the sea, growing to a size large enough to convince persons of ever so little observation, that they belong to the species of the large anemonies. The same shred often produces several une grosse huitre, ils se retirent sur eux memes, et laissent par ce moyen sur ce corps une ou plusieurs petites portions du bord de leur base, moins grosses qu'une lentille. Ces petits lambeaux paroissent d'abord informes, ils s'arrondissent peu a peu en goute de suif; enfin dans l'espace de deux a trois mois, on y observe un trou dans le milieu, c'est la bouche; une organisation interieure, des dilatations, des contractions, la sensibilite, et autres progres successifs, qui en font une anemone semblable a celle dont ils tirent leur origine. Il paroit qu'avant d'avoir acquis deux pieds de circonference, cela doit etre long. Je n'ai pu les suivre jusqu'a ce terme: mais je les ai vues chez moi ou elles ne sont pas dans des circonstances semblables a celles de la mer, devenir assez grandes pour que les gens les plus grossiers pussent les reconnoitre pour appartenir aux grandes anemones. Souvent [229] several small anemonies, which at first adhere together, and in time are separated by the little contraction I have already mentioned; but if they happen to remain connected, they then produce singular forms and often monsters. Besides the anemony abovementioned, the old one of this species, which hath particularly unravelled this mystery to me, was formed in the shape of a Y, having two perfect bodies, whereof the bases, both perforated, adhered and communicated to the same trunk; of which I convinced myself by observing the food which descended into the main trunk: neither did these two anemonies, thus connected, ever appear to me to have different inclinations, as is the case with those that are once separated. Is it not reasonable therefore to suppose, that in this state of union, every want was common, and each had its separate desire of satisfying it; and that, to keep up the habitual exercise of the animal functions in each, both were upon all occasions prompted to the performance vent plusieurs petites anemones se developent du meme lambeau, de sorte qu'elles sont adherentes entr' elles. Peu a peu il s'y forme, comme je l'ai fait connoitre, un petit etranglement qui les separe. Quelquesois aussi elles restent unies: alors il en resulte des singularites, ou meme des monstres. Outre celui que j'ai cite, l'anemone mere de cette espece, qui m'a devoile plus particulierement le secret, etoit formee comme un Y, c'est a dire qu'elle avoit deux corps parfaits dont les bases (cependant percees) etoient adherentes a une meme tige, a laquelle ils communiquoient, ce dont je me suis assure, en observant la nourriture qui descendoit jusques dans le gros tronc: aussi ces deux anemones ainsi reunies ne m'ont-elles jamais paru avoir deux volontes comme celles qui ne le sont pas. Chaque anemone n'avoit-elle donc point dans celle-ci d'inclination particuliere a satisfaire au besoin commun? n'etoit-elle point sollicitee a faire ses fonctions pour en entretenir [230] formance of the same function at the same time? It is to be presumed, that two similar united quadrupeds would vie with each other in taking the necessary nourishment, in order thereby to satisfy the particular need, which each would have, of keeping up the habit of deglutition, and the dependant functions. (Vide TAB. VI.) In order to imitate the effects of nature, I clipped several small pieces from the rim of the bases of anemonies of this species, and preserved them. Some of them became small anemonies, similar to those that had been torn off of their own accord; but many perished without producing any thing. May we not conclude from this experiment, that the prolific pieces contained a small bulb intended to become a new anemony, and to be soon after torn off by the mother; and that those which perished, either contained none of those bulbs, or such as were not sufficiently formed to thrive and grow after a violent tenir l'usage? Il semble que deux quadrupedes reunis et parfaitement egaux, chercheroient tous deux a manger, peut-etre a l'envi l'un de l'autre, pour satisfaire au besoin particulier a chacun d'entretenir l'usage de la deglutition, de tout ce qui en depend, et de ce qui la suit immediatement (voyez la fig.). Pour aller au devant des effets naturels, j'ai coupe des petits morceaux des bords de la base des anemones de cette espece, et je les ai conserves; plusieurs sont devenus de petites anemones, comme celles qui etoient provenues des arrachemens que s'etoient faits les anemones, et un grand nombre a peri sans produire. Ne pourroit-on pas penser d'apres cette experience, que ceux de ces morceaux qui ont produit renfermoient un petit bulbe propre a devenir anemone, et destine a etre bientot detache par la mere; et qu'au contraire les parties qui ont peri n'en con~ pas, ou n'en renfermoient que de trop peu formes pour se developer apres 2 une [231] violent amputation? I the rather incline to this opinion, having observed, that among the pieces I had cut off, those particularly succeeded which appeared interiorly replete and of a certain thickness. If so, this conjecture may possibly lead us to another. It is well known that the fresh water polypi increase by section, and that being cut into several pieces, each of these pieces becomes an animal similar to the original one. Thus a polypus being divided in 2, 4, 8, 16, or more parts, each of these parts probably contains a bulb capable of becoming another polypus. In the course of my experiments, the small pieces I cut off from the bases and robes of the anemonies did not exceed the 500th part of the animal; it is not therefore to be wondered, if many of them did not prove prolific; they probably contained none of the fertile bulbs. The reproduction of the polypus by section will then no longer be attributed to any of its rude and shapeless parts; but rather to une section violente. Je suis porte a le croire, parce qu'en coupant ces morceaux, ceux ou je voyois une certaine epaisseur, un certain arrondissement interieur, sont ceux qui m'ont paru reussir. S'il en est ainsi, cette conjecture pourroit peut-etre nous conduire a une autre. On sait que les polipes d'eau douce se multiplient par la section, et qu'un tel polipe etant coupe en plusieurs morceaux, chaque morceau devient un animal semblable au premier. On coupe pour cet effet un polipe en 2, 4, 8, 16 parties et plus, chacun des ces morceaux est la 16eme partie de l'animal, il se peut que dans chaque 16eme partie il se trouve un petite bulbe dispose a devenir un polipe. Dans mes experiences, en coupant de petits morceaux du bord de la base et de la robe de mes anemones, je ne coupois pas la 500eme partie de l'animal: on ne doit donc pas s'etonner, si beaucoup de ces petits morceaux nc produisent rien; ils ne contiennent peut-etre pas de bulbe. Alors la reproduction du polipe par sa partie ne paroitroit plus due a une portion informe; mais a une VOL. LXV. K k partie [232] to parts that are organized in a particular manner, to eggs, or perhaps to something more than eggs. The singular propagation of several kinds of this animal seems to favour this conjecture. In so minute an object as the freshwater polypus, much is easily overlooked; but in the seaanemonies, although we are far from seeing every thing, yet it is possible, even without the assistance of glasses, to discern a great deal which must escape us in the most diligent examination of the other animal. Although I speak this from experience, I do not pretend that our ideas concerning reproduction, and especially the reproduction of parts, should be confined to what is here asserted. It is known that every part of a living animal, &c. hath an organization far surpassing any idea we can form of it; that its least particles are still organized; and there is no saying how far this may extend. In seeds, &c. this organization admits of an astonishing degree of expansion, partie plus particulierement organisee, a un oeuf, ou meme a quelque chose de plus qu'un oeuf. La propagation singuliere de plusieurs especes de polipes semble favoriser cette conjecture. Les polipes d'eau douce sont si petits qu'il est facile de ne pas tout appercevoir. Dans les anemones de mer, quoiqu'on soit fort eloigne de tout voir, on peut cependant, meme sans le secours de la loupe, remarquer bien des choses qui echappent dans l'observation du polipe d'eau douce. Quoique je parle ici d'apres l'experience, je ne dissimulerai pas, qu'on ne doit point y restreindre ses idees a l'egard de la reproduction et surtout de la reproduction de parties. On sait que toutes les parties d'un etre vivant, &c. ont une organisation qui surpasse infiniment l'idee que nous pouvons nous en faire; que ses moindres particules sont encore organisees quoiqu'infiniment petites; on ne sait pas meme jusqu'ou cela peut aller: cette organisation permet dans les graines, &c. des developemens [233] expansion, which doth not always take place in other cases; but yet often operates when we are the least aware of it. Far then from suffering ourselves to be surprized at strange effects in nature, we should in some measure expect them; we should be constantly upon the watch for them, and take pains to be apprized of them, and study to turn them to the benefit of mankind. Practitioners in surgery know how often they have been surprized by unexpected events. Such events, which commonly are only the objects of unavailing wonder, would perhaps be less unprofitable, if they were cautiously observed and correctly described by persons of knowledge, less fond of the marvellous than friends to truth. Lobsters are seen to produce new legs when deprived of their old ones; but not exactly at the places where they had been cut off. Their manner of growing is much like to that of our teeth, the interior part and very origin of the claw producing a small one, &c. and this reproduction seems not to take place when the lobster is mens d'une grandeur etonnante, qui n'ont pas toujours lieu ailleurs: mais qui operent quelquefois au moment qu'on s'y attend le moins. Loin donc de se laisser surprendre par des effets singuliers, on devroit en quelque sorte les attendre, et etre tres attentif a les saisir, a les connoitre, et a en profiter. Ceux qui s'occupent de l'art de guerir savent combien ils ont ete surpris par des effets inattendus. Ces effets, dont on se contente le plus souvent de parler avec etonnement, ne seroient peut-etre pas steriles, si observes avec attention par des gens instruits, et aussi peu avides du merveilleux qu'amis de la verite, ils etoient decrits avec precision. Les pieds des ecrevisses repoussent; mais ils ne repoussent pas immediatement de la partie coupee; ils poussent a peu pres comme nos dents, c'est-a dire que de l'interieur et vers l'origine du pied, on en voit pousser un petit, &c. et cette reproduction ne K k 2 paroit [234] is deprived of the phalanx next to the body. There are worms which are known to multiply by section; although their smallness, which renders it very difficult to examine them, and the similarity they bear to other worms, whose reproduction we know to be imperfect, may furnish some grounds to doubt, whether this reproduction be so compleat as hath been imagined. There is also a reproduction in the tails of lizards which cannot well be accounted for. There are experienced naturalists who still make a doubt of the multiplication of the polypi by section; and others who absolutely deny it, pretending that what hath been taken for a single animal may as probably be a sheath, the common work, and habitation of a multitude of small insects. For my part, far from doubting the possibility of such multiplications, of which I have seen positive instances in the sea-anemonies, I am not for having recourse to the particular supposition of any kind of eggs for explaining it. I believe indeed, that propagation is paroit pas avoir lieu, lorsque la phalange la plus proche du corps de l'ecrevisse a ete enlevee. Certains vers se multiplient par la section: on doutera peut-etre que cette multiplication soit aussi complette qu'elle a paru l'etre, parce qu'on n'y voit pas si bien a cause de leur petitesse, et de l'analogie qu'ils peuvent avoir avec d'autres vers dont la reproduction est imparfaite. On voit de meme une reproduction qui laisse quelque chose a desirer dans la queue du lezard. Il se trouve encore des savans qui suspendent leur jugement sur la multiplication du polipe par la section; d'autres la nient absolument. Ils croyent que ce qu'on a pris pour un individu pourroit etre un fourreau, ouvrage et logement de certains petits insectes. Loin de douter de la possibilite de ces multiplications, dont j'ai des exemples decisiss dans les anemones de mer, je ne les assujettis pas meme a des especes d'oeufs; je crois seulement que c'est la voye la plus ordinaire; et les reproductions [235] is most usually carried on by eggs. But the reproduction of very considerable and the most essential parts of my sea-anemonies convinces me, that there are wonders far beyond any thing we can imagine, which make a part of the regular established course of things. The sections of the sea-anemonies of this species differ in nothing from those of the former, except that I never yet observed an upper half producing a new basis; the contrary never yet failed. The first observation of any note, was made on the 16th of June 1773, in the presence of seven surgeons whom the singular phaenomena of reproduction had induced to visit my study. The animals of this species being very large, I only operated upon young ones, and on that day cut one that was not thicker than a goose-quill. On the 30th the upper part was perfectly restored, and the fold which is seen near the upper extremity of the body of this species, appeared exactly like that I had cut off. By productions de parties essentielles et tres considerables de mes anemones de mer m~obligent a croire, que les merveilles, qui font partie de l'ordre etabli, vont encore plus loin que notre imagination. Les sections operees sur cette espece d'anemones de mer, ont donne a peu pres les memes resultats qu'aux autres, cest-a dire, que coupees par la moitie du corps, elles ont repousse une partie superieure: cependant je n'ai point encore obtenu de base aux parties superieures que j'en avois privees. La premiere operation notable se fit le 16 Juin 1773, en presence de sept chirugiens que les phenomenes de la reproduction avoient attires a mon cabinet. Comme cette espece est fort grosse, je n'avois opere que de jeunes individus: celui que je coupai alors n'etoit meme que de la grosseur d'une plume a ecrire. Le 30 la partie superieure etoit totalement reproduite, et le pli qu'on voit vers l'extremite superieure du corps dans cette espece paroissoit exactement comme celui que j'avois retranche. L'exercice m'ayant rendu plus adroit, je suis parvenu a couper ~ [236] By practice I arrived at such dexterity as to cut in two, at one snip of the shears, in a very straight line, an animal of this species as thick as my arm. This was performed on the 18th of October: before the end of the month new limbs appeared, of which the large ones, within the tufts, shot forth long before the others. On the 10th of December the animal began to eat, though its mouth was scarcely formed. The upper part was still alive. I tied a string round some of these anemonies whilst they were considerably extended length-ways, and pulled the noose very tight. They had the dexterity to free themselves in a few hours of this troublesome ligament, by gradually withdrawing their upper extremity: then on measuring the noose I found it not quite six lines in diameter. This species is good to eat. Among the sea-anemonies brought me by my fishermen, I have some reason to think that I have discovered a fifth species, which seems to reside only in places from whence the sea seldom recedes. They appeared to me to be d'un seul coup de ciseaux et bien droit un de ces animaux gros comme le bras. C'etoit le 18 Octobre; avant la fin du mois il reparut de nouveaux membres. Les gros qui sont en dedans des panaches paroissent longtemps avant les autres. La bouche a peine formee le 10 de Decembre l'animal a mange. La partie superieure vivoit encore. J'ai lie de ces anemones grosses comme le bras, lorsquelles etoient fort allongees, et je les ai serrees fortement; elles ont eu l'adresse de se degager en peu d'heures d'un lien aussi incommode en depassant peu a peu leur partie superieure. Alors j'ai mesure le diametre du naeud; il n'avoit pas six lignes. Cette espece est bonne a manger. Entre les anemones de mer que m'ont apporte mes pecheurs, je crois en avoir decouvert une cinquieme espece. Elle paroit resider dans les lieux que la mer ne decouvre jamais. Sur ce que j'en ai vu, elle est petite comme la premiere, ses 1 membres [237] be as small as those of the first species: their limbs, which are somewhat confusedly arranged in three rows, are also nearly the same. They have the form and the knobs of the second, and the threads of the fourth species, which latter, however, are coloured. Their mouths are round, and bordered with small reddish limbs; only one white spot is seen on one side of the mouth, whereas two of them appear in those of the third species. The middle between the mouth, and the limbs is of a greenish hue, with narrow variegated streaks which extend from the center to the circumference. The specimens I have seen were white on the superior edge of the robe, of a golden yellow in the middle, inclining to a duskier colour towards the bottom; that is to say, the ground-colour of the robe changed gradually from white at the top to brown at the bottom, passing, by imperceptible transitions, through a succession of yellow shades, partaking more or less of the colour of gold. This whole robe was speckled with light crimson spots, and no rim appeared membres sont a peu pres semblables, elle en a trois rangs un peu confondus. Elle a de la seconde la forme et les mamelons, et les cordons de la 4eme, mais colores; la bouche est ronde bordee de petits membres rougeatres; une seule marque blanche se trouve a cote de la bouche, comme on en voit deux dans la 3eme espece. Le milieu entre la bouche et les membres est verdatre, ~ de petites rayes de couleur differente, qui vont du centre a la circonference. Les individus que j'ai-vus etoient blancs par le bord superieur de la robe, d'un jaune dore par le milieu, et s'obscurcissant vers le bas, c'est-a dire, que par des nuances impereeptiblement fondues, plus ou moins dorees, le fond de la couleur de cette robe passoit du blanc au brun. Toute cette robe etoit mouchetee d'un beau cramoisi clair, et il n'y avoit point de bordure [238] peared at the basis. These anemonies had been found on old volutes, called spindle-shells (fucus brevis). Another specimen which was found adhering to an oystershell was of a draker colour; but its limbs bore some resemblance to the horns of cattle: they were of a pale green, with circles of a fine dark brown, which had a very pleasing effect. These limbs appeared, at first sight, to tend towards the center, by the continuation of some semi-circles which gradually diminished. I have said little concerning the mechanism by which these animals perform their different functions, not thinking myself sufficiently acquainted with it to satisfy even the most chastised curiosity. I leave to others the cultivation of this field, where the genius of system may find an ample range. As in physics the only real information is derived from a knowledge of facts, I thought it my duty to confine bordure a la base. Ces anemones etoient attachees sur de vieux coquillages a volute, qu'on nomme fuseaux (fucus brevis). Un autre individu peche depuis, attache sur une huitre, avoit la robe d'une couleur obscure, mais les membres paroissoient comme certaines cornes de boeuf de couleur douce, d'un blanc verdatre, avec des cercles d'un beau brun noir qui produisoient un tres bel effet. Ces membres sembloient au premier coup d'aeil prolonges vers le centre, par la continuation de quelques demi cercles allant en diminuant. J'ai dit peu de chose du mechanisme par lequel chaque faculte, chaque fonction s'opere dans les anemones de mer, ne pouvant me flater d'en connoitre assez pour satisfaire a la curiosite la mieux reglee. C'est un champ ouvert a quiconque voudra le cultiver, c'est une carriere dans laquelle l'esprit de systeme pourra prendre son essort. Comme en matiere de physique les connoissances tirees des faits sont les seules qui nous eclairent, j'ai cru devoir m'en tenir a la simple exposition [239] confine myself to the bare exposition of those I have observed. Not that I am apprehensive of being thought too prolix or tedious by those for whom I am writing: I know how much they value every truth, and every new discovery: but the habit of observation and experiment produces circumspection and a quick sense of difficulty. Besides, I find that the system-mongers, though a numerous body, have been but unsuccessful since accurate observations are come into vogue. It is this circumspection which prevents my proceeding inconsiderately from the science of bodies to that of ideas. The sea-anemonies give evident marks of sensibility; shall I thence conclude, that a soul animates them; or shall I grant that they are deprived of sensation, although favoured with the organs of it? I shall draw no conclusion, neither do I think myself at liberty to amplify upon that subject. My sition de ceux que j'ai eu lieu d'observer. Ce n'est cependant ni la crainte de paroitre diffus, ni celle d'ennuier ceux pour lesquels j'ecris qui m'a retenu; toute verite leur est chere, toute decouverte leur est precieuse: mais l'habitude de contempler et d'experimenter rend circonspect, et fait appercevoir les difficultes: d'ailleurs les faiseurs de systemes, quoiqu'en grand nombre, ne sont pas heureux depuis qu'on observe bien. Cette meme circonspection ne m'a pas permis de passer inconsiderement de la science des corps dans celle des idees. Les anemones de mer me paroissent douees de sensations, en conclurai-je qu'un esprit les anime, ou quelles sont privees du sentiment dont elles ont les organes? Je n'en concluerai rien, et je crois meme mon memoire peu susceptible d'amplifications dans cette partie. VOL. LXV. LI <inferred>Les</inferred> [240] My very earliest observations shewed me that the sea-anemonies feel and prognosticate within doors the different changes of temperature in the atmosphere. I had not leisure at that time to form tables of their various indications; but I have since done it. This fact, if applied to practice, might be of use in the formation of a sea-barometer, an object of no small importance, which several ingenious men have hitherto endeavoured in vain to furnish us with. I should prefer the anemonies of the third species for this purpose, their sensation being very quick; they are also easily procured, and may be kept without nourishment. Five of them may be put in a glass vessel, four inches wide and as many in depth, in which they will soon cleave to the angle formed by the sides and the bottom. The water must be renewed every day, and, as they do not require a great quantity of it, as much may be fetched from the sea (if they be kept on land) as will supply them for several days; its settling some Les anemones de mer ressentent d'avance, et annoncent dans le cabinet les effets de la temperature; c'est ce que j'ai eu lieu de remarquer des mes premieres observations; j'etois trop occupe alors pour en dresser des tables: je l'ai fait depuis. Ce fait mis en pratique pourra suppleer le barometre marin, dont plusieurs savans ont fait inutilement la recherche jusqu' ici: ce ne seroit pas un petit avantage. Les anemones de la troisieme espece m'ont paru plus propres que les autres a cet effet, parcequ'elles sont tres sensibles. Il est aise de s'en procurer, de les loger, de les conserver sans les nourrir &c. On mettra cinq de ces anemones dans un vase de verre d'environ quatre pouces de diametre sur autant de hauteur, elles s'y attacheront a l'angle que forme le fond avec les parois. Il faut renouveler l'eau tous les jours. Comme la quantite d'eau necessaire n'est pas grande, si on est a terre, on peut en faire prendre a la mer, pour plusieurs jours; elle n'en sera [241] some time will only improve it. I commonly renew the water every evening, because if that change makes any impression on the animals, it will not interfere with the principal observation, which, when I was forming my tables, I always took at a time equally distant from the renewals of the water. If the anemonies be at that time shut and contracted (as in fig. 14. of my first essay) I have reason to apprehend an approaching storm; that is, high winds and a rough agitated sea. When they are all shut, but not remarkably contracted, they forebode a weather somewhat less boisterous, but still attended with gales and a rough sea. If they appear in the least open, or alternately and frequently opening and closing, they indicate a mean state both of winds and waves. When they are quite open, I expect tolerable fine weather and a smooth sea. And lastly, when their bodies are considerably extended and their limbs divergent, they surely prognosticate fixed fair weather and a very calm sera que meilleure etant reposee. Je suis dans l'usage de renouveller l'eau le soir, parceque si ce changement d'eau fait quelque impression aux anemones, il est alors compte pour rien; et quant a l'observation la plus notable, lorsque je dressois mes tables, je la faisois a la moitie du jour. Si les anemones sont toutes fermees, et retirees sur elles memes, comme dans la figure 14 de mon premier memoire, j'ai lieu de craindre qu'il ne survienne quelque tempete, c'est a dire gros vent, la mer sort agitee, et troublee. Lorsqu'elles sont toutes fermees ~ etre retirees, cela annonce un temps un peu moins facheux, comme grand frais de vent, la mer agitee, &c. Si je vois mes anemones entrouvertes ou s'ouvrant et se fermant de moment a autre, c'est pour la mer et pour le vent un etat moyen. Quand elles sont ouvertes, j'attends un temps assez beau, la mer sera peu agitee; enfin ont-elles le corps allonge, et les membres tres etendus, c'est le presage d'un beau fixe et L ~ 2 d'une [242] calm sea. There are times when some of the anemonies are open and others shut; the number must then be consulted; the question is decided by the majority. Accuracy in these observations is in a great measure acquired by habit. At sea the glass may be swung, in the same manner as the compass, by suspending it between two concentric circles, moving upon pivots that cross each other at right angles, so that the rolling of the ship may agitate the water as little as possible. The anemonies that are used as barometers should not be fed, for then the quantity of nourishment might influence their predictions. Anemonies of this and of the first species live and do well for several years, without taking any other food but what they find disseminated in the sea water: but should a respite of some days be granted them, they might then be fed with some pieces of muscles or soft fish, and thus restored to their original vigour. Whenever d'une mer tres calme. Il y a des momens ou des anemones sont ouvertes ~ d'autres fermees; alors on conclut par le plus grand nombre, on va pour ainsi dire a la pluralite des voix: l'habitude aide a se decider. En mer on poura suspendre le verre, comme une boussole ou compas de mer, entre deux cercles concentriques ou balanciers, avec des pivots qui se croisent a angles droits, afin que le tangage et les roulis du vaisseau n'agitent l'eau que le moins qu'il sera possible. Il he faut point nourrir les anemones qui servent de barometre: car alors elles pourroient se fermer ou se tenir ouvertes, a raison de la nourriture qu'elles auroient prise. Une anemone de cette espece, et de la premiere, vit tres bien et en assez bon etat, pendant plusieurs annees, sans prendre d'autre nourriture que celle qu'elle trouve disseminee dans l'eau de la mer; cependant, si on avoit lieu de leur accorder une vacance de quelques jours, on pourroit les nourrir, et consequemment leur redonner leur premiere vigueur par quelques morceaux de moule ou de poisson mou. Lorsque ~ [243] ever the vessel is sullied by the sediments of salts, slime, the first shoots of sea-plants, &c. it may, on changing the water, be cleansed by wiping it with a soft hair-pencil, or even with the finger, carefully avoiding, however, to rub or press hard upon the anemonies. Should any of them drop off during this operation, they may be left at liberty, for they will soon, of their own accord, fix themselves to some other place. Should any of them die, which will soon be discovered by the milky colour of the water, and an offensive smell on changing it, it must be taken out, and on the first opportunity, another of the same species be put in its place; those of a moderate size are the most eligible. Such barometers might be applied as ornaments; for as they can be made by the persons who are to use them, they might consult their own taste in the choice of the colours and shades of the limbs. A few anemonies of the first species might also be added, for as those of the third generally take up their habitation le vase sera sali par le depot des sels, le limon, ou par des commencements de plantes marines, &c. on pourra en changeant l'eau, le nettoyer avec un pinceau doux, ou meme avec le doit, observant de ne passer que legerement le doit sur les anemones pour ne les pas comprimer. Si une anemone se detache, on la laissera en liberte, elle s'attachera en un autre lieu. Si elle vient a perir, ce qu'on reconnoitra par une tres mauvaise odeur en changeant l'eau, et parceque cette eau devient un peu laiteuse, on retirera l'anemone, et on lui en substituera a la premiere occasion une autre toujours de meme espece et de moyenne grosseur; ce sont les meilleures. Ce barometre est agreable a la vue, car on peut choisir des anemones dont les membres soient d'une couleur haute, douce, ou variee selon son gout, puis qu'on le construit soi meme: on peut encore y ajouter plusieurs anemones de la premiere espece. Comme celles de la troisieme se tiennent vers le fond du. [244] tion at the bottom of the vessel, these commonly keep near the surface of the water; and their various bay, crimson, dark, purple, green, and other colours, would add no small lustre to the variegated object: nor should their prognostications concerning the temperature of the air be altogether neglected. Perhaps they may at first produce young ones, which, if attended to, will be seen to encrease gradually. Should the anemonies of this first species not be used for observations, they might be fed and thus kept in a most flourishing condition. The form, size, and ornaments of this barometer may also be accommodated to any place or situation. The only inconvenience attending it would be the changing of the water every day; but even this amounts to no more than winding up our watches: neither is it absolutely necessary to do it exactly at the same hour; nor is there any harm in the common practice of leaving the same water for several days, unless, indeed, it be inclined to du vase, celles-ci aiment a etre a la surface de l'eau, leur couleur brun-rouge, cramoisi, pourpre, fonce, vert, &c. fera un bel effet, et leur avis sur la temperature n'est pas tout-a-fait a negliger. Elles pourront dans le commencement donner des petits, qu'on verra grossir par la suite. Si on ne vouloit pas tenir compte des indications des anemones de cette premiere espece, en les nourissant elles ne seroient que plus belles. Ce barometre est encore fort commode, aise a placer, et susceptible de toute espece de forme et de decoration. Il peut etre aussi grand et aussi petit qu'on veut. La seule incommodite est de changer l'eau chaque jour, ce qui n'est guere plus difficile que de remonter sa montre, encore n'est-on pas strictement oblige de le faire a la meme heure, et il n'y a aucun inconvenient dans l'usage ordinaire de laisser la meme eau pendant plusieurs jours, a moins qu'elle ne soit exposee a se ~ par une chaleur extreme, ou par quelqu'autre inconvenient peu [245] to corruption, by being exposed to a great degree of heat, or by some other uncommon accident. If ever the barometer was to be removed, the vessel might be left empty for a day or two, without any considerable detriment to the anemonies; they will contract, and continue fixed to the sides, and resume their wonted manaeuvres, as soon as fresh sea water is poured upon them. One necessary caution is, to dispose of the barometer in a place where, as nearly as possible, the same degree of light prevails throughout the day: for it must be observed, that these animals, on being suddenly removed out of the dark into a strong light will frequently contract in an instant, though they will soon recover after their usual form. As the simple barometer, the Torricellian tube, which is the best of all, doth not always agree with the visible state of the local atmosphere, and that frequently its indications are far from being exact; it cannot be expected that the sea-anemonies should excel in this respect, and that their indications peu ordinaire. On peut meme vuider l'eau pour transporter le barometre ou l'on veut, pendant un jour entier et plus, sans que les anemones perissent; elles se ~ sur elles memes, et se tiendront attachees. On leur procurera de nouvelle eau de mer, et elles reprendront leur maneuvre ordmaire. Une attention necessaire c'est de placer autant qu'on le peut le barometre d'anemones dans un lieu ou il regne pendant tout le jour une lumiere a peu pres egale: car on doit se souvenir, que souvent les anemones qui passent subitement d'un lieu obscur a une grande lumiere se ~; mais elles reprennent bientot l'etat ou elles ~ reste. Comme le barometre simple, le meilleur qui existe, le tube de ~, n'est pas ~ parsaitment d'accord avec l'etat visible de ~~ ~ ou ~ observe, et qu'assez souvent ses indications ne sont pas ~ ~ ~, on ne doit pas ~ que les ~ de mer remplissent [246] indications should always coincide with the above instrument. But as, with all its imperfections, the barometer abovementioned is of great utility, why should not also this, formed of sea-anemonies, be adopted notwithstanding their little irregularities. These are not the only animals that are influenced by the approaching changes of weather; the petrel, different sorts of gulls, the scink, the leech, the little fish of the Danube, the cetaceous animals, the sea-urchins, &c. are all said to feel and prognosticate those variations. Amidst the more important objects of utility and necessity, every pleasurable improvement should not be totally neglected. I shall not therefore scruple to communicate what ideas have occurred to me, tending to this purpose. It appears to me, that the large anemonies, and even the smaller ones, being arranged in an advantageous manner, and properly grouped with acorns, barnacles, sea-weeds, &c. might furnish architecture, painting, plissent mieux cet objet, ni qu'elles soient toujours d'accord avec lui; et comme avec ses inexactitudes, le barometre est un bon instrument, on pourra se servir de celui d'anemones, independemment de ses petits caprices. Ces animaux ne sont pas les seuls qui ressentent l'influence de la temperature prochaine, l'oiseau-tempete, le petrel, les poulets de mer, le mabouja, la sangsue, le petit poisson du Danube, les cetacees, les oursins, &c. passent aussi pour la ressentir, et meme pour l'annoncer. Les vues d'utilite, de necessite, ne doivent point nous faire negliger celles d'agrement: je ne craindrai donc pas de devoiler ici celles que j'ai sur ce point. Il me semble que les grandes et meme les petites anemones de mer prises dans des positions variees les plus avantageuses, et artistement groupees entr'elles ou avec les glands de mer, les conques anatiferes, les plantes marines, &c; fourniroient [247] ing, sculpture, and all the arts dependant upon drawing, with a variety of elegant and pleasing ornaments, especially in naval and hydraulic architecture, in which, contrary to all the maxims of true taste, and regardless of probability, chimerical ornaments are often introduced, which have no manner of relation or affinity with the structures they are intended to decorate. They are often seen affixed to substances to which the things they represent have little or no tendency to adhere; whereas the sea-anemonies spontaneously cling to every substance in and even out of water, and might therefore being grouped into picturesque festoons, be with great propriety substituted to the flowery garlands and other such ornaments which preposterously decorate the sterns of ships and the frizes on barges, and not seldom the most stately edifices, such as bridges, sluices, &c. Explaroient a l'architecture, a la peinture, a la sculpture, et a tous les arts qui ont le dessein pour base, de beaux ornemens, sur tout pour l'architecture navale, et meme pour l'architecture hydraulique, ou, contre les regles du gout, contre la vraisemblance, on employe souvent des ornemens chimeriques et peu analogues au sujet. On groupe, on attache ces objets a des lieux peu propres, peu disposes a les recevoir; au contraire les anemones de mer s'attachent a tout ce qui se trouve dans l'eau et meme hors de l'eau. Elles pourroient etre substituees aux rozettes, former des groupes, des especes de guirlandes pittoresques dans la decoration des poupes des vaisseaux, dans les frises qui ornent les canots, et dans quelques edisices hydrauliques, comme les ponts, les ecluses, &c. VOL. LXV. M m Ex [248] Explanation of TAB. VI. which represents a group of sea-anemonies of the fourth species, adhering to an oyster-shell. Fig. 1. A contracted anemony of the natural and middling size adhering to the oyster-shell. Fig. 2. Anemonies united to the same trunk, compared in the essay to the letter Y. At its basis a little shred appears ready to be torn off in order to become a new anemony. Fig. 3. and 4. Two young anemonies moderately expanded, in the middle of which the mouths appear. Fig. 5. An anemony, somewhat more grown, on which the projecting rim appears. Fig. 6. Eight small anemonies, two of which adhere together, as do also two others, which, however, are upon the point of being separated by the contraction of the part that unites them. Other small anemonies, of different sizes, are seen upon the oyster-shell. Explication des Figures. La planche represente un groupe d'anemones de mer de la quatrieme espece, attachees sur une huitre. Fig. 1. Anemone de grosseur naturelle et moyenne attachee sur l'huitre et fermee. Fig. 2. Ancmones reunies sur une meme tige, elle est designee dans le memoire par la forme d'un Y. On voit au bord de sa base un petit lambeau pret a en etre detache pour devenir une anemone. Fig. 3. et 4. sont deux jeunes anemones plus ou moins ouvertes, au milieu desquelles on remarque la bouche. Fig. 5. Anemone un peu plus forte, dont on voit le bourlet. Fig. 6. Ce sont huit petites anemones, dont deux sont adherentes ensemble; deux autres le sont aussi, mais pretes a se separer par l'etranglement de la partie qui ~ unit. On remarque sur l'huitre d'autres anemones plus ou moins petites. XXI. Account ~ ~ ~ fig. 6. fig. 5 DICQUEMARE.DEL. ~. ~, ~. 