N.18L Orbitae quatuor Interiorum Satellitum Saturni cum Ansae omnium maxime diductae conspiciuntur * * * * B Fig: 3 Fig: 4 E R H Z R K E Fig:1 G [78] An Account of an Engine that consumes Smoak,shown lately at St. Germans Fair in Paris Communicated by Mr. Justell R. S. S. TO burn all sorts of Wood in the middle of a Room without making any Smoak, is a thing so extraordinary,that all those that have heard speak of it, as well Philosophers as others, have asserted it impossible: but Mr. Dalesme Enginier, prosecuting his discoveries, has found out a Machine, which tho' very little and portable, consumes all the Smoak of all sorts of Wood whatsoever, and that so, that the most curious eye cannot discover it in the Room, nor the nicest Nose smell it, altho' the Fire be perfectly open. This has given such satisfaction to all that have seen it, and to the King himself, that he has caused the Experiment to be made several times before Him. This Engine is made after the manner represented in Fig. 1. and is composed of several hoops of hammer'd Iron of about 4 or 5 Inches diameter, which shut one into the other: It stands upright in the middle of the Room, upon a sort of Trevet made on purpose. A is the place where the Fire is made, where if you put little pieces of Wood, it will not make the least smoak, neither at A or B, over which you cannot hold your hand within half a foot, there comes out so great a heat: If you take one of these pieces of Wood, out of the Fire at A, it smoaks presently, but ceases immediately so soon as it is cast in the Fire again. The most faetid things, as a Coal steept in Cats-piss, which stinks abominably when taken out of the Fire, notwithstanding in this Engine makes not the loast ill scent. The same did Red-Herrings broiled thereon; on the other side all the perfumes are lost in it, and Encense makes no smell at all, when burnt therein. We have since learnt that this is not shown, but when the Fire at A is well kindled, and the Tunnel B D very hot,so that the Air that seeds the Fire cannot come that way, but must all press in upon the open Fire; whereby the Smoak and Flame is all forced inwards, and must pass through the heap of burning Coals in the Furnace A,in which passage the parts thereof are so dispersed and refined, that they become inoffensive both to the Eye and Nose. A 