An Accompt frow the same Dr. Brown Concerning an Vn-common Lake, called the Zirchnitzer-Sea,in Carniola. HAving cross'd the River Dravus, and pass'd Mount Luibel in the Carnick Alpes, by that noble passage, cut through the Rooks, and vaulted like that of Pausilype near Naples, I had a desire to take a view of the Lake of Zirchnitz, so much spoken of, and written on by so few; and therefore I went unto Crainburg upon the River Savus, and so to Labach, the chief City of Carniola; from whence I continued my Journey in Carniola betwixt the Hills and a great Marsh, till I came to Brounizza, two leagues from whence and beyond the Hills is seated the said Lake, receiving that name from Zirchnitz, a town of about 300. houses. This Lake is near two German Miles long, and one broad. On the South-side thereof lyes a great Forrest, wherein are many Deer, and wild Boares, Wolves and Bears. On the North side the Country is flat; but the whole Valley is encompassed with Hills, at some distance from it. This Lake is well fill'd with Water for the greatest part of the Year; but in the Month of June it sinketh under ground,not only by percolation or falling through the pores of the Earth, but retiteth under ground, through many great holes at the bottom of it: Andin the Month of September it returns by the same, and so in a very short time fills up the Valley again. As the time of the waters Descent is short, especially when L l l l l the (1084) the Lake grows lower, and hath for a while shewed some abatement, so the Ascent and return is speedy; for at these holes it mounteth with such violence,that it springs out of the ground to the height of a pike, and soon covers the tract of Earth again. And this p ece of ground in the time of the retirement and absence of the Water is not unfruitful, but by a speedy and plentiful production of Grass yieldeth not only a present sustenance for the beasts of the field, but a good provision of hay for the cattle in the winter. Not have the Inhabitants thereabout only the benefit of the ground b these Commodities, but also the recreation and profit by Hunting. For at the time of the waters absence, Hares, Deer, Boares and other Animals come into it out of the neighbouring Forrest and Country, and are taken several wayes by them. The Lake is not only thus fill'd with water, but every year well stored with Fish. The Prince of Eckenberg is Lord of it and of much Country thereabout: But upon restoring of the waters all have liberty to Fish; and the fishermen, standing up to the wast at the holes before-mentioned, intercept the passage of the Fish, and take a very great number of them, which otherwise would be secure for some Months under the Earth, and not fall to return in September. The fish of this Lake have a closer habitation than those of any other I know; for, they pass some Months under the Earth, and a good part of the Winter under Jce. I could not learn, that there were any Otters in this Lake, (which otherwise must probably have taken the same Course with the fish;) not that there were any remarkable extraneous substances, any Vegetables, or unknown Fishes brought up by the water, but those which come up are of the same kind with those which descended. But beside these holes at the bottom of the Lake (of which there are many) there are also divers Caverns and deep places in the Country of Carniola, evenwhere there is no water; after the like manner as we have in the Peack-country, and at Elden-hole in England. halfe (1085) Halfe an English mile nearer the Lake than the town of Zirchnitz, stands a village named Seadorf, and neigher to the Lake than this, another vil age called Niderdorf: between these two there are Corn-fields; yet sometimes these lands are also drown'd; and'tis conceived, that there are divers subterraneous Caverns under them: for,it happens sometimes at Niderdorf, that the ground sinks in several places upon the sudden retiring of the Lake; and the aforesaid Prince of Eckenberg was once so curious, as to descend into one ho'e, through which be pushed under an Hill, and came out on the other side; as I was informed by Monsieur Andreas Wifer the present Judg of Zuchnitz, and also by Johanes Wifer, who hath formerly held the same place. The people who are acquainted with the Lake, wet and dry, know where they are, and have a particular knowledge of the eminencies, vallies and inequalities of it: for,the bottom of the Lake is not even, or near about the same depth, but sometimes two foot,and then suddenly twenty yards deep. And because the Fish haunt the deep places more than the shallows; they have given names to the 7. chiefest cavities or valleys in the Lake. I took boat at Niderdorf; and went divers miles on the Lake, passing over the five first valleys. I went also to a noted Stone, commonly called the Fishers-stone, which hath somewhat of the use of the Nilescope-pillar at Grand Cairo; for by a certain appearance of that, they conjecture how soon the Lake will retire. I also passed by a noted Hill, which, when the Lake is high, becomes a pleasant island; and so Ireturned, &c. Venice June 20. 1669. L l l l l 2 An 