A Paper of Mr. Flowers, containing some unknown Ancient Characters, with Remarks thereon by Francis Aston Esq; S. R. S. THese Characters being Two and Twenty in Number, are all that could be distinctly Collected out of the Ancient Sculptures, to be found this day extant at the admired Hills of Canary; where there are divers receptacles cut out of the main Rock, by incredible Industry and Charge of the Ancient Inhabitants of those Parts supposed Moors or Negroes of Ethiopia rather than Gentues; by reason of the large proportion of their usual Statures, which is at least Eight Foot in heighth, having great Lips, full Eyes, flat Nose and curled Hair, and is worthy the Observation. So far Mr. Flower Feb. 3. 167 2/5. Its (873) Its probable the intent of this Paper was to compare these Characters, being very Ancient with them at Persepolis, the Gentlemen having got together (as appears) several other Alphabets that had been used in the Eastern parts of the World. The places here pointed at, are chiefly three, two upon the Island Salsete, and one upon the Island Pory, called the Pagode of Olifant of such a bigness that one of them is described by Linschoten to be equal to a Village of 400 Houses, to consist of Four Ranges of Building one over another within the Mountain; and to contain no less then 300 Rooms or Habitations; adorned throughout with strange frightful Statues, of Idols, of Lyons, Tigers, Elephants, Amazons, and a hundred other things so well designed,that Andrea Corsali in the Year 1515 had a mind to send some of them to Julian de Medices for their Curiosity, who were the Architects is very uncertain. Balbi names the Romans and Alexander the Great, others the Chineses, Mr. Flower the Abessins who have some few Churches cut in the Rocks; but Alvarez who saw them twice, says the Country affirms they were made by AEgyptians or other white Men; but though their beginning be obscure, their end may more easily be declared, for the Portugueses upon the building of Goa began to destroy them, and have continued to do so ever since. VII. A 