An Account of a Book presented to the Royal Society, and intituled, Notitia Hungariae novae Historico-Geographica, &c. Auctore Matth. Belio. By the Reverend Zachary Pearce, D. D. F. R. S. &c. T H E Author of this Work is the Reverend Matthias Bell, a Pastor among the Lutherans at Presburg in Hungary. About twelve Years ago he publish'd an Account of what he intended to execute; and by the Encouragement of his present Imperial Majesty, and some of the Nobility, he went on [399] on with it, notwithstanding many Difficulties, which (as he tells us) he met with in the Undertaking, and publish'd the first Volume last Year. This first Volume is to be follow'd by several others; for the Kingdom of Hungary includes 48 Districts or Counties, and this Volume gives an Account of only one of them, and indeed is chiefly taken up with the History of the City of Presburg (or Pisonium, as he calls it); which, though inferior in other respects to the City Buda, is the Place where the Emperors (as Kings of Hungary) are crown'd, where the States of the Kingdom assemble, and the Courts of Justice are held. This Volume consists of two Parts. The First is general, and gives an Account of the physical and political State of the whole District or Country of Pisonium, describing its Soil, Produce, Rivers, the Temperature of its Air, the Nature of its Inhabitants; its antient Inhabitants and present ones, its Nobility, Magistrates, and whatsoever belongs to the natural and political History of the District. The second Part (which is much the largest) is taken up with the Description of the City Presburg; where the Author is very copious and elaborate in setting forth every thing that relates to it: Particularly its antient State under the several Nations who possess'd it, and its present State under the Austrian Family; all its Privileges and Prerogatives, especially of the Inauguration of their Kings, which he describes in all its Parts, even to a most minute Exactness. He then enters into a Detail of the present State of the City, its Churches, and other public Buildings, its Magistrates, Islands adjoining, and the Country F f f ronnd [400] round about its Walls; leaving to the next Volume the Description of the four other Cities or principal Towns, which are situated in the same District. The Work is printed after a most beautiful and expensive manner, with all the Ornaments of Engravings that may set it off to the best Advantage. There are two different Prospects of the City Presburg, and a Map of the whole District, which seems to be very accurately taken, and is made by Samuel Mikovinius, a noble Hungarian, and Member of the Royal Society of Berlin. Every other District is to have a Map of it plac'd before the Description of it: And the Maps are made in an Astronomico-Geometrical Method, upon a careful Survey of each District; for which laborious Work the States of the Kingdom of Hungary, by Order of the Emperor, were pleas'd to give him all manner of Encouragement and Assistance: As they have likewise to Mr. Matthias Bell, the Author of the Description, to which the Maps are prefix'd. Upon the whole, should this Author live long enough (if any Life be long enough) for the finishing of so very extensive a Design, the Libraries of the Learned will receive a great Addition, which may not only gratify their Curiosity, but afford Matter of Improvement in the History of Hungary. XV. A 