(382) X. A Copy of a Letter from R. P. Vicar of Kildwick in Yorkshire, to a Friend of his in those Parts, wherein he gives an Account of an Extraordinary Eruption of Water, which happened in June, 1686. Worchy Sir, I Have now drawn a full, though short, Account of the great Loss sustained by the Inhabitants of Kettlewell and Starbotton, in Craven, in the County of York; by a sudden overflow of Water. The Towns are situate under a great Hill on the East and West; the Country is very mountainous aud Rocky. The Descent of the Rain was after a Thunder-Clap, for the Continuance of about an Hour and half, with extraordinary Violence, and by several Eye-witnesses, the Rock on the East side opened visibly, and Water they beheld thence into the Air, the height of an ordinary ChurchSteeple; so that the Current of Water came down the Hill into the respective Towns, as in one entire Body, and with a Breast as if it would have drowned the whole Towns. Several Houses were quite demolished, and not a Stone left; others gravel'd to the Chamber-Windows; some Inhabitants driven, until this Day, from their Habitations, the Current of the Water running through their Houses; mighty Rocks descended from the Mountains into the Valley, and there lie immovable; many fair Meadows cover'd with Sand and Stones, that the Worth of the Soil will not regain the same. Housholdgoods taken away into the great River of Wharfe, and so (383) so lost; besides many quick Goods. The loss reputed to be many Thousand Pounds. Many Families quite ruined; others in part only. Such an Instance hath not been heard of within Memory, considering all Circumstances. Much more might be said; but, in short, this may satisfy as an intelligible Account of what you requested from, Y O U R F R I E N D, R. P. Since the first Flood that I have related, there have been Two others, though not so great and dangerous: For the Towns have either of them a great Beck (as we call it) or Current of Water runing through them, which by the first Flood were gravel'd up; so that the Passage is much altered, and cannot be regained; though there have been many Hundreds of Men set to do it, and Hundreds of a Day. XI. Some 