IV. A Letter from Mr. Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. to Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. President of the College of Physicians, and Vice-Pres. R. S. concerning the Effects of a violent Shower of Rain in Yorkshire. T H E Effects of a violent Shower of Rain at Riponden, near Halifax, were so surprizing, that I wrote to a Gentleman in those Parts for an Account that might be depended upon; and particularly desired to know, whether there was not an Eruption of T Waters (102) Waters out of the Hills, as the late ingenious Mr. Townley of Townley wrote me there was out of Pendle-Hill, in that at Star-bottom mentioned in the Philos. Trans. No 245. but all the Account I can learn of this is, that what they call the Dashing of two great watery Clouds upon the Hills, occasioned the Inundation; what ever was the more immediate Cause, the Effects were dismal, and so sudden, that tho' it was upon the Daytime, the poor Creatures could not save their Lives. This Calamity happen'd the 18th of May, 1722. betwixt the Hours of 3 and 5, when by the modestest Account the Beck was rais'd two Yards at least in perpendicular Height above what was ever known before; which may be easily conceived by the Situation of the Place implied in the Termination den, which signifies a deep Valley between pretty steep Hills on each Side. Fontes in convallibus, is in the Saxon Version rendered ~ on ~ Ps. ciij. 2. and Valley of Tears, (as this now) Ps. lxxxiij. 6. ~ ~. Several Houses, four Mills, (some say six) nine Stone-Bridges, and ten or eleven of Wood, are taken down, and the Wheels, Dams, and Sluices, (Eboracentibus Goits, from the verbal Noun ~ fundere) of most of the Mills that are left standing, broken and damaged; and a great deal of Cloth gone. Fifteen Persons were drown'd, of whom Jonas Longbothom and his Servant are not yet found. Seven out of eight in one House were either slain by the Fall of it, or drowned. A young Man escaped by help of a piece of Timber, was turned over and over again, in passing two or three Dams, but at last taken out alive, tho' distracted for the present; but it's hoped he may recover. The Rapidness of the Torrent was so violent, that it took down the North-side of Ripponden Chapel, and carried off most of the Seats. A Man of Deusbury told (103) told me, that he saw four of them that were driven to that Town; and the Rector of Castleford, who visited me the Day after, inform'd me, that many Goods were carried down so far, tho' above 20 Miles off. It tore up the Dead out of their Graves; at first I was willing to believe it only of an old Woman that had been buried that Afternoon, and so the Earth not fully settled again; but am since informed by a sure hand, that two corrupted Corpses were driven upon one Gentleman's Land, and as many upon another's. It swept away all the Corn-Land, as deep as the Plow had gone. Some Persons sav'd themselves by forcing a Way out of the Roofs of their Houses, and sitting upon the Ridges till the Floods abated. I was that Day seized by a smart Thunder-Shower, upon the Moor, as I was coming home. Leeds, June 5. 1722. 