VII. Descriptzon of Kilburn Wells, and Azaal3tsi3 of tbeir Wterv By Ilir. Joh. Ctodfr. Schtneissere Communicated by Sir 3eseph Banks Bart. P. R. S. Read February 28, oge. 1 HQSE wells lieto the right of the Edgeware Reads about t>to /miles froln London, in a dry) but verdaIlt) and gelltly * * 1 rlslng meaaow. They spring about 12 feet below the surface and are eovered with a small stone cupola The diarneter of the Brell near the surface of the water is about five feet ; the depth of the nrater was irl July and Au gust two feet; this its general deptll increases in wzinter, at times, to three feet; the changes in the atmosphere cto not appear to affiect eitherthe quatitity or quality of the water. lshis mineral water is not perfectly bright, but of rather a milky hue; it has a mild and bitterish taste, with little or no briskness, as containitlg a very stuall proportion of fixed air On dipping for the water, or otherwise agitating it, a sulphareous stneli is perceived near the surEace ; whtch, however, soon goes off in a ternperature of about So degrees of FAHRENEIEITES thermolmeter wbicb I bave ased througbout. The specific gravity of the Kilburn water is to distilled water as ,oo71 : 1,oooo ; its generai temperature G30, which was rlot aSected by a change of lo degrees in the temperature of 52 2 ME. SCHMBISSER s AnaZy3is oftlle atmospllere. Whlle the water cvntinues at restX no-bullition of Exed air is perceived, alld scarkee any sulphureous smelle That this mineral water so easily parts with the hepatic air (perceivable on agitatitlg it) if it be shaken in a warmer te:m perattire or tralNlsported froul one place to another, is probably owing to the fixed air svhich it contains: for as this aerial acid has a great affinity to phlogiston ; so it m-ay hence he itlferred that fixedv and hepatic air cannot exist together in a mineral water, but that the latter will be destroyedJ as the Sxed air is developed by gentle warmth Cbeynical Experimentse Examlnation Qf tbe Kilburn AYaters by reagent Substances E XPERI MENT I . The tincture of litmus is a very little affected by the water fresh from the spring? and not at all after having been boiled > which proves that this svater contains very little aerial acidJ EXPE,R I MENT I 1$ Paper stained with a decoction of logwoods is someurhat challged, to rather a bluish hue, by fresh water; from this I infer, that the svater contains a little absorbent earth dissolved . * 1 * ll1 aerlal acld. EXPERI MENT 111 * Paper stained with talrtneric is not changed by this svater; which s^7ould happen if it contained any uncombined alkaline 8alto the Water of Kilburn Wells.E:SPERIMENT -IV . ()n adding 4,2 droles; of-the purest concentrated vitrtiolic acicl to two pourlds of the Kilburn water) it became periectly clear and some air was disengaged; this air rendered litne-Nvater turbid. EXPERIMENT.^ A fesY drops of pure and nitrous acid were dropped into a tutnbler fiull ofs the water; the stnell of hepatic air was diminished, arld hardly any precipitate fortned. From this experiment it becomes probables that the water contains no liver of sulphur, but only hepatic air o frotn tlle appear ances on adding the vitriolic acid, maynbe inferred, that this water contains little calcareous earth and no terrcz ponderos* EXPERIMENT Y In order to ascertain whethex the hepatic air really existed in tlle utaters or vvhether the appearances which made tllis pro bable might not arise from the air of lnarshes, which will occasionally imitate the other, I filled three Iquart bottles with distilled waters and nearly emptied them just over and alS most in contact with the spring The air, which of course took the place of the a ater I had emptied, was subjected to the following experinletlts: (a)-A piece of white arsenic beitlg immersed in it, its sllrface soon became yellow. (b) A solation of flead being put illtO one of these bottlesa the precipitate which was formed soon became of a blackish brown coloure (c) A solution of silver beitlg put ilatO the t;hird bottle) the precipitate fortned was blackish. All these are proofs o:f the existence of the hepatic air. Mr. ScuB:Exs$ER S 4naZysls ofEXPERIMENT V [. On addig a fevv dropsj both of the aqueous and spirituous infusioIl of galIs, to a glass of the fresh water, no change of colour took place ; yet by mearls of M ell saturated phlogisti cated alkali some traces of iron were perceiared. EXPERIMENT V I I . A solution of soap ill spirit of vine being dropped into tlle water, vjas immediately decomposed by it. This proves it to contain laeutral saltsg EXPERIM-ENT VI:II. By addixag some acid of sugar both to the fresh and the boiled Kilburn water, calcareous eartHh was pre-cipitated ; wllich shows that this water ccontains aerated calcare-ous earth-, and selen;te. EXPE-RIA{EN T I X . By adding aerated volatile alkali, magnesia and calcareous earth were precipitated both from the fresh and the boiled watert EXPERIMENT X. Caustic volatile alkali precipitated both magnesia alld calcareous earth from the fresh water; a proof of its containing these earths in a state of combination wlth tTle aerial and other acids. EXPERI MENT X I . Caustic fixed alkali precipitated fronl the fresh water aerated magrlesia. (It is to be observed with regard to this X ttt rb tt tYe 1 the tczter oy s1 * urn we 1Sgexperiment, that the precipitate should be separatzed as $0011 AS formed ; otherwise, if there he iron contaitled} thatwvvill 1SQ be prec;pitated together with calcareous earth). EXPERIMENT XII. Qn dropping muriated Ierra ponderosal into the fresll waters the earth is precipitated; svhich also happensf but in a less degree if the water has been boiled; this proYes it to contain itriolated soda and luagnesia, the other seleniteX . To ascertain the quantity of vitriolic acid contained itl these salts as much pure acetous acid >as first added to otle pound of the water, as was required to saturate the earth. Then a so lution of terrv ponderosa in nitrous acid was carefillly dropped into the tnixtures till no more precipitate was formed; the -thus regenerated spar was carefullycollecteds edulcorated and drieds when it weighed 60 grains Now if loo grains of ponderous spar contain ex grains of vitriolic acidn it will fbllo\v7 that one pound of the Kilburn water contains about wS grains ofthis acid EXPERIMENT XI II . Vitriolated silver xras dissolved, and acltded to the Kilburn water, previously impregnated with pure lz-itrous acid, to eSect a solution of the earthy particles contained in itv The silver combined with the muriatic acid in the svater, and formed a luna cornev: but I do not estimate the (3uantity of the acid irl the water from this experiment, which is liable to deceisre as vell as the preceding Wthis will appear on coznparing the result with the real quantity of vitriolic acid as given ill the contents of the ^rater aIlnexed to these experiinentsX 1l{r. SCMEl$SE@S Analysas fQEXPERINtENT X IV. A quantity of the Kilburtl water having beell gently eva porated to dryness, a powder retnained; some of this being trittlrated with 07egetable alkaliX there stas no smell of volatile alkali percoived. EXPE R I MENT XY . A little of the powder having beerl luixed writh tartar, alld thrown into a fred hot crucible, no detonationS happened ; of course nitre wsas not orle of the collstituent parts. EXPER I MENT XVI . \ . . Onmoistening a little of the powder with pure and concentrated ritriolic acidg there arose muriatic vapours ; a proof there were no salts formed vsrith the nitrous acid existirlg in this srater. The Kilburn water therefore contains fxed air, hepatic air, earthy nqutral salts, vitriolated and inuriated neutral salts, cal careous earth, magnesia, selenite? and a very little iron. These component parts of this tnineral water appeared on the addition of reacting substances; anfd with this guide I proceed to the analysis. I beg, howevern first to mention another experiment or two, relatifire to the effiects of thisEwater Two quarts of the fresh drawn water having been successively drank, operated gently downwards, but at the same time affected the head a little. This Cspecies ef intoxication was, hovvever, not produced, if the water had been freed from its hepatic air The Gelerity of the pulse was but little increased by it; yet the following experiment will prove that it }ervaded the whole systetun atld affiord a v:ery strong argumerlt in favour of its the tYater og Kilburn Wells. 2r eflicacy. A small plate of silver was placed ullder the arm, it cotltact svith the skin and thus worn for some hours without being tarnished by the perspirable tnatter ; a bottle of the Kil burn water having now been drank, in less thall half an hour the silver was become hlack. One ourlce of fresh gall wras mixed with a quart of tlle svater + as it came from the spring, and into another bottle was put the same quantity of gall, with a quart of distilled vvwater, and 1ooth were place(l in a rarmth of 96oX After ten hours the latter mixture began to show signs of putrefaction, vvhile that witll the Kilburn water continued perfectly sswreet. Twelve hours aRer, this also became putrid. Two-ouIlces of very putrid gall wJere mixed with a quart of Kilburn water, and placed in the same warmth. The fttor was soon diminished, and after three hours no longer percep tible. Two ounces of putrid gall were mixed with two ounces of distilled waters in whicll 24 graills of the saline mass obtairlecl by evaporation from the Kilburn water had been previously dissolved; -and this mixture svas likewise placed in a *varmth eqalaI to 960. iNfter e.;2 hours the offensive smell had gone completely off: Similar experiments were made with blood and the results were the same. E3rperiments to ascertolirl the Properties and Pr.opartion of the Elastic Fluids contained in tbe Kilburn AVater. The apparatus with 51Yhich these experiments were instituted contained 16 cubic inches: the -cylinder for the reception of the extracted air, eight cubic inches. Illto the Jar were put + MDCCVI-I * R 1gs Mr. SCHMEISSER s Xnalysis of cubic irlche$ o:f the fresh drasvn water 3 and having been immo diately contlected with the apparatusn it was placed in a lamp filrnace. The heat having been gradually increased till the water began to boil, six cubic inches of the quicksilver, witlh which the cylinder had leen previously filled, were displaced by the air which calue over. This V}SS@1 having heen artificially cooled to $o, the air was contracted one-fourth of an irlch Now, if the two cublc inches of atmospheric air, left in the jar be deducted, there remain 34 cubic inches of air expelled from o4 inches of the water. Byagitation in lime-Xvater 24 cubic inches ere absorbed, the precipitated aerated litne weighed 2 8 grains. The remaining gas was found to be hepatic air. Experiments to ascertazn thefixed constituent Parts of tb@ Kilburn AYaterg and their Properties. EXPER I MENT l . Twerlty fotlrpounds of water (at 16 ounces) were errapo rated in one of the Wedgwood basonsX by a gentle heat, down to four ounces; this residuum was then reduced to perfEct dryness ln a small glass vessel. lnhe mass thus obtained M7as scaly, with crystals intermixed, and of a yellowish hue; its taste was bitter, alld but little sharp; the weight lgoo grains (which were equal to rS60 grains of the further used accurate weight), which divided by 24 gives for every pound of the water 79 grairls of sclid lnatter The bason in which the first evaporation had been made, w-as leinced with a little aqua regia, that such earthy par-ticles as might have adhered to it sIlould not lbe lost; this solution svas put aside and lnarked AS the AYater of Kilburll WelIseE XPER I ME,NT I I . The dry residuum obtained as above was rubbed with a little aIcohol, and a stlfficiency of this spirit havillg been added, the w}oole was placed in a gentle wartllth, and often stirred with a glass tube: after a few datrs the fluid vjTas decatlted, and what remained indissoluble, having been edulcorated: with alcohol, and carefully collectedand dried itz a tnoderate warmtha was found to weigh :392 grains; so that od8 grains had been taken up by tlle alcohol. The spirituous solution was gently evaporated, When lSo grains of a yellowish, easily deliquescent salt remainedv having a bitter alld acrid taste. By adding to this oneounce of the strongest alcohel, all tlle deliquescent salts were dissolved, leavillg 40 grains of a saline substance; which having beenagain dissolved in distilled water and crystallized, was found to be common salt. The solution of the deliquescent salts havitlg been lYlixed: with 2:0 drops of pure ritriolic acid, some selenite appeare-d; the whole was now evaporated to dryness, and havirag beenf lnixed with 3 of its; weigllt ofpurevitriolic acid, it mJas exposed to a considerable heat. The vapours thusV expelled were those of the muriaticL acid. When these hacl ceased, and the masswasfcold, I again dissolved it in distilled vvater, whetl a black flaky substance was separated, which being carefully collected on filte:ritlg paper, and dried, weighed six grains ; this w<as resrou-s natter. The solution was now placed on the fire, in ordery to -evaporation,0during hich l--2 grains of selenitewereseparated-; the remainder afforded vitriolated magnesia, leaving-some-drops of a yellosvish fluid, fromhich, by the acldltiola of caustic 1R 2 Mr. SCHMEISSER S Analysis of124volatile alkali, a very small quantity of calx of iron was precipitated, whicll, when dry, weighed about 8 °f a grain. It appears, from the above experiments, that the spirituous solutionheld of : Muriated soda 40 grains. magtlesia : 128 grairls. calcareous earth 6 graitls. Resinous matter 6 grainse Calx of iron 8 grain. EXPERIMENT I I I . The reslduum of the second experiment, rhich was not soluble in alcohol, was digested with distilledater, and often stirred. The svater took up 1204 grainsO lthis solutioll was filtered, the residuum often edulcorated and dried; this weighed s88 grains. The solution was evaporated in a gentle warluth to one third, alad being thetl set in a cold place, og grains of selenite were separated. Having further evaporated the remainirlg solution, I now mixed-it svith double its weight of alcohol, and after having agaitl heated tllis mixture, * I let it cool gradually; thus all the vitriolic salts were separated. I; -again dissolved this saline mass in distilled vv-ater, and, after gentle evaporation, obtained crystals, weighing altogetherK 1200 grains, and consisting of vitriolated tartar, and vitriolated soda: from the remaining ley I obtained, on further e^7aporation, 10 grains more of common salt. There were no traces of an uncombined alkali, which must othervwrise have novv shewlw itself. The 1200 grains of mixed salts, which had crystallized first, were again dissolved ill water,-and this solution made to boil ;a hot solution of lnirleral alkali was now mixed the Water of Kilburn \VeIls.-12swith it, and the magnesia thus separated weighed, when wash:ed and dried, J.7O grains: this havillg been again saturated with diluted vitriolic acid, affiorded gto graills of pure crystallized vitriolated rllagrlesia. The solution retnaining after the separation of the magnesia having been duly evaporated, yielded 282 grains of crystallized GLAUBER salts, exclusive of what llad been formed byr the above-rnentioned admixture of the natroll. EXPERIMENT IV. The 188 grains of remaining-:earth, mentioned in the preceding experiment, vitere put into aqua rzgia, :and the solution mentioned in the first experiment, as marked (A), was added. This mixture having been well lleated; and again suffiered to cool, was put on some filtering paper;: and: what rernained on this, haviilg beell well waslled with diluted spirit of wine, and dried, weighed 1 12 grains. lthe filtered solution was then getatly evaporated,(luring vvrhicll it deposited six grains of seletlite ; a sufiiciency of phlogisticated alkali was now added, to separate the irorl; 25 grains were required, and the dried blue precipitate weighed 15 grains. (It is to be observeds that the phlogisticated alkali colltained, in 2tS g;rains, 4graitas of the calx of iron. ) The above blue precipitate was put into a sall crucibles atld kept for a proper tirzle Ain a red heat, when it left 72 grains of calx of iron, vvhich was attracted by the magnet; if fronz this be deducted the e grains contained inxthe alkali, there ^7ill remaitl tElree grains xyhich had been contained in the water. >+ SCMM-BI$$RE20 WN4ZYS{$ fEXPERIMENT v v The solution, from which I had precipitated theirons was evaporated, arld nzixed with vitriolic acid, alld diluted spirit of wines nrhen yg graills of Selenite MJere separatect: tllese 72 grains of selenite having been boiled uZith mineral alkali yielded 24, grains of calcareous earthe EXPER I MENT v I, Tlle rertlainder of the solutiorl frorz whicTl the calcareous earth had, by means of thevitriolic acid, been separated in the forn of seleniteg yielded lzJ,r adding mineral alkali 72 I grains --more of magnesiae A11 the selenite; obtained wa.s boiled in oo times its-weight of rater, irz which it W0a$ completely dissolved5 no siTiceous earthf being leffi As a proof that the proces$ had beetl prQefly conducted I $atura-ted both the obtfained earths; with diluted vitriolic acid ; svhen the first again affblded selerlitet md the other ritriolated. . mSnesia. the SYater of 0Kilburn WellsSummary of the constituent parts of the Kilburll Water in 24 Pounds.Fixed air Hepatic air nea V;triolated magnesia Vitriolated natron Muriated natron Selenite -Muriated tnagnesja calcareous earth Aerated magnesia calcareous earth * -Calx of iron Zeslnous matter -84 cubic inches r g6 glo grains, equal to gij 3iiss? Apothecary's ureight.282 gr. 60 gr. ogo gr. 8 gr. 6 gr, 12gr. 24 gr. 38 gr. 6 gr3v. lij grairls = 75 gr. * 1 tX _ 3 1J X1lJ grv = 3ij xl gr. 72 gr 1S gr go gr e _ A fLX bii = 7r grSi]t 156158 grains, equal to medicinal weight 4, ourcesj o dramss and e grairls 