The third Paper of the same person, concerning Thunder and Lightning being from the Pyrites. THere are two sorts of Instances (besides the Arguments I formerly urged, which to me are alone sufficiently [518] ciently convincing) which very much favour the opinion I lately offered. That Thunder and Lightning owe their matter from the sole breath of the Pyrites: And although I am as loath, and as backward as any man to give credit to such Instances, which seem rather prodigies, then the Phaenomena of nature; yet because they often occur in History, it is at least fitting to bring them under further enquiry and examination, that if they can be confuted as false, so much may be done for Posterity; and that we at least may not leave upon our Registers, matters of fact not true, if they can be fairely set aside. The first sort of them are those which tell us of Iron to have fallen in great masses, and also in powder after the manner of rain, out of the Air. In a part Italy it rained Iron in such a year, and in Germany a great body of Iron-stone fell at such a time; the li'e Avicenn affirms. Iulius Scaliger say's he had by him a piece of Iron, which was rained in Savoy, where it fell in diverse places. Cardan reports 1200 stones to have faln from Heaven, and one of them weighed 120 l. some of them 30 l. some 40 l. very hard, and of the colour of Iron. Now that which is very remarkable (says Gilbert where those instances are reckoned up,) and a very probable argument for the truth of such li e instances, is, that it is no where recorded, that it ever rained Gold or Silver Ore, or Tin or Lead; but Copper hath been also said to have faln from the Clouds. (And here I must note by the By, that wherever the Pyrites is mentioned by the Antients, it is always to be understood of the Copper Pyrites; they scarce having had any knowledge of the Iron Pyrites) And therefore the raining of Copper makes it yet more probable, because of its great Affinity with Iron (I which I shall have occasion some other time to discourse of.) Now this Ferrum or aes Nubegnum, if there was ever any [519] ny such, was concreted of the breath of the Pyrites, which we have elsewhere shewn to be the Pyrites ex tota substantia. The other instance, which I say is owing to our Registers, is of Lightning being Magnetick. For this see the Philosophical Transactions of Mr. Oldenburg Number 127. This I am sure of, I have a petrified piece of Ash, which is Magnetick; that is, the Pyrites in Succo; which makes it probable it may be Magnetick also in vapour. M 