(224) I. An Extract of a Letter from Mr. Robert Vans of Kilkenny in Ireland. Dated Nov. 15. 1695. to Mr. Henry Million. WE have had of late, in the County of Limerick, and Tipperary, Showers of a sort of Matter like Butter or Grease: If one rub it upon ones Hand it will melt, but lay it by the Fire, and it dries and grows hard, having a very stinking Smell. And this last Night some fell at this place, which I did see my self this Morning. It is gathered into Pots and other Vessels, by some of the Inhabitants of this Place. Extract from the Bishop of Cloyne's Letter, near Youghall, April 2d. 1696. S I R, I Think my self obliged by the Duty I owe your self and the Royal Society, to furnish such Accounts of Natural History, as I suppose are not common. Accordingly having very diligently inquired concerning a very odd Phaenomenon, which was observed in many Parts of Munster and Leinster, the best Account I can Collect thereof, is as follows: For a good part of last Winter and Spring, there fell in several places, a kind of thick Dew, which the Country People called Butter, from the Consistency and Colour of it, being soft, clammy, and of a dark Yellow; it fell always in the Night, and chiefly in Moorish low Grounds, on the (224) the top of the Grass, and often on the thatch of Cabbins: 'twas seldom observ'd in the same Places twice; it commonly lay on the Earth for near a Fortnight without changing its Colour, but then dryed and turn'd black. Cattle fed in the Fields where it lay indifferently, as in other Fields. It fell in lumps, often as big as the end of ones Finger, very thin and scatteringly; it had a strong ill Scent, somewhat like the smell of Church-yards or Graves: And indeed we had during most of that Season very stinking Fogs, some Sediment of which might possibly occasion this stinking Dew, tho' I will by no means pretend to offer that a reason of it: I cannot find that it was kept long, or that it bred any Worms or Insects; yet the superstitious Country People, who had Scal'd or Sore Heads, rub'd them with this Substance, and said, it healed them. I am likewise inform'd of a Person in my Neighbourhood, who had a regular Epileptick Fit, at a certain Hour every Day; I have not yet seen or discoursed with him, but when I am furnished with a just and faithful Account of this Case, I will not fail to Communicate it. II. A 