II. Account of a new Pendulum. By George Fordyce, M 1:?* F. R. S.; begng the Bakerian Lecture. Read November 7 o79g. LET AB and C:D be two rods of any solid of the same species, and of a simple or uniform texture. Let these two rods be exactly of the same length c let them be connected at the top Wit}l a rod BC, which is perfectly inflexible let the angles ABC, and DCBs be both right angles so that AB and DC shall be parallel to each othery and in the same plane let the rod AB be fixed at the point A, and perpendlcular to the hori zon: then the rod CD shall likewise be l?erpendicular to it . . . excepting br the curvature of the earth between B and C, which ln a foot or two may ibe c.onsidered: as nothing: let the rod CD be loose at the end Dn so as to be capable of ris-ng up or falling down7 in this case, if heat be applieFd equally tot both rods scz as to expand tllem both, and lengthen thCem, the rod AB will raise up tlleDrod; ENC aWnd lifi; up the-rod DU; but the rod DC being equally lffllgthened by heat with th-e rod BA, the poirst D will be brought downsvards by the lerlgthen ing of the rod DC, as much as the point C is raisedF by tAhe lengthening of the rod AB btr the heat. In consequenceS the rod DC will have its end D in a lineexactly parallel to the horizorl, and cut-ting the end of the rod AB at A, as it did before the heat was applied; and the same thing will betrlle if the lDr. FORDECEJS Account of a nezo Penduluzs<Smds AB, DC, be shortelled by exposure to cold 9 ^so that ill all cases of heat or cold the end of the rod C:D at D, and the etld of the rod 13A at A, shall be in a; line parallel to the horizon. Take a point E near any part of the rod CD, and let that point E be connected with the point A where the end A of the rod AB is fixed, and let the matter whi( h unites thetn be perfectly inflexible, and incapable of being altered by heat then, I say that the part of tlle rod CD intercepted at; the point E, axldforming ED, will always beXof the sam-e length whether the temperature of heat is greater or less For stlpposing a point F be taken near the rod AB, and of the same perpendicular height with E, so that a line drawn from E to F shall be parallel to the horizon ; if > the part of the rod ABy czpposite to F, should rise up in consequence of being expanded by heat above F5 it will carry up the point of the rod DC, mIhich was opposite to E, to: an equal height vzFith itself, and therefore would cut off from the length-of that part of the rod which was formerly opposite to E, a length eq-ual to-that which was added to whEat was formerly ED by the heat. Therefore the point opposite to E, in the rod DCD, will form EDX which will always continue of the same lengthS if thexheat be increased; and vby-similaEt reasoning, it will likewise continu-e of the same length if the part of the rod A13 AF is shortened by cold S therefore the part of the rod DC cut off by the point EJ so as to form ED, will always be of an equal length, and the point D will always be of an equal heigh.t. At the point E let there be arl appar-atus which will render that part of the rod DC which is -opposite to the poillt E flexible, wha-tever part of it shall be opposite to the point E. Then the part of the rod DCn cut offat the point E and formeB2 Dr. FORDYCE S Accounting D-E, may be-come a pendulum. Thus we shall procure a . . . pendulum of the same length, whatever be the degree of heat.Let the rodi AB and the rocl DC be of different species of matter, so that the rod AB shall be lengthened by being heated to the same degree, more than the rod DC; then if they be both of the same length, heat would carryup the erld of the rod CD at D, hi«er than the fixed point A ;but if a part be cut of from AB at -G, so that the whole of the expansion of the remaining part GB shall be equal to the whole of the expansion of the whole rod DC, and that irl every inerease of heat, then the same thing would happen; and the part of the rod DC, cut offby the apparatus at E, would always remairl of the same length. If, therefore, it is wished to render DE always equal in length, the fixed point A must be brought nearer to B7 so as to shorten the rod AB, that is at G, so that the whole of the expansion -of GB by heat, shall be equal to the whole of the expansion of DC by the same degree of heat. Hitherto:I harre supposed that the substance whi-ch connected the points A and E was incapable of being expanded or contracted by heat: but no such substance is to be found. I shall now auppose that the substance which connects the points A and E is capable of being expanded byE heat. If it was capable of expansion equal to the matter of svhich the rods AB and CDtconsist, then it xs evident that no advantage could be gained so as to rezlder the part of the rod CD opposite to the point E down to D always equal. But it is clear that the expa-nsion of AE, supposing the point A a fixed one, would carry the point E higher up towards C, if the heat was greater, so that EDt would by this means be renclered longer; and the contraction of AE, when exposed to a greater of a new PeaQdfulum.degree of cold, would brin$ down the point E so as to render ED shorter, just as much as the expansion of AB would raise up the rod ED, or as its contraction lower it. But if the materials connecting the points A < and E were less expansile and contractile by heat and cold, than the matter of the rods AB and CD, then upon the-whole expanding although the point E would be raised higher towards C; yet it would not be raised so high as the expansion of AB would raise the point C, and the whole rod CD. The sameL is tru-e if the whole of them corltract, but in an opposites direction. That is to say, the pointiE would not descend so far towardfs D, as the point C would descend towards D, andwith it the wholewrod CD w by this means although the part ED would not be always equal, yet it will be much more equal than if the point C were a fisedgpoint, and not capable of being affiected with the contraction or expansion of the rod AB. -If then the part of the frod CDa from opposite to the point E to D was a perldulum, it would not be always of the same length, but it would be more nearly so than a simple pendulum made of the same materials of which the rod CD consists,, and it would be nearly of the sarne length as if Sthe penduhxm had been made of the materials which connect A and E. In order then to render ED always of an equal length, some other principle must be employed. Now let BA ancS CD consist-of the same materials-; and the matter connecting A and E consist of a substance that expands by heat, and corltracts fiby coldS less than the materials of which AB and CD are formed, -if the rod AB be-brought down to H, and the fixed pointbe at H, and the points HE be connected; together by the same materials which formerly connected the points AFX Dr. FORDYCE'S Sccogn!6'in the rodt EH, take a point X, equal in height with the points A D, and in the line AD which is parallel to the horizon, as it has already been taken-in the construction; then the rod AH shall expand,upon being heated, in perpendicular height more than the rod HK, and therefore the expansion of AH shall carry the poi:nt B, gand in consequence the point C, higher than the expansion of the rod HK shall carry the point E0; but if the expansion of the rod AH be as great as the expansiotl of the whole rod HE, then the poirlt C will be carried as lnuch higher thall the point E, as the point E is carried higlaer than it was before the heat was ap-plied, and therefore the point E shall be at as great a distance from the point C, as it would have been if the materials connecting AE had been . incapable of being altered by heat: and therefore if EI) be a petldulum, it will be rendered of the same length. If then the rods AB, and CD, be of the same materials, and the substance connecting A and E is capable of expandirlg and contracting less by heat than the matter of the rods AB and CD, then, by adding to the rod AB,+ a part AH, under the circum-> stances already described, and making the fixed point at H, we can obtain a pendulum always of equal length ; or if the materials of whi-ch the rodHAB collsists be capable of being expallded by-heat as -much as tlle materials of which CD consists, together wit-h tlle expansion of the materials that connect A and ES in that case likewise the point C shall be carried as much higher than the point E, as it would be when they are expanded by heat, as if the materials connecting A and E had not been affiected by heat at all 0r, lSastly, if we take a rod GB7 of materials which expand much more than the expansion of the matter of the rod CD, and the 'connecting matter of a new Pend..ulum.7of tlle rod EG by heat, then likewise upon the rod GB expanding it *vill carry the point B, and consequently the pointA C, as much higher than t}ze point E? as it would have been if the rnaterials conlaecting G and E-had been incapable of being; expanded by heat, and therefore ED will always continue of the same length. The same reasoning will hold in cases o£ contractiorl from cold. Therefore, if materials be employed in the rod GB, which contract considerably more than. those which compose .the rod.. CD, then the fixed point G is to be taken at a distance frotru4 B, in an inverse ratio to the inferior expansile povrer o-f the-materials of wl}icli the rod .CD consists, and in a direct ratio; of the expa.nsi.le power of the. materials wllich connect E andM G. That is, supposing tha.t it was taken in the inverse ratio of theinferior e-xpansilepower of CD, then it would be at G ,. but to counteract the eexpansile pourwer of the materials GE, it must be sornesvhat lowerat I. If then thej proportion of the exparsion of the materials dfs the rod AB, or GB, the rod GD and thez m-aterials which con nected AE or G1£ were known, and the length of a pendulumswE i:ngingt any proportion of -timeS in that case the distanceand perpendicular height between GE andO IE: might be taken at oncej and a pendulum might be always made which would always b-e of-the same length, therefore swing equal arches in equals tim-e$.But these not being perfectly known, and it bes rlg extremely difficult, if not impossible7 to measure oWlength perfectly; it is necessary to^have-the power-ofvarfngthe dist-ancesand perpndicular height between I and E, A and E, or H and E,--so that it maybe tound from trial whether these; fixed points I, Ay or X, btproperly taken. For ifS on.construcxt Drc FORDYCE S Accoanting a pendulunn on: these principles either of the fixed points, according to the circumstances, I A or H be placed too high or too lowf then the pendulim will vary in tsle>ngth, and of consequence swing different times in different degrees of heat That is to sayn suppose the case be taken mrhere the rod BG is made of lnaterials which exparld more than CD if in stead of relldering I the fixed pOillt, it iS made G, nearer to B then the point C will not be raised suffi-ciently above the point E, the pendulum will become longer by heat, and malie fewer vibrations in a givela time. But if the fixed point in this case be brought lonver than I to the point , then the point C will be raised higher when the whole is expanded by heat from the point ES ED will be rendered shorter, more vibrations will be performed in a given time, and e boStrai Therefore if there be a power in the apparatus of alterlng the fixed point I, if found too high or too low by experirnent, -we shall be able to find out a true point, and make an adjustment aconrdingly. That is,-if heat occasions a pendulum to make fewer vibrations the fixed point is too high r if, on theecontrary, it makes too many vibrations, then the fixed point will be too low. I GOllle now to show how these princples may be applied in structlre As it is more convenient in practice to have the fixed point higher than A, which is equal in height to D the bottom of the pendulum, a substance should be thosen for the rod AB which expands and contracts more by heat and cold than the matter of which the rod GD consists so that the fixed point should be at -G if the-materials connecting A and E were illcapable of being expanded or contracted by heat or cid: of a new Pendalluez. ,r >but if their expan$ion and contraction is to be cotnperlsated for, the fixed point will be at I, as h;as already been shewn. . . If the expansion arld contractiorz of the rod IB by heat and cold, in proportion to the expansion and contraction of CD were knowrl, and the expansion and contraction in perpendicular height of IE, then the length IF; should be to the length DC, as the contraction of the materials of CD i$ to the contraction of the ma-terials of which IB is constructedD added to the contraction in perpeladicular height of tlle materials of which IE is constructed. These lengths, in this caseo might be taken at Qnce; but it is much more collvenient to haare the power of fixing them by esperiment, after takingthem fron measure as nearly as may be Thereforen to have a mearls of raising the point I higher or lower in proportion to EDs whose ends are always to be at the same distal-X+ from one another, fig. . represents tlle means of altering the point I in proportion in height to E. lthe frame AAAX is fixed to the substance which connects the point-s I and E by any Ineans. In the clock which I have constructeds the material which connects I and E is wood, as will be described afterxvards. The frame is brass; it is fised to -the wwd by the screws B B and two other opposite orles which are hid ;11 the dravvirlg They are so fixed that the point I shall be ne-arly in the nziddle between the upper screw B7 alld the iower screw-Bf and so that the part of the frame DDD:D shall pro3ec.t backwards, and carry the patt of the frame EEER behind the frarne which forms the connection between I arld E, so as to be rparallel to it r of consequence perpendicular to the horizon. In this frarne tIlere is seen, aSt the upper part, irl the drawingn a dove-tail groove7 in whicll, on botEL sides, anvther frame MDGCXCIV. ClDr. FORD5CCE s Account-XO GGGG slides, in the same manner as in that part of a transit instrument which renders one end of the asls higher or lower. This second frarne is brought higher or lower by the screw HH The rod IB, fig. , is a brass t.ube, represented by I I. 'rhere is a semicylindric cavity in the frame GGGG -of the same diameter wXth the brass tube S a piece is applied over this franie, which is likewise a semicircular cavityn forming with the other cavity a whole cylinder, equal in diameter to the tube I I. This piece is attached:.to the frame GGGG by the screws L L v when these are screwed in tightf they occasion the tube I I to be embracetl perfectly by the piece KK, and the semicylindric cavity irl the frame G, so that the screw HH could not act if the tube I I was fixedf but if the screws L L are loosened, then they would leave the frame GGGG capable of being heightened or lowered by the screw HH. Now, if I I represent the rod IB, Sg. , then if tlie centre of the screws L L be in arl horizontalline, that line will cut the point I in arl horizontal direction The centres of these scresvs, therefore, may be considered as the point I in perpendicular laeight X wherefore if the point B, fig. -, should become a fixed point, the point I may be lowered or heighterled by bringing up or carrying down the centres of the screws L L by thescrew HH. If it be wishedf therefore, ly this apparatus to raise or depress the point I, fig. o it is rlecessary during the time of altering its height by the screw HHn that B, fig. should become a fixed point; but that at all other times it should be a part perfectly free in its motion upwards or downwards. In order to fix the point B fig , in fig. g AAAA represents the frame of the clock, BB another frame fixed to this frame., alld of a new Pendgturn. 1 -projecting backwards to such a distance-as to ca:rvrzr a tabe {ised to it CC so far back and-in such directiorl, as to exactly coincide on its insido with vile cylinder formed btr the semicirem;lar cavity in the frame (;C;, fig. 2 and tlle cylindric part of the piece KK9 so-that if they were;continued theywould form the sanne cylinder when the screws L L fig. tf ale screwed hcalue. lnhis tube is made exactly to fit tlle tube I I, in the sane Inanner that the outer brass tube of a telescop¢ is fitted to the inner one. This tube CC is split operl on olle side, and is of such a . . degree of elasticity as to open when left to itself at this slit, so as to leave the tube I I entirely-free. >fo tlle frame B is fitted a piece D, which consists of two setnicylinders, connected tofgether by one being screwed to the piece B at E, the other to the frarne B at E on the other side. They are also corlnected by a part F, where they can be brougllt together orseparated by the screw G. ; Now if the screw G be undone, then the two semicylinderswill separate from one anotherf and allow the tube CC to open by its elasticity, and the tube I I to be at perfect liberty in expanding upwart1s or downwards. But if the screw G be screwed honne, then the twofsides of the piece F will embrace the tube C, and shut it upon the tube Ig so that it sllall become fixed at this point. This apparatus lmay be placed any where between B and I, fig. 1. In the clock I have con-structed, it is placed at the point F opposite to E, fig. 1. If the point I be placed then too high tlae clock will be found to go too slow if the heat be greater, too fast if it be less. If tTlis should be found the case, tllen the screw G, fig. , is to be screwecl hozne, the screws L Ln fig. 2n are to beF loosenesd, and the frame GCkGG must be screwed downward (by -the screw H, which will carry along with it the piece KK, C 2 Dr.-FORDYCEgS Accoanttherefore tlae centres of the screws L L which form the point I figs , in perpendiclllar height Then-the screws L L, fig. 2 are to be screwed home, the screw G, fig. , is to be loosenetl so as to leave the tube I I, which is the same in both figuresS perfectly free and untouched by any of the apparatus excepting at the point I, the fixed point. The same thing is to be done, only in the rearerse, if the clock be found to go too fast in a greater degree of heat, too slow in a greater degree of cold. . In the clock which I have constructed, the bar B:C, fig. is considered as inflexible If it were flexibley a weight hurxg at C would occasion it to fall lower, and in consequence bring tlle rod CI) lower, and a greater part of it below the point E; thus the pendulum would be lengthenecI. It is therefore necessary to make this rod as inflexible as possible; for this reason it is lnade of a strong brass bar HK, fig. , which is irther strengthened by a brass bar LK, supported by the upright HL. If a weight were hung at K, it would tend to draw the tube I out of the perpendiclllar towards K. To prevent thisS another bar HM is carried exactly opposite, so that M H K shall f-orm the same bar, the under surface of which is parallel to the horizon. At the erud of this bar M, is appended a weight 0, so that, supposing the line LH to be the axis of the tube I I continued, and perl)endicular to tllte horIzon, then the svhole of the weight on the side of LtI tovvards Mn shall be equal to the whole of the weight on the sid-e of LLI towards 1). P is the head of a screw, t;o the centre of whicttl t*;e rod? CD, fig. is attached; this screw passes through the end of the bar -HP, in thesame manner asi the wire sustaining th@ f a new Pendulum.weight O passes through then end of the bar HM at N. The uses of this screw are to be seen in fig. 4, where HK represent the end of the bar HK, fig. > through which the screw A passes The head of thisscrew P is tootlled and divided To the teeth there is a catch at Kwhich allows it to be turned backwards arld forwards with a tolerable force, but keeps t.t in the same place arltil thatirce be applied to it The upper part of the screw C fig. 4, is a cylinder which passes through a cy lindric hole in the end of the bar HK7 fittedzto it so as to allow of being turned round without shaking The screw stself passes through a female screw at D in the frame EF. This frame as well as the screw itself, is maade of brass, and consists of a bar EF, which is perpendicular to the horizon o frorn which arise two pieces GG and EL, at right angles therefore parallel to the horizon. I*n the upper l?iece EL is a female screw, through which the screwAv passes; so tllat the head P, being turned roundf will raise the franae EF or de. press it In the bottcom partS GF there is a. slit MMs through mrhich the rod NS passe;s rrhi-s rod }3asses through a piece of brass PP at Q where it i-s fiXeelS so tlzat by screwing forwardthe screw An ther pe jRt Q, aXiad the rod 40 consequently, will be raised up, and e contrv. The point Q is placed exactly under the centre of the screw A. This point Q is to be consid:ered as the point C, fig. 1. For-althoiigh in i.Gt the part of the rod HK wlaere the screw A passes and rests upon the end of the rod LIK be the point 6S, fig. X ; yet if a prt of the tube 1 I, fig. 33 at the poi>at C be taken at an equal height erith Qf fig + as they are toth of brasss both wilI expand eQu$7ity. If the whGle should be heatedn tl-le expansiorl of CH, fig. > will raise up the bar HK, and the es Dr FORDYCE S WCCOUSTparlsioni of: the screw AD, and the fiame EFs will c$rry dow s . . the point Q t tilat it shall always be at an equal height with tlle point Carfig * The points C and Qf fig. ga 4> therefbre l:)eing always of the same heightf may be consideredas the points B C fig. . The rod CD, fig. is steel wire, the whoIe} lerlgth o£ which srreighs; 13 grains It is watch pendulum wirt No. . Tlle point E is at R) fig. 4. SSSS fig-. 4, is the frame which connects the points I and 3En fig. 1 ; to this frame tiie square brass bar I I is firmly fixed, so as to rise perpendicular from the frame SSSS; on the sideg . VY of this bar a sernitylindric piece of crystal is attachedy so .. that the cylindrle part shall be towards Re and so that a number of lines perpendicular to the horizonS tangents to this cylind-era shall pass through the slit M3H. t . 0 1 . 1 . t wN 1S allotner square roc ^wltn a crysta semlcy lnc er a so attached to the ffame SSSS SQ as to rise perpetldicular to it, but sliding itl the dove-tail groqve XY so as tllat it is capable of being brought nearer or irther fmm the cylinder attachesl to the rod I I. This may be done by a scresv. It isiclear then fthat the wire NO will pass betwecll the cylindric parts of these two cylinders. . If the screw Y was screwed so as to make the cylinders touch one another all but the exact tllickness of the wire iN0 therl it is clear that the under part of the wire fiom V te 0* would becoune flexible at VS but then the expansion of the tube I 1> fig g would not losrer or ratse the part of the wire V0 so as to keep it always of ala equal length; but if the cylindersbwere opened the least farthers then the expansion or contraction of the turbe I Is fig 3> would raise or depress the Spart of the wire between the cylinder and render the penduof a nezu Pendulurn.lum alwazrs of the same Iength, whate^7er be the heat; and thus a pendulum may be formed, according to what has been demonstratedS always of one length. On considering the several different methods of finding a measure of lengtlls which could be alvvays and universally as-certained I am persuaded that the taking the diffierence of the length of two pendulumsf vibrating different timesS appears not only to be the most perfect, btlt the easiest attainable. EA{r. WHITEHURST contrived an apparatus for the purpose of ascertaining this difference, an account of which was read in the Royal Society, anal afterwards withdrawn and published by the author himself. After his death, I purchased this apparatus. There was no means in it whate-ver of keeping the pendulum of the same lerlgth when the heat should vary; consequently it was impossible that any accurate admeasurement of the different lengths of two pendulums keeping diffierent times could be ascertained. Mr.WHITEHuRsT, indeecI, had endeavoured to keep his pendulum of the same degree of heat, but I kraow from tnany experitllents, among which some were for-hatching eggsn how extretalely diffictllt it is to maintain the same heat in arly considerable mass, and sthat the means which may be employed to keep it within four or five degrees are almost totally inapplicable to pendulums so that lliS experiments must have been defective. : I :therefore endeavoured to contrive a rneans of rnderirtg the pendulum in his machine always of the same length:, whatever the heat might be, by some addition to Sit. I thought of the principle,-ancl formed the apparatus aboure described for this purpose. It wollld be improper :for me to repeat what has already Dr. FORDYCE S Accountbeen laid before this learned Society; therefore I shall only mentiorl briefly, that the frame of Mr. WHITEEIURST'S machine was formed o35 two piecesof very clean well seasoned deal to which was fixed the apparatus for rendering the wire flexible of 87vhich his pendulum was formed at tlle point Q, fig. 4, but there were no semicylondric pieces; the two sqllare pieces came together, so as to make the top of the pendulutn at their urlder surface; these pieces could bebrorlght awayfrom oneanotherbythe screw Y, so as to leave the wire free. The use of this wasS by the screr L, lSg. 4, to ad just the pendulum to its proper lengtll, which has inthis apparatus a considerable Xadvantagf, as it is not necessary, in the form I have given to tllis apparatus, to stop tlle clock in order to adjust it. These pieces of wood are mortisedSinto a transverse piece of deal at the top and at the bottom firmly. Before I attelupted to make a s7ery perfect machine on these principles, I resolved to try how fir this frame of wood might serve to conllect the points I and , fig <, and procured the apparatus for altering the point I screwed Q11 to one of theseperpendicular pieces of wood on 07ae side, and to the other on the other side. The pendlllum itself serves as a plulnmFet to place them perpendicular. In Mr. WHITEHURST}S ulachine the screw at L, fig. 4, went through a piece of brass, and rested llpon tit, Sxed to-the top of the clock-case. But in tny construction of it when the length of the rod IB, fig. i, is adjusted, the clock has nothing to do with the clockcase, excepting with that part of the svooden frame vstllich connect-s the point I with the point E, fig 1. If I had been, or were to construct a machine for this purpose D origine, insteaGIwof these two pieces c)f fir, I should employ a solid piece of brass., arld make two cyrlindric caxri-ties into it, parallel to vne f a new Penduturez.-°1rawtller and in these cavities place two glass tubes, about tvvt anches diameter,;I3erpendicularly upwards, which luay bedo<e iby vatious meanss and, while in thls situation11aving lleated . . -them gradu:ally to the kat of meltFed lead, -I sllotlld pour irt meltedlead, so as to fix them izthtir p]aces whetl it cooled The apparatus Evr fixing the point Ia ancl that fr lSsing the tube iI I, fig. 2 and g at F, firg i1 being also of brass, n; lleat they xYould always expand, and in cold con-tract,*equally, so that -the glass tubes would k-eep alvays at an equal distance from one another, and equally perpelldicular. Glass is not only very little apt tocontract and expand by heat, kut free frozn any such dispositiora from moisture or dryness wl*ich iis not the case with v$Zood. . . . . Having added the apparatus I have d^escribed to Mr. WIol TE HURST)S ma£hine, I set it a going, expectingS in tl-le situation I placed ot, only some approach towards accuracy in the lengsth of the pendulum. I fised bveside it a trarssit which b@longed to Mr. LUDLAM the principal parts of which were macle by Mre 1RAM8DEN, the object-glass was a four-feet focus achromatic by DOLLOND. I found-my meridian mark at about three quarters of a tnile distance. I likewise borrowed, Dom my-f-riend Mro STEVENSF a clock with a gridiron pendlllum, made-by G:RAHASq for hls father Drs STEVENS) Ir1 order to compare tlleln toge ther when I had no observations. There w-ere several trivial circtlmstances whoch baffled the experinents for some time not worth relating, one only excepted u which was, that the curvature of the wire, acquiwd by its bei-ng wound ;round a pirn, was not entirely u-nfolded for some months; so that tlae clock went slower and slower during that time. At length this difficulty was overcorne; I tin began to observe witln occxc^l. D Dr. FORDYCE)S AccountCRAHAM>S clock,in order to adjust thGlength of the pendulum, btlt found irregularities frequently take; place. I then adjusted it by obseraration, and soon found that GRAHAM'S clock went . . much more irregularly tharl my own. I adjusted it by turnirlg the head of the screw at Ln fig. 4, until the clock came to lose seven-tenths of a second in 244 hours. I did not think it Aworth while to bring it nearer; I then began-to observe, and carried on the observationss when the weather permitted, for about nine months, during which the thermometer had fallen so low as 5Q of FARRENSEIT, in the clock case, and risen as highSas S+; and with cotisiderable variations. Unfortunately I have mislaid or lost the particulars of each observation; but I have preserved the greatest diffierence from the rate of its gomg. Courlting on? accordlng to the rate of its going, during the whole time it never exceeded tlze sumf half a second, nor was ever less than half asecond, whether it was taken from day to day, month to rnonths or from any one to any other period during the observation. Undoubtedly, thereforef notwithstandling the errors thal; m-ight llave arisen from the expaIlsion of the wood btr moisture, and from the unsteadiness of the building in svhich it was pla£ed, it certainly performed-better than any ol:her time-piece that has been made; and perhaps a5ords a principte wllich may be u-sed in fixedW observatories for keeping t;irne wiLh certaiilty9 lby evsy and not very expensive mearlsS and of determinil^,, svith the rest of Mr. WHITESURST'S apparatus, the diSerence betweerl the lengths of tsvo pendulurns swinging.* equal archo of circles of diffierent cliameters, in any twv givertw diffierent times. The as-tronofmer royal llas alsosu$gested: an improv@nzent * 0g d new P.endulu.9viz. instead of grinding the two crystalline pieces in a cylindric fornl, the lower part should nbe ground in acycloidal forma then it would have the advantage of cycloidal clleeksb which no contrivance hitherto has been able to attain. There are some farther observations necessary to be made, to enable workmen to construct clocks according to tYhis prinw ciple, and so-me r-eflections uporl its operation. The manner of hanging a leaden weight to the pendulumb ts proportion to the maintaining power, the manner of apply ing the pendulum to the clock, and the structure of the clock are to be :foutld in Mr. WHITEHURST>S parnphlet ; witll -only this diffierence, that the¢steel wire should go through a tube placed in the axis of the spherical lead weight, -and be fixed at the bottom instead of the top of it. This, however, is of no great consequenc^e if there be a power-of altering the height of the fixed point I, fig 1; because Mr. WHITEHURST'S pendua lum consisting partly of steeln partly of lead, therefors the point I S must be adjusted to the joint expansions of lead ancl steel, if the wire be fixed at the top of the ball. The first reflection that I shall make is, that the st-eel wire the brass tube, and the materials which connect the poirlts I Ee being of diSerent sizes, and diffierent in their dispositiorl to be heated or cooled, some oneof theln might be heated or cooled faster than anothe:r. Bu-t where good clocks are kept7 the changes of the heat of th-e atmosphere are so slow, that ne ugreat difFerence ca:n take pla-ce i-n the tilne that each of the parts rises to the heat of the atmo-sphere iJa the room where the clock is kept none that could -make -any sensible error-. As the diffierence of the time when they acquired the heat, wsould be corn?ensated.by the diffierence of the time when they D g 2o Dr. FORDYCE*S. Account of a new Pendulum.acquired the cold-, it could hardly happen that any sensible dif terence ill the golng of the clock could arise in any period ofx twenty-four hours, whether transits of the sun or of any of the fised stars were taken. lGhe vvire in each vibration laangs, during a certain por tion of that vibration, between the two cylinders, and touches aeitoher of them q cIuring that time, the poillt Q NlUSt be considered as the top of the pendulum, not the slit between the cyliders but this part of the vibration may be so very small a proportion of it, aXs not to makef any sensible error X and it is accompanied on the other hand by a very great advantage ilixcept in Mr. -RNOLD'S compensation for heat in watches, in a11 the other modes a surface or surfaces necessarily slide over one another X whenever this-happens, if heat, by expanding one of the-bodiesn is to male its surface slide over the other, it has twothings to accomplish, to overcome the vis insita of theX matter, arld the atEra£tion of the two surfaces to one anozthe-r When then thereis heat enough applied j.ustSo overcome the ztis insita, i-t would not be suicient to overcomXe the attraction likewises excepting the rnatter was iXnfinitely hardw and inelastic. u4lthoug1< the heat therefore be increasect, the compensating parts at fi3ns.t do not moveX so much as to overcome both these resista-nces, afterwards the parts jerk on suddenlyg and in many cases go beyond what they othervise would bave done. As no<e of the expanding parts are to slxde upon one anotller inM. ARNQ-LD'Scompensation, and there is a time in every vibration, in the apparatus above described, when none of the expanding parts slide over any thing, this disadvantage is avoidecI¢ t<"//. -XB / f 'lc) 2 i7775797:;QJ Q .r:f X--S w-E._.Es ' --.#!fT f < ' 7 _ -S , ,lfiCNG; ! _ o lJ ) oo j #ScZo. iCr. AQ/EDCCXCR fiaZ. JEp 20 ' tr.t.3.p PEiZom. firanzr. MDCCXCTV:fia5. X p H C -v L { g ttillllul, N R | o 