(2179) An Accompt of some Books. 1. Of the USEFULNESS of EXPERIMENTAL NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, the Second Tome; by the Honourable Robert Boyle Esq; Fellow of the R. Society. Oxford 1671. in 4 ~. TH s Illustrious Author, in pursuance of his design, begun in the First Tome of this Work (published many years since) which is to manifest, that Experimental Philosophy is conducive to improve the Understanding and to increase the Power of Man, proceeds in this Second Tome to deliver Six very Instructive and Useful Essays. The First of which contains some General Considerations about the Means, whereby Experimental Philosophy may become Advantagious to Human Life; not only by bringing improvements both to the Trades that minister to the Necessities of Mankind, and to those that serve for Mans Accommodation and Delight; but also by introducing New ones, partly such as are altogether newly invinted, and partly such as are unknown in the place, where the Naturalist brings them in request. And not only so, but it shews further, that there is not any one Profession or Condition of Men, (perhaps not any single person of Mankind) that may not be some way or other advantaged or accommodated, if all the Truths discoverable by Natural Philosophy, and the Applications that might be made of them, were known to the Persons concerned in them: Intimating withall the Causes of Barrenness, that have hitherto kept Physicks from being considerably Useful; such as are, Many false and fruitless Doctrines of the Schools; the Prejudices, by which men have been hitherto impos'd on about Substantial Forms, and the Essential difference betwixt Natural and Artificial things,&c; a too plausible despondency; a want of belief that Physicks much concern'd Mens Interests; want of encouragement, of Curiosity, of a Method of enquiring and Experimenting; of Mathematicks and Mechanicks; of associated endeavours,and the like. The (2180) The Second Essaytreats of the Usefulness of Mathematicks to Natural Philosophy; shewing, that the Empire of Man may be considerably promoted by the Naturalists skill in those Sciences,as well Pure as Mixt. The Third proveth the Usefulness of Mechanical Disciplines to Natural Philosophy, shewing, that the Power of man may be much increased by the Naturalists skill in Mechanicks; forasmuch as Nature does play the Mechanitian, not only in Plants and Animals and their parts, but in many other curiously contrived Bodies. The Fourth manifests, That the Good of Mankind may be much increased by the Naturalists Insight into Trades: for the making out of which, the Author endeavors to shew two things; the one, that an Insight into Trades may im= prove the Naturalists knowledge; the other, that the Natu= ral Philosopher,as well by the skill thus obtained, as by the other parts of his knowledge, may be enabled to improve Trades; and this partly by increasing the number of Trades and adding New ones; partly,by uniting the Observations and Practiles of differing Trades into one Body of Collecti= ons; partly, by suggesting improvements in some kind or other of the particular Trades.And here we cannot but ob= serve, that our Noble Author taketh particular care in the Preamble to this Book, very fully to answer the objection, clamorously pressed by some,as if Tradesmen were injured by discovering those things, which are called the Mysteries of their Arts. The Fifth maketh it out,That that may be done by Physical knowledge, what is wont to require Manual skill,or,that the knowledge of peculiar Qualities, or Uses of Physical things,may enable a man to perform those things Physical= ly,that seem to require Tools and Dexterity of Hand, proper to Artificers. The Sixth and last represents Mens great Ignorance of the Uses of Natural things; or, that there is scarce any one thing in Nature, whereof the Uses to humane Life are yet throughly understood; which is done, both to rouze up the (2181) the Curiosity of Men by shewing how much it hath been defective, and to encourage it also, by shewing how much of Nature there remains yet undiscover'd,to recompense as well as to exercise our Industry. From the whole,the Attentive Reader will, besides the advantages that are common to it with the formerly publisht Tome, easily gather these peculiar uses: First, that it may afford many Materials for the History of Nature; which that it might the more plentifully do, the Author hath purposely on several occasions added a greater number of Instances,than were absolutely necessary for the making out of what he intended to declare or prove. Secondly,it may afford some Instructions, Advices and Intimations to promote the Practical or Operative part of Natural Philosophy in divers particulars,wherein Men have been either not able,or not sollicitous to assist the Curious. Thirdly, it may enable Gentlemen and Schollars to converse with Tradesmen,and benefit themselves (and perhaps the Tradesmen too) by that Conversation; or at least, it will qualify them to ask questions of Men that converse with things; and sometimes to exchange Experiments with them. Fourthly,it may serve to beget a confederacy and an Union between parts of Learning, whose Possessors have hitherto kept their respective skills strangers to one another; and by that means bring great Variety of Observations and Experiments of differing kinds into the Notice of one man, or of the same persons; a thing may prove very advantageous towards the increase of knowledge. Fifthly, it may contribute to the rescuing of Natural Philosophy from that unhappy Impuration of Barrenness, which it hath so long lain under,and which hath been,and still is, so prejudicial to it. And Lastly and principally,it may serve by Positive Considerations and Directions, to awaken the Generality of those that are any thing inqu sitive, and both loudly excite and somewhat assist the Curiosity of Mankind; from which alone may be expected a greater progress in Useful Learning,and consequently greater advantages to men,than in the present State of Humane affairs will be easily imagined, II. (2182) II. Enchiridion METAPHYSICUM, sive de REBUS INCORPOREIS Dissertatio, per H. M. Cantabrigiensem. Londini 1671. in 4~. THough this Freatise at the first aspect may seem not to be sutable to make an Ingredient of these Tracts, whose design and business it is to give an account of what is transacting among Learned and Ingenious Men in Physical, Mathematical and Mechanical matters; yet,after it shall have been made to appear,how great a number of Corporeal Phaenomena of the world and how many Physical Experiments are made use of and examined in this Book, in order to the attainment of the End proposed by the Author,it will then, 'tis presumed,be thought proper enough to be taken notice of in these Papers; it being so complicate with what Philosophers look upon as the very Principles of the Effects of Nature,Matter and Motion. The Learned Author then, worthily designing in this First part to evince the Existence of Incorporeal Beings, and to explain the Nature of them, thinks fit, for the compassing of that design, to consider and examine divers of the chief Phaenomena of the World, which have been by DesCartes and other noted Philosophers refer'd to meer Mechanical Causes; and upon examination to represent, that they are in vain and falsely adscribed to such Principles, and that consequently Immaterial Beings must needs be acknowledged to be the Causes of them. Which how successfully it is by him perform'd, we must leave to Perspicacious and Candid Readers to Judge: Our part only being to deliver here some of the principal Heads of this Treatise, and thereby to invite Judicious men to weigh the whole matter. Passing by therefore that part of this Dissertation,which is meerly Metaphyfical,we shall observe, First, that our Author chargeth the famous Des-Cartes to have deliver'd a precarious and a very unphilosophical definition of Motion, such (2183) such an one as is repugnant to Sense and all the Rational faculties,and to have introduced such Principles, whereby he might assert a Necessity of Existence in Matter. ~Next he maketh it his business to demonstrate,that there is some Extended immoveable, not imaginary,but real,Being, distinct from moveable Matter; which thing he maketh Spiritual and Immaterial, pervading the whole Universe and penetrating all Matter, and that which hath ever been and will be for ever (independently from our cogitation) and is something Divine. Where it may be observed, that, whereas Des-Cartes will have that Space, which is called Vacuum, to be that Corporeal substance, called Matter, he (our Author) labours to shew, that that Space or Internal Place is really distinct from Matter, and an Incorporeal Spirit; affirming thereupon, that by the same door, by which the Cartesian Philosophy seems to have endeavour'd to exclude God out of the World, he hath again introduced him, and attributing the same Titles to this Internal Place, that are ascribed to God, and making the Existence of this Space as eternal and necessary, as that of a Deity. See p. 63. 64. 66. 69. 71. 72. From this Extended Immoveable Substance he deduceth, that all Spirit, contradistinct to Matter, is extended or hath an Amplitude, yet not Physically,though mentally, divisible into parts; and would have us consider this immense and immaterial space and substance as some Representation of the Divine Essence, yet with a precision from the Life and Operations of the same. Then proceeding to the First Matter, as tis in it self. he defineth it to be an Homogeneal Congeries of Physical Monads or minute particles, that are not any more divisible, and that are impenetrable, and uncapable to dohere and move of themselves, though capable to be united and mov'd; whence he esteems, that the Existence of an Incorporeal substance can be sufficiently demonstrated, forasmuch as those minute particles cannot coalesce nor move of themselves. E f f Another (2184) Another argument to demonstrate the Existence of Incorporeal Beings he deduceth from the Successive Duration of the World. And then passeth on to prove the same (which doubtless the Reader will be surprised at) from divers Phaenomena of Nature, by him conceived not explicable by meer Mechanical causes; as from those of Gravity; from some Experiments performed in the Machina Boyliana, as that of the Suckers ascent with a great weight hung to it, and that of the firm Cohaesion of the two Marbles; as also from those Hyarostatical Experiments, concerning the Gravitation of water upon water; and concerning ponderous Bodies not sinking at a competent depth, and the Body of a Diver not sensible of pain: To which he adds those proofs,which he thinks may be taken, for the same purpose, from the Flux and Reflux of the Sea; from Magnetismes; from the Bigness and Figure of the Sun and Stars; from the immense Celerity of the Globuls in the upper part of the Vortex, and the Motion of Comets; from the nature of Light and Colours; from the generation of the Clouds and the roundness of Rain-drops, and the Rain-bow; from the Winds, Thunder and Lightning; from the Structure of Plants and Animals; from the Operations of the Soul; and from all those Phaenomena that are above and besides Nature. After all which he giveth us his Definition of a Spirit in general, together with its Explication; where he undertaketh both to make it out, Why an extended Spirit is more capable of Perception, than extended Matter? And, to shew, How a Spirit, so subtile and penetrative, that it seems not capable of adhering to Matter, may yet be conceived able to move and impell Matter? And that the cohaesion of a Spirit with Matter is as intelligible,as the Union of one part of Matter with another. III. DIO. (2185) III. DIOPHANT Alexandrini ARITHMETICORUM Libri sex, & de NUMERIS MULTANGELIS Liber unus; cum Commentarus C. G. Bacheti, & Observationibus D. P. de Fermat Senatoris Tholosani: Cui accessie Doctrinae Analyticae Inventum Navum: Tolosae, 1670. in Folio. BEing inform'd,that there is an Able Mathematician here, that intends to publish in due time his considerations touching what is said to be New in this Edition, we shall here only intimate, That in this Book, the Works of Diophantus Alexandrinus (concerning Numeral Algebra or Analyticks, and Figurate Numbers) as they were for merly published in Greek and Latin by Gasper Bachet, with his Commentaries thereon and some Treatises of his own, prefixed and subjoyned thereto; are now printed anew with the Annotations of that Excellent Senator of the Parliament of Tholouze, Monsieur Fermat; together with some New Inventions of His in Numeral Algebra, and the Solution of divers Numeral Problems, omitted by others: Collected out of his private Letters by R. P. Jacobus de Billy S. I. All published by Monsieur Fermat, P. Fil. IV. ROSETUM GEOMETRICUM, cum Censura brevi Doctrinae Wallisianae de Motu, Auth. Thoma Hobbes Malmesburiensi. Londini apud Guil. Crook, ad sign. Draconis viridis without Temple bar. 1671. in 4~. THe Author of this Tract tells his Algebrist Reader in his Preface to him, that he will end the Controversie he hath with him (if he pleaseth) in this manner. First he would have him inquire, Whether a series of equal quantities, or of such as oncrease in a certain ration, as duplicat, or triplicat, &c. be a finit or infinit quantity. If he finds it to be Infinit; he would then have him inquire, Whether that can have any proportion to a Finit quantity. Thirdly, he would have him inquire, Whether a Line or any other Magnitude be not divisible in infinitum; or, whether there can be a quantity infinitely small? If he finds,that all quanF f f 2 tity (2186) tity is ever divisible, and that a series of equal quantities, orof such as do increase equally, or in a duplicat or triplicat ration, is an Infinit quantity, and holds no proportion to a Finit; and that there is no quantity infinitly small; then he would have him grant, that the Doctrine of Dr. Wallis in his Arithmetica Infinitorum, and in his Book of Motion lately publish'd,is vain and false as founded on them;but if other wise, he will yeild the victory. The Book it self treateth first of 21 Propositions, said by the Author to have been attempted hitherto in vain: adding a Censure concerning Dr. Wallis's two first parts Of Motion and Mechanicks, which hath some strictures accusing those Treatises of Obscurity and vitious Definitions; which how justly'tis done, I leave to the Readers Judgment, or to the Answer that may be expected from the Person concerned. V. The Prodromus of a Disertation concerning a SOLID CONTAINED IN A SOLID, by Nicolaus Steno. English't out of Latin. London 1671. by Moses Pitt in Litle Britain, in 8~. THe Author of this Curious and Learned Prodromus apprehending, that he might be diverted for a great while from finishing his intended main Dissertation touching the Frame and Changes of the Earth, and the Manner of the Productions made therein; thought fit to deliver in this Tract both a Scheme and a Breviate of the same; forasmuch as he doth not only delineate the Method, he hath therein observed, but also sums up the most considerable particulars of his whole Design. He saith then, that he hath divided that Dissertation of his into Four parts. The First, by way of Introduction, is to shew, that the Question about Marine substances, found at a great distance from the Sea, is ancient, pleasant and useful, and that, though the Solution thereof have been hitherto very uncertain, yet he hopeth he shall be able to bring it to a certainty. The Second, resolveth this General Problem (whence he conceiveth that the Explication of (2187) of all the difficulties about this Subject depends,) viz. A Natural Body of a certain Figure being given, to find arguments and marks in the Body itself, whereby to detect the Place and Manner of its Production: Which Problem he affirms to have so resolved, that no Sect of Philosophers shall find just cause to except against the Principles and Notions by him supposed for its Explication. The Third is design'd to examine the Particular Solids included in a Solid, according to the Laws discover'd in the Resolution of the General Problem. The Fourth is to-represent, the different States or Constitutions of Toscany (for Instance) aud propoundeth a way of Explicating the Phaenomena of the General Deluge, not contrad cting the Laws of Natural Motions. And so much for his designed Method. As to the Summ of the most remarkable particulars of the whole work, it may be reduced to this. First, he comprehends, what he hath to offer about his above mentioned General Problem, in three Propositions; One is, that is a Solid Body be every way encompass'd with another Solid Body, that of the two was first hardned; which by the mutual contact expresseth on its surface the proprieties of the surface of the other. The Second is, that if a Solid Body be every way like another Solid Body; not only as to the condition of its surface, but also as to the inward frame and texture of its parts, it is also like to it as to the Manner and Place of its production; excepting only those qualities of Place, which are often found in it, and are not any advantage or disadvantage to the production of the Body there lodged. The Third is, that a Body produced according to the Laws of Nature, is produced out of a Fluid. Where yet he waveth the first Delineations in the production of Solid Bodys, but delivers several positions about their Increase. Having thus generally consider'd a Solid contain'd within a Solid, he proceeds to a Particular examination of those various Solids, that are digg'd out of several parts of the Earth, as Incrustations, Sediments or Beds, Angular Bodies, Shels (2188) Shels of Sea-fishes, the shapes of Cockles and Plants, &c. From the Change of the Scite of Beds he giveth an Account; 1. Of the Principal Origin of Mountains, Hillocks and Valleys, and their various Constitution, Matter, Shape, &c. 2. Of the Passages for Springs and Winds rushing out of Mountains, faetid Exhalations, hot Ebullitions; as also of the Changes of Hot Springs into Cold,and the Turning of the Course of Rivers another way; of Rivers,running in one place under ground, and rising again in another; of whole Countries being swallow'd up with their Houses and Trees; of great Lakes now appearing where Towns stood formetly, &c. 3. Of the many kinds of variegated Stones, as also of the Receptacles of Minerals; where do occur very good Observations. In his discourse about Angular Bodies, he delivers many considerable things about the Production of Chrystals in the Cavities of Stones, about their first Concretion between two Fluids,or between a Fluid and a Solid,or in a Fluid; as also about the Motion of the Chrystal in matter, whereby it is determin'd to the Planes of the all-ready form'd Chrystal: Concluding from his Observations, that extream Cold is not the Efficient cause of Chrystals; nor that'tis the Ashes alone burnt by fire that turn into Glass; nor the force of the Fire alone that produceth Glass; and that 'tis not beyond the power of Man, to discover a production of Glass without the violence of Fire: Where, by the by, he intimates what it is, whence depends the main cause of the difference of Chrystal from Glass, both as to Refraction and other Operations. From Chrystals he passeth on to consider the Angular Bodies of Iron and Copper; and sheweth, how the production of them agreeth in some things with that of Chrystals, and how it differs from them. Thence he goes on to Diamonds, and observeth,how they also are produced in a Fluid inclosed in the Cavities of Stones, together with the variety of their Figure. Next, he discouriseth of Marcasites, and delivers also several Observations (2189) servations about the Selenites, and of Talc, and affirms in particular, that the solid body of Talc may be dissolv'd into a Fluid, as being coagulated from a Fluid, though that dissolution cannot at all be perform'd by Fire, forasmuch as that part of it, which is able to dissolve it, flyes away by the torture of the Fire. After this he proceeds to Shells, both taken out of the Sea, and found in Mountains; shewing, of what and how they are produced, and whence proceeds the variety of colours seen in them; and explaining particularly, how Pearls are produced, as well those, that being fastn'd to the Shels are not so very round, as those which by reason of the obstruction of the pores in the Animals surface acquire a round figure within the pores themselves: where occur many (in my opinion) very curious and uncommon Observations of the Coats of Pearls and the Shels of Pearlbearing Fishes, and their difference; as also of the cause of the different Colours in Pearls; making it manifest,that though globuls made up of various coats may be contriv'd by Art, in imitation of Nature; yet to dispose their tunicles out of a series of threds by an apposition of one to another, whence depends the native splendor of Pearls,will be very hard to effect. Next, he giveth an account of Shels lying under-ground, affirming, that they were once the parts of Animals living in Water, and proving it by the sole inspection and consideration of those Shels themselves. Which done, he maketh out the particular Phaenomena of divers of them found in Toseany. And what he hath said of Shels, he affirms also of other parts of Animals, and of the Animals themselves buryed in the Earth, such as are the Teeth of Sea dogs, the Back bones of Fishes, various sorts of whole Fishes, Skuls, Horns, Teeth, Shanks and other Bones of Terrestrial Animals; where he informs us particularly,what to judge not only of the great number of Teeth brought away every year from Maltha; but also of the huge Thigh-bones, Skuls, Teeth, and other Bones digg'd out of the Earth. Which (2190) Which done, he labours to evince by a notable Instance, that the production of many Shels found in these times is to be referr'd to the times coincident with the General Deluge. And what he hath prov'd of Animals and their parts, he extends to Vegetables found under ground; shewing withal, what may be conceived of the Figures of Plants appearing on Stones. He concludeth this Prodromus with a remarkable Information, shewing, How we may from the present Face of the Earth, by an attentive view, discover the former state of it. Which he endeavours to make out by an Example taken from Toscany; in the present Face of which he conceiveth, that the obvious Inequalities proclaim to an heedful Observer manifest arguments and signs of Six different Changes happen'd therein; the face of it having been, by his Observations,twice fluid, twice plane and dry,and twice un even; which as he attempts to demonstrate by an Induction of many places in Toscany view'd by himself, so he confirms it of the Whole Earth by the Descriptions of various parts of the World made by several Authors; obviating the chief difficulties, that may occur about each Face and particular Constitution of the Earth. 