e Philos. ~ f E Fig. 3. p. 126. g d Fig. 2. p. 125. c b a Wet or very Moist H ~ Moister 25 Moist XX Moistish B Middle State 15 G Dryish X Dry Dryer 5 Fig. 1. F Greatest Drougth or very Dry D p. 96. A I ~. Trans. No. 479. TAB. I. E ~. 3. F G 126. F G B D C C 2 3 A 1 An Account of Two extraordinary Deers Horns, found under-ground in different Parts of Yorkshire; in a Letter from Mr. Tho. Knowlton, to Mr. Mark Catesby, F. R. S. T H E Head and Horns, which is represented in TAB. I. Fig. 2. were found in a Sand-bed, in the River Rye, which runs into the Read March 13. 1745-6. Derwent, 8 [125] Derwent, in the East-Riding, belonging to Ralph Crathorn, Esq;. They were discovered as he was fishing for Salmon; the Net happening to hang on one or two of the Antlers, he ordered to pull away; by which some of the Antlers were broke off, and discovered it to be Part of a Deer's Horn. At length, with some Difficulty, it was dug out pretty intire. Mr. Crathorn supposes, that these wild Moors were once inhabited with these Kind of Deer, not any such now being known to be in this Kingdom; and supposes it is, at least, seven or eight Hundred Years since its Death; and that by Age or Poverty destroyed, and by Time buried in those Sands. It is about three Years since it was found (as the above-said worthy Gentleman told me) where he lives; which is at Ness near Malton in Yorkshire. TAB. I. Fig. 2. a is 12 Inches long. b is ditto. c is ditto. d is 4 Inches from the main Horn, and the two cross Branches are 8. e is 6 Inches. f is 7 Inches. g is 6 Inches; and 2 Feet 10 Inches from the Root of the Horn to the Tip. All those Places with Marks were broke, and put together again. TAB. I. Fig. 3. St. lb. This Skull and Horns weigh 4 12 It [126] It was found in a Peat-Moss, at Cowthrop near North Dreighton in Yorkshire, in the Year 1744. Ft. Inches. The Length of the Skull, from the Nose End 1 10 mark'd A, to the Back-Part of the Head B, The Breadth of the Forehead, from C to C 0 11 Length of each Horn, from the Skull D to 5 1 the Tip, The Extent of the Horns, from E to E 6 1 The Breadth of the Webor Palm, from FG to F, 2 1 FG and G, two Places where the Horns are broke. 1 The Nostrils. 2 The Eye. 3 The Teeth, which are very large and sound. N. B. It is evident the Horns are not at their full Growth, being yet covered with what is called the Velvet. The Figure above is the Representation and extraordinary Dimensions of the Skull and Horns of a Deer, dug from the Depth of 6 Feet out of a PeatMoss, as above mentioned. But what I think more extraordinary is, that the late Earl of Carlisle's Steward, Mr. Joice, in digging the Foundation of an House and Cellars, found, at the Depth of 6 Feet, a Part of a Jaw-bone with Teeth, and a Horn of a Buck or Stag, of most exceeding large Dimensions, which lay buried under two Feet common Soil; then one Foot of Scalping or Sand-bed; then eighteen Inches of Stone; then another Vein of Sand, six Inches; then another Head of Stone; under [127] under which lay those before-mention'd Jaw-bone, and Piece of Horn; which, in all Appearance, to every one that viewed these Stratums, had never been removed. M. C. Dimensions of the Deers Horns in the Musaeum of the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. Feet Inches. Length of the Skull 1 4 Breadth of the Forehead 0 9 Length of each Horn 5 0 Distance of the extreme Tips of the Horns 6 0 N. B. These Horns (Fig. 3.) are evidently of the same sort as those often found in Ireland, of which Descriptions are given in Transact. n. 227, n. 394. and n. 444, p. 389. But I do not remember to have met with any before of this Species found in England, or any-where else besides Ireland. C. M. VI. 