(541) Numb. 29 P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. Monday, Novemb. 11. 1667. The Contents. A description of an Instrument for Dividing a Foot into many thousand parts, and thereby measuring the Diameters of Planets to great exactness. &c. as it was formerly promised. An account of making a Dog a aw his Breath just like a Wind-broken Horse. Divers Anatomical Observations on Humane Bodies. Several Instances of Peculiarities of Nature, both in Men and Brutes. A Confirmation of the Experiments mentioned in Numb. 27. to have been made in Italy, by injecting Acid Liquors into Blood. An observation about the double Membrane called Epiploon, which covers the Entrails of Animals, and is filled with Fat. Some Hortulan Communications about the curious Engrasting of Oranges and Lemons, or Citrons, upon one anothers Trees, and of one Individual Fruit, half Orange and half Lemon, growing on such Trees. An imitation of a way of preserving, in the more Northern Climates, Orange-trees all Winter long, without any Fire. Enquiries for Greenland. An Account of the Synopsis N O V A E P H I L O S O P H I A E & M E D I C I N A E Francisci Travagini, Medici Veneti. A Description Of an Instrument for dividing a Foot into many thousand parts, and thereby measuring the Diameters of Planets to a great exactness, &c. as it was promised, Numb. 25. If the residence of the worthy Promiser of this Instrument, Mr. Richard Townley, had not been so remote from London, nor K k k me (542) some other Impediments intervened (after it was come to hand), First on the Publisher's, then on the Engraver's side; the following Particulars concerning the same, promised some Months ago, had been imparted to the Publick a good while before this time: For the Draught of the Figures, representing the New Instrument it self, and the Description of the same, we are obliged to the ingenuity of Mr. Hook. THe first, second, and third Figures do represent the several parts of this Instrument; the fourth Figure, part of the Telescope, with the Instrument applied to it, and the fifth, the Rest, on which the whole reposeth. The first Figure represents the brass Box with the whole Instrument, (excepting only the moveable Cover) and the Screws, by which it is fixt to the Telescope. In this Figure (a a a a) is a small oblong brass Box, serving both to contain the Screws, and its Sockets or Female Screws, and also to make all the several moveable parts of the Instrument to move very true, smooth, and in a simple direct Motion. To one end hereof is serewed on a round Plate of Brass (b b b b) about 3 inches over; the extream Limb of whose outside is divided into 100 equal parts, and numbred by 10, 20, 30, &c. Through the middle of this Plate, and the middle of the Box (a a a) is placed a very curiously wrought Screw of about the bigness of a Goose Quill, and of the length of the Box, the head of which is by a fixed Ring or Shoulder on the inside, and a small springing Plate (d d) on the outside, so adapted to the Plate, that it is not in the least subject to shake. The other end of this Screw is by another little Screw (whose small point fills the Center or hole made in the end of the longer Screw for this purpose) render'd so fixt and steady in the Box, that there appears not the least danger of shaking. Upon the head of this Screw without the Springing Plate, is put on a small Index (e e), and above that a Handle (m m) to turn the Screw round as often as there shall be occasion, without at all endangering the displacing of the index, it being put on very stiff upon a Cylindrical part of the Head, and the Handle upon a Square. The Screw hath that third of it, which is next the Plate, bigger than the (543) the other two Thirds of it, by at least as much as the depth of the small Screw made on it: The thread of the Screw of the bigger Third is as small again,as that of the Screw of the other two Thirds. To the grosser Screw is adapted a Socket (f) fasten'd to a long Bar or Bolt (g g), upon which is fasten'd the moveable Sight (h), so that every turn of the Screw promotes the Sight (h) either a thread nearer, or a thread farther off from the fixt Sight (i). The Bar (g g) is made exactly equal and fitted into two small Staples (k k), which will not admit of any shaking. There are 60 of these threads; and answerable thereto, are made 60 divisions on the edge of the Bolt or Ruler (g g); and a small Index (l) fixt to the Box (a a a) denotes, how many threads the edges of the two Sights (h) and (i) are distant; and the Index (e e) shews on the Circular Plate what part of a Revolution there is more, every Revolution, as was said before, being divided into 100 parts. At the same time that the moveable Sight (h) is moved forwards or backwards, or more threads of the courser Screw, is the Plate (pp. in Fig. 2.) by the means of the Socket (q) to which it is screwed, moved forward or backward, or more threads of the finer Screw: So that this Plate, being fixt to the Telescope by the Screws (r r. in Fig. 2.) so as the middle betwixt the Sights may lye in the Axis of the Glass, however the Screw be turn'd, the midst betwixt the Sights will always be in the Axis, and the Sights will equally either open from it, or shut towards it. Fig. 2. represents the moveable Cover containing the Screws, to be by the Bookseller cut off by the pricked Line (x x x) from the Paper, and to be fitly placed on Figure I. according to the pricked Line (y y y) answering thereto; that by the taking off, as it were, or folding up of this Cover, the inward contrivance of the Screws and Sights may appear. And because it is conceived by some ingenious Men,that it will be more convenient, instead of the Edges of the two Sights (h and i) to employ two Sights fitted with Hairs, therefore is added Figure 3. representing the two Sights (r and s) so fitted with Threads (t and u) that they may be conveniently used in the place of the solid Edges of the Sights (h and i). The fourth Figure represents,How the Screws are to be put on. K k k 2 The (544) The Tube AD is divided into 3 lengths, of which (as in ordinary ones) B C is to lengthen or contract, as the Object requires: But A B is here added, that at A you may put such Eye-Glasses as shall be thought most convenient, and to set them still at the distance most proper for them, Indexes or Pointers, which here are supposed to be at B, which length alters also in respect of divers persons Eyes. E is a Screw, by which the great Tube can be fixt so, as by the help of the Figures any smaller part of it can immediately be found, measuring only, or knowing the Divisions on B C, the distance of the Object-glass from the Pointers. F is the Angular piece of Wood, that lies on the upper Screw of the Rest. This Rest is represented by Fig. 5. As for a Description of the uses of this ingeniously contrived and very curious Engine, the Reader is desired to look back to the before-alledged Numb. 25. A Note to be inserted above, pag. 544. after line 12. THis Rest (by Mr. Hook's suggestion) may be render'd more convenient, if, instead of placing the Screw Horizontal, it be so contriv'd, that it may be laid parallel to the Equinoctial, or to the Diurnal Motion of the Earth; for by that means the same thing may be perform'd by the single motion of one Screw, which in the other way cannot be done but by the turning of both Screws: As will easily appear to those that shall consider it. In the SAVOY, Printed by T.N. for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society, and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar, 1667. No:29. A B C D Fig. 4. E 1 2 3 F Fig: 3 b r t v s d h i l b a Fig: 1. a a g g c c k q f a a e m d c b m Fig: 5. Fig: 2. P P P 