An Account of some Books. 1.De RESISTENTIA SOLIDORUM Alexan. Marchetti, in ~ sana Academia Phil.Prof.Excusum Florentiae 1665 in thin 4~. THis book came not long since to my hands: It had been promised some years before under the Title of Galilaeus ampliatus. But the Author now follows not the Steps of Gatilaeus, but demonstrates all his Propositions another way;building all upon this ground: Momenta Gravium proportionem habent compositam ex proportionibus ponderum & longitudinum: which is his first Proportion. This Book being but small,and the subject admitting of enlargement, the Author promiseth a larger Treatise of the same. II. Tabula numerorum QUADRATORUM decies millium, und cum ipsorum LATERIBUS ab Unitate incipientibus, & ordine naturaliusque ad 10000. progredientibus. Londini, 1672. A Table of ten thousand Square numbers, namely of all the Square Numbers between 0 and 100 milions; and of their Sides or Roots: Which are all the whole Numbers between 0 and ten thousand: 8 sheets in fol. The Concinnity of 10, 8 or 7. Centuries in each opening,may so please some Reader's eye as to invite him to continue the Table (4051) Table to 100 thousand Squares, placed in the same order. But Arithmeticians will see divers advantages, which would have been lost, if there had been more or fewer lines in a page; or if the Centuries had not stood entire in every aperture. The two last pages are sufficiently contained in p.30. which preceeds them,if men were acquainted with the compendious way of writing in Cribris. That fair edition of Aratus, printed this year in Oxford,adjoins some fragments of Eratosthenes(who dyed almost 1900 yeares ago.) Among the rest, there is the beginning of his Arithmetical ~ of odd numbers, to shew, which of them are incomposit &c. The loss of that eribrum was abundantly supplied by the Table of incomposit numbers, printed at London for Mr.Pitt.1668; as this Table is. Those 3 last pages have a Curiosity,perhaps not seen before; viz. an accurate enumeration of all the Endings of numbers truly Square. Those Endings in one figure are six; in two figures, are 22; in three figures,are 159; in 4. figures,are 144: which,being here set down in their natural order, stand there ready to discover many long given numbers not to be Square; which otherwise could not have been perceived to be such till after extraction. But they also give an occasion to transcribe here the three last lines of the last page, which are these. ``Having the two three or four last figures of any Square number, ``to exhibit as many of the last figures of its side,is a new Question, ``to which the just answers are manifold and not obvious. A ``particular Account of them is ready for the press, when it shall be desired. In the mean time,the Publisher,having seen the said Account in the hands of the Author(Doctor Pell,) is able,for the clearing of those words [the just answers are manifold] to add thus much: When the Question is concerning the 22 Combinations, 20 of them have 4 Answers a peice; 50 of them have,each of them, 10 Answers. When the Question is concerning the 159 Ternions; 100 of them have 4 Answers a peice: 50 of them have, each, 8 Answers; Two of them have, each, ten Answers; Five of them, have each, 20 Answers; Two have, each of them, 40 Answers. When (4052) When the Question is concerning the 1044 Quaternions; 1000 of them have 8 Answers a peice; 40 of them have,each,40 Answers; four of them have, each, 100 Answers: As it is hoped, will shortly appear in print; that so the Excellent Author may proceed to publish his higher and more plausible superstructures. III. Regneri de Graaf. de MULIERUM ORGANIS GENERATIONI INSERVIENTIBUS Tractatus novus. Lugduni Batavorum, 1672 in 8~. WHat this Inquisitive and Industrious Anatomist had formerly promised touching this Subject (intimated No. 34.p.663. and No.79.p.3066.3067.)he now amply performeth in this Treatise, which appears to be written upon long search and much examination, and is illustrated with many very curious and accurate Schemes. The main Design of the Book is, to make it out what the Author as well,as Van Horn,Steno,Swammerdam,and others have given out concerning the Manner of Generation in Animals call'd Viviparous; viz. that they,no less than the Oviparous,have Ovaria containing many Eggs; and that those Eggs are after the same manner rendred prolifick,and come to the Uterus, as they do in Fowl: which he saith will be found more than probable to those,that shall have well examin'd the Genitals of Oviparons creatures; in regard that, as the extremity of the Oviductus or Egg-channel ends in a membranous expansion in Birds; so the Tubae Fallopianae do end likewise in Quadrupeds. And as the same Oviductus in Birds receiveth the Eggs falling from their buds; so the said dilated Tubae in Quadrupeds do receive the Eggs expell'd out of the Baggs. Which that it may be the better clear'd up, he observeth. 1. Ova haec in testibus generari ac perfici,eodem modo quo vitelli in Avium ovariis solent; quatenus soil. per arterias praeparantes sanguis ad testes affluens, in membranosa illorumsubstantia materiam iis generandis ae nutriendis relinquit. 2. Ova e testibus expelli, quoties masculino semine irradiata, brevi post coitum faecundum, inter eorum tunicas, glandulosa quaedam substantia excrescit,quae Ovum tamdiu comprimit,donec per papillam, in extrema folliculi superficie conspicuam, erumpat; idque vel citius vel tardius, prout animalia longiori aut breviori tempore uterum gerunt. 3. Ova (4053) 3. Ova hac ratione e testibus propulsa necessario in Abdominis cavum esse delapsura, nisi Tubae Fallopianae inexplicabili, at visibili tamen, modo ova illa exciperent, & ad uterum deveberent: Visibilem dicit, cum saepius id conspexisse se,& indies se demonstrare posse affirmet. Whereunto he adds the changes, which those Eggs daily undergo in utero: All which things coming to pass in Cows, Ewes, and other Animals, frequently dissected by him, he concludeth, that Generation in Women also is made after the same manner,quippe quae ova in testibus, & tubas utero annexas, uti bruta animantia, obtineant. Mean time, he would not have any one phancy, that the Eggs in Quadrupeds and Women are invested with a hard shell: that being not essential to an Egg,and there being more sorts of Eggs that have no such hard shell,than that have it; as of Fishes, Froggs, Serpents,&c. Nec putare nos volit, in Mulieribus & caeteris Viviparis, isto quo in Gallinis modo, per unum alterumve diem Mari commissis, omnia omnino Ovafaecundareddi; cum ne quidem in omni Avium genere id sieri certum sit, in quorum aliis duo in aliis tria, in aliis quatuor, in nonnullis decem & plura Ova simul faecundentur & ab iis excludantur. Mulieres vero,quanquam & ipsae plura in Ovariis ova contineant, plaerumque tamen in nostris regionibus unum tantum Ovum, masculino semine irradiatum e testibus in uterum expellant; quanquam & plura interdum eodem simul coitu irrorari citra miraculum possint: cujus rei multa apud Casp Bauhinum l.1.de Hermaphr. c. 8. exempla legantur; ubi nanc tres, nunc quinque, nunc decem & plures faetus uno partu editos reperies; quod canibus, faetibus, cuniculis &c. perquam familiare est. Ubi tamen notatu dignum, in istis animalibus tot passim folliculos in testibus existere, quot faetus aut Oua in utero, & nunquam in utero plures faetus adesse, quam folliculos in testibus; ita ut ex testibus solis, faetuum in utero existentium numerus dignosci possit. But, besides the clearing of this matter and the difficulties and objections raised against it, the Author is very full and accurate, in describing the Genitalia Mulierum themselves. Moreover he giveth us two curious and instructive Schemes de partibus Genitalibus Galli & Gallinae, together with their Explication. And he omits not to deliver a minute desciption of the Tubae Fallopianae mulierum; and shews, whence it is, that by some they are esteem'd altogether and alwaies close, whereas they are at certain times really open, though the hole of their extremity be very narrow; p. 246. He rejects the (commonly so called) Vasa deferentia from being fit vessels for transmitting Eggs, p. 250. as he also contradicts the assertion of those,that pretend to have found humane faetus's of no more than 3,4. or 8, daies old after conception, p. 246. * See Numb. 81 p.4021. Further he informs us, How an Egg is by degrees changed in utero; how it is nourished and augmented there from time to time; and in what order each part is perfected &c. Concerning which, the Reader will probably receive in a short time some discoveries, made, and lately (4054) lately imparted to the Royal Society, by Signor Malpighi, an Italian, and Dr. Croon an English physitian,both Fellows of that Society. He concludeth all with an excellent Chapter, treating of the Generation of Rabbets, and thereby confirming all the main parts of his former doctrine. IV.Discours de la CONOISSANCE des BESTES;par leP.Ignace Gaston Pardies, S.J. A Paris 1672. in 12~ THe learn'd Author of this Book examines therein the Opinion of those,that esteem Beasts to be meer Engins without any perception and Knowledge. In the doing of which, he represents at large and to advantage what hath been and may be alledged in favour of that doctrine; that so, when he shall be found by the Teachers of it not to be of their sentiment, they may not Judge him to be a Dissenter at least for want of having considered their reasons. After he hath spent the greatest part of his discourse in urging the arguments for the sole Mechanical Contrivance of the Structure and Operations of Beasts; and interspersed the discussion of the Opinion of the other extreme, which adscribes Reason to them: He declares at last his sense of this whole matter, and endeavours to prove, That Beasts, though they have not any Intellectual, yet they have a Sensible knowledg; or,though they have not such a perception that essentially carrieth with it a reflection upon it self; yet they have a simple apprehension of Objects without that reflexion. So that he esteems, that from this distinction all the difficulties,that have been proposed, will vanish; and that the reasons, alledged to the contrary, proove indeed, that Beasts have no Spiritual knowledge, but not at all, that they have no Sensible one. For the particulars, whereby this is endeavoured to be made out, we refer the Reader to the Book itself. 