J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. Some Inquiries relating particularly to the Bleeding of Walnuts; suggested by Dr. Ezerel Tonge in a Letter of his to the Publisher, of March 22. 1670. AFter I had been troubled a while at the Observation of Mr. Willoughby, concerning Sycamores staying in hot, and running in cold weather, and had re-commended an Hypothesis to salve the Phaenomena, and to reconcile the seeming repugnancy's*, he hath rais'd two other difficulties for me, of Sycomores running in November, and Walnuts never running but in cold weather: The former of which Observations puts me out of conceit of a Salvo, I found, and offer'd, in my publisht Papers, to Birch suppos'd to have run in Autumne, and found to have jelly'd the hole * Of which in Numb. 57. p. 1165, 1166. (1201) hole full at Spring, which was bored that time Twelve-Moneth before, and yielded not any sap at all that Spring, as far as could be observ'd, and was not come to its season of bleeding the second Spring, when the Jelly was observ'd in the bor'd hole *. The latter, of the Walnut not bleeding but in cold weather, being inconsistent with the Observations, often made by me of that Tree, not only bleeding and bleeding longer in warmer weather, but bleeding longer at the roots on the South-side in the Sun, than on the North-side in the Shade, and constantly governing the Course of its Sap in its beginning to rise and to stop daily at the rising and setting of the Sun; I shall betake my self, instead of opining, to make some naked Queries for the finding out the matter, viz. * See Numb. 44. p. 890. 1. Whether this Observation of Mr. Willoughby's concerning the Walnut-Tree, was in Roots, Body, Branches; all, or some, or one? 2. Whether the Sap of a Tree, as to its motion, be not influenced from the Full or Wane, or other Aspect of the Moon to the Sun, &c? 3. Whether the Walnut, being a more solid Wood, have not some alteration as to heat, ascent of Sap, &c. from thence different from Birch? 4. What the Age and Bulk of the Tree, consuming perhaps insensibly what rose insensibly in hot, not in cooler Weather? 5. What the time of the Year? The Aspes run only, as M. Midford relates, before February; the Hopp about Hopp-harvest. Withies in April, &c. 6. Whether the weight of the Atmo-sphere will put some check to Sap rising in that part of the Root, which is cut off from the Body? And whether the exclusion of that Imped ment, by closing the cut Root in Glass, will cause any sensible alteration: to be tried in several Roots of the same Tree of like Diameter. I want a good Thermometer, Barometer, and Hygro-meter, (or if you will have English Names for them, a Heat-Weight-and-Wet-Wiser) to make more accurate Observations, how far the ascending of Sap depends on the Air, and the several temperatures of the same. 