405J XXII. On some Combinations of Phosphorus and Sulphur, and on. some other Subjects of Chemical Inquiry. By Sir Humplwy Davy, Knt. LL. D. Sec. R. S. Read June i8, I 8I. -. Introduction. IN this paper, I shall( do myself the honour of laying before the Society, the results of some experiments on phosphorus and sulphur, which establish the existence of some new compounds, and which offer decided evidences in favour of an idea that has been fur some time prevalent amongst many enlightened chemists, and which. I have defended in former papers published in the Philosophical Transactions, namely, that bodies unite in definite proportions, andthat there is a relation between the quantities in which the same element unites with different elements. I shall not enter into a minute detail of the methods of ex. perimenting that I employed; I shall confine myself to general statements of the facts. The common manipulations of chew mistry are now too well known to require any new illustra-. tions: and to d&Aell upon familiar operations, would be to occupy unnecessarily and tediously the time of this learned body. MDCCCXII. G ,t Sir H.DAVY 0 somee omnbinatzons 2. Of omsoene Combinations of Phosphorus. Ifn a paper read before the Royal Society in i8 to, I have described the mutual action of phosphorus and oxymuriatic gas, or chlorine. I have noticed two compounds which appear to be distinct and peculiar bodies, formed by the union of the gas and the inflammable substance. One is solid, white, and crystalline in its appearance; easily volatile, and capable of forming a fixed infusible substance by uniting with ammonia. The other is fluid, limpid as water, and, as I have since found, of specific gravity I.4. it produces dense fumes by acting upon the water of the atmosphere, and when exposed to the atmosphere gradually disappears, leaving no residuum. The composition of the white sublimate is very easily ascertained by synthetical experiments, such as I have described on a former occasion inI the Transactions. By employing chlorine dried by muriate of lime, in great excess, and making the experiments in exhausted vessels, and admitting solution of chlorine to ascertain the quantity of gas absorbed, I have ascertained that 3 grains of phosphorus unite with about 20 grains of chlorine to form the sublimate, If the phosphorus be in great excess in the experiment of its combustion in chlorine, soune of the liquor is formed with the sublimate; but to obtain it in considerable quantities, phosphorus should be passed in vapour through heated uowdered corrosive sublimate. A bent glass tube may be used for the process, and the liquor condensed in a cold vessel connected with the tube. I have not been able to determine its conmposition by synthetical experiments ; but by pouring it gradually into water, of Phosphorus and Sulphur, &c. 407 suffering the water to become cool after each addition of the liquor, and then precipitating the solution by solution of nitrate of silver, I have ascertained the quantity of chlorine and of phosphorus it contains. 13.6 grains, treated in this way, afforded 43 grains of horn silver. It is evident from this analysis, compared with the result of the synthetical experiments on the sublimate, that the quantity of phosphorus being the same, the sublimate contaiins double as much c'lorine as the liquor. When phosphorus is heated in the liquor, a portion is disc solved, and it then when exposed to the atmosphere leaves a film of phosphorus, which wihen the liquor is thrown on paper usually Knflames: a substance of this kind was first procuredby MRM. GAY LussAc and THENARD, by distilling pophorus and calomel together; and it may be produced in the experiment with corrosive sublimate, if sufficient heatbe used to sublime the phosphorus or if there be not an excess of the corrosive sublimate. I have made no experiments in order to ascertain the quantity of phosphorus the liquor will dissolve. When the w:hite sublimate is made toact upon water, it dissolves in it producing much heat. The solution evaporated affords a thick liquid, which is a soltjiol of pure phosphoric acid, or a hydrat of phosphoric acidl. When the liquor is treated with water in the same way, it furnishes likewise a thick fluid of the consistence of syrup, which crystallizes slowly by cooling, and forms transparent parallelopipedons. This substance has very singular properties: when it is heated pretty strongly in the air, it takes fire aid burns brilliantly, emitting -at the same time globules of gas thatinflam ne G u 08S Sir H. DAVY On some Combinations at the surface of theliquid. This substance may be called hydrophosphorous acid; for it consists of pure phosphorous acid and water. This is proved by the action of ammoniacal gas upon it; when it is heated in contact with ammonia, water is expelled and phosphite of ammonia formedd; and it is likewise shewn by the results of its decomposition in close vessels, which are phosphoric acid and a peculiar compound of phosphorus and hydrogen. Ten parts in weight of the crystalline acid I found produced about 8.5 parts of solid phosphoric acid, and the elastic product must of course have formred the remainder of the weight, allowing for a small quantity of the substance not decomposed. The peculiar gas is not spontaneously inflammable; but explodes when mixed with air, and heated to a temperature rather below 212'. Its specific gravity appeared from an experiment in which a small quantity of it only was weighed, to be to that of air nearly as 8.7 to too. Water absorbed about one-eighth of its volume of this gas. Its smell was disagreeable, but not nearly .so fetid as that of common phosphuretted hydrogene. When it was detonated with oxygene, it was found that three of it in volume absorbed more than five in volume of oxygene, and a little phosphorus was precipitated. When potassium was heated in contact with it, its volume increased rapidly till it became double, and then no further effect was produced. The potassium was partly converted into a substance having all the characters of phosphuret of potassium; and the residual gas absorbed the same quantity of oxygene by detonation as pure hydrogene. When sulphur of Phosphorus and Slphur, &c. 409 was sublimed in the gas over mercury, the volume was likewise doubled; a compound of phosphorus and sulphur ,was formed, and the elastic fluidd produced had all the characters of sulphuretted hydrogene. It appears from these experiments, that the peculiar gas consists of God of hydrogene in weight to 22.5 phosphorus; and its composition being known, it is easy to determine the composition of the hydrophosphorous acid, and likewise -the quantity-of oxygene required by a given quantity of phosphorous acid to be converted into phosphoric acid; for, for every volume of gas disengaged, a volume of oxygene must have been fixed in the phosphoric acid. And calculating for 174 grains, 30 parts-of oxygrene must be fixed iln the 1,5o parts of phosphoric acid, and 20 parts of phosphorus disengaged in combination with 4 parts-of hydrow gene; and on the idea of representing the proportions in which bodies combine by numbers, if hydrogene be considered -as unity and water as composed of two proportions of hydrogene, 2, and, one of oxygene 15,* phosphorus will be represented by go. When the compounds of chlorine and phosphorus are acted on by a small quantity of water, muriatic acid gas is disengaged with violent ebullition, the water is decomposed, and it is evident that for every volume of hydrogene disengaged in com-' bination with the chlorine, half a volume of oxygene must be combined with the phosphorus; and the products of the mu+ Supposing ioc cubical inches of the gas to weigh 27 grains.--27 _.5 the weight of zoo cubical inches of hydrogene = 22.5 grains. t This mode of estimation is the same as that I have adopted on a former occasion, except that the number representing oxygene is doubled to avoid a fractional part. 410 Sir H. DAVY on so ic combinations tual decomposition of water, and the phosphoric compounds of chlorine are merely the phosphoric acid from the sublimate and the phosphorous acid from the liquor, and muriatic acid gas; so that the quantity of phosphorus being the same, it is evident that phosphoric acid must contain twice as much oxygene as phosphorous acid, which harmonizes with the results of the decomposition of hydrophosphorous acid. For supposing water to be composed of two proportions of hydrogene, and one of oxygene, and the number representing it 17; then 174 parts of hydrophosphorous acid must consist of two proportions; 34 parts of water, and four proportions of phosphorous acid, containing 8o of phosphorus and 6o of oxygene; and three proportions of phosphoric acid must be formed, containing three proportions of phosphorus 6o, and six proportions of oxygene 9o, making 150. It is scarcely possible to imagine more perfect demonstrations of the laws of definite combination, than those furnished in the mutual action of water and the phosphoric compounds. No products are formed except the new combinations; neither oxy_ gene, hydrogene, chlorine, nor phosphorus is disengaged, and therefore the ratio in which any two of them combine being known, the ratios in which the rest combine, in these cases, may be determined by calculation. I converted phosphorus into phosphoric acid, by burning it in a great excess of oxygene gas over mercury in a curved glass tube, and heated the product strongly. I found in several processes of this kind, that for every grain of phosphorus consumed four cubical inches and a half of oxygene gas were absorbed; which gives phosphoric acid as composed of 20 of phosphorus to 3o.6 of oxygene; a result as near as can be expected to the of Phosphorus and Sulphur, &c. 4l I results of the experiments on the sublimate and the hydrophosphorous acid. Unless the product of the combustion of phosphorus is strongly heated in oxygene, the quantity of oxygene absorbed , ~ ~~~~~~~~ fo me ' as is less, so that it is probable that phosphorous acid is formed, as well as phosphoric acid. Phosphorous acid is usually described, in chemical authors, as a fluid body, and as formed by the slow combustion of phosphortis in the air; but the liquid so procured is, I find, a solution of a mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids. And the vapour arising from phosphorus in the air at common temperatures, is a combination of phosphorous acid and the aqueous vapour in the air, and is not, I find, perceived in air artificially dried. In this case, the phosphorus becomes covered with a white film, which appears to be pure phosphorous acid, and it soon ceases to shine. A solid acid, volatile at a moderate degree of heat, may be produced by burning phosphorus in very rare air, and this seems to be phosphorous acid free from 'water; but some phosphoric acid, and some yellow oxide of phosphorus, are always formed at the same time. The peculiar gas differs exceedingly from phosphoretted hydrogene formed by tone action of earths and alkalies and phosphor ruLs upon water; for this last gas is spontaneously inflanmmable, and its specific gravity is seldom more than half as great, and it does not afford more than i.5 its volume of hydrogene when decomposed by potassium; it differs in its qualities in different cases, and probably consists of different mixtures of hydrogene with a peculiar gas, consisting of 2 parts of hydrogene and 412 Sir H. DAVY On some Combinations 20 of phosphorus; or it must contain several proportions of hydrogene to one of phosphorus. I venture to propose the name hydrophosphoric gas for the new gas; and according to the principles of nomenclature, I have proposed in the last Bakerian lecture, the liquor containing 20 of phosphorus to 67 of chlorine may be called pbos. phorane, and the sublimatephosphorana. 3. Of some Combinations of Sulphur. I have shewn, in a paper published in the Philosophical Trans-actions for i8io, that sulphuretted hydrogene is formed by the solution of sulphur-in hydrogene, and I have supposed that sulphureous acid, in like manner, is constituted by a solution of sulphur in oxygene. There is always a little condensation of volume in experiments on the combustion of sulphur in oxygene; but this may fairly be attributed to some hydrogene loosely combined in the sulphur; and to the production of a little sulphuric acid by the mutual action of hydrogene, oxygene, and sulphur. It is only necessary, if these data be allowed, to know the difference between the specific gravity of sulphureous acid gas and oxygene, and sulphuretted hydrogene and hydrogene, to determine their composition. In the Philosophical Transactions for 18io, page 9 , I have somewhat under-rated the weights of sulphuretted hydrogene and sulphureous acid gasses: for I have since found, that the cubical inch measures, employed for ascertaining the volumes of gas weighed, were not correct. From experiments which I think -may be depended upon, as the weights of the gasses were merely compared with those of equal volumes of common air, I found that i oo cubical inches of sulphureous acid gias weighed 68 grains of Phosphorus and Sulphur, &c. 413 at meain temTperature and pressure, and ioo cubical, inches of sulphuretted hydrogene 6 grains, and the last result agrees very neatrly with one given by MM. GAY LuSSAC and THENARD, and one gained by my brother Mr. JOHN DAVY. if A, the weight of iGo cubical inches of oxygene gas, be subtracted fromn 68, it will appear that sulphureous acid consists of equal .weights of sulphur and oxygene, an estimation which agrees very nearly with onie given by M. BERZELIUS; and Jf, 2.57 the weight of ioo cubical inches of hydrogene be subtracted from ,6.5, the remainder 3j .23 will be the qpiantity of sulphur in the gas; and the. number representing sulphur may be stated as -3p and sulphureous acid as composed of one prprtion of sulpjur 30, and two of oxygene fop; and sulphuretted hydrogene as composed of one proportion of sulb phur, and two of hydrogene. From the experiments of, MM. GAY LUSSAC, it appears that sulphuric acid decomposed by heat affords one volume of oxygene to two of sulphureous acid: from this it would appear to be composed of one proportion of sulphur to three of oxygene. I have endeavoured, in several trials by common heat and by electricity, to combine sulphureous acid gas with oxygene, so as to form a sulphuric acid free from water, but without success; and it is probable, that three proportions of oxygene cannot be combined with one proportion of sulphur, except by the intermedium of water. Mr. DALTON has supposed, that there is a solid sulphuric acid formed by the action of sulphureous acid gas upon nitrous acid gas. But I find, that when dried sulphureous acid gas and nitrous acid gas are mixed together, there is no action; but by introducing the vapour of water, they form together a solid crystalline hydrat; which when thrown into MDCCCXI. 3 I 414 Sir H. DAVY o9 some Combinatzions water gives off nitrous gas, and forms a solution of sulphuric acid. I have referred, in the Philosophical Transactions, to the combination of chlorine and sulphur. I have been able ti form no compound of these bodies, which does not deposit sulphur by the action of water. When sulphur is saturated with chloe. rine, as in Dr. THOMSON'S sulphuretted liquor, it appears to contain, from my experiments, only 67 of chlorine to So of sulphur. 4. Some general Observations. It is a fact worthy of notice, that phosphoric and sulphur'c acids should contain the satne quintitv of oxvgene to the same quantity of inflammable matter; and yet that the oxygene should be combined in them, with such different degrees of affinity. Phosphorous acid has a great tendency to unite with oxygene, and absorbs it even from water: and sulphureous acid can only retain it when water is present. The relation of water to the composition of manv bodies has already occupied the attention of sorne distinguished che~mists, and is well worthy of being further studied; most of the substances obtained by precipitation from aqueous solutions are, I find, compounds of water. Thus zircona, magnesia, silica, wh n precipitated anl. dried at 21 2 still contain defitilite proportions of water. And many of the substances which have been considered as metallic oxides, t tat I have examined, obtained tro u solutions, agree in tais respect; and their colours and other properties are materially influenced by this combined water. I shall give an instance. The substance which has been called the white oxide of manganese is a compound of water atnd the of Phosphoruas and Sulphur, &cu 415 protoxide of manganese, and when heated strongly, it gives off its water and becomes a dark olive oxide. It has been often suspected, that the contraction of volume produced in the pure earths by heat, is owing to the expuisio3n< of water combined with them. The following fact seems to confirm this suspicion, and offers a curious phenomenon. Zircona, precipitated from its solution in muriatic acid by an alkali, and dried at a temperature below 3oc? appears as a white powder, so soft as not to scratch glass. When heated to 70Q? or 800, water is suddenly expelled from it, and notwitlit. standing the quantity of vapour formed, it becomes at the moment red hot. After the process, it is found harsh to the feel, has gained a tint of gray, its parts cohere together, and it is become so hard as to scratch quartz. 