(70) same, sent in a Letter from Father Camelli, to Mr. John Ray, and Mr. James Petiver, Fellows of the Royal Society. VII. An Account of a Stone found in the Stomach of a Lady on Dissection, another in the left Kidney, and some smaller ones in the Gall-Bladder. By Mr. William Clerk, Surgeon. Communicated by Dr. Charles Preston. VIII. Part of a Letter from Mr. Bussiere, to Dr. Sloane, wherein he gives an Account of the new way of Cutting for the Stone by the Hermit, with his Opinion of it. IX. The Extract of a Letter from Mr.Petto, concerning some Parelii, seen at Sudbury in Suffolk, December the 28th, 1698. Communicated by Dr. Beverley. I. A further Account of what was contain'd in the Chinese Cabinet, by Hans Sloane, M. D. A Sea-Horse Tooth. Cow-Bezoar. This was roundish, as big as a Hens Egg, made of Laminae, or Plates, one Layer on another, after the manner of true Bezoar, but melts when applied to the Candle, and therefore is not true, but factitious. A (71) A pair of Brass Tweezers. A round Metallick Speculum, used as a Looking-Glass, two in ches Diameter. A Malaya Purse made of Straw, Platted or Woven as are Straw-hats. Two Bone Probes. Four China Pencils, with these the Chinese write their Letters, as we do with Pens. One wide Tooth'd Comb of one piece of wood. One strait tooth'd Combe: Its Teeth are all distinct flat pieces of wood, sharp at both ends, set together and fastned to one another by two pieces of Reed, laid over their middles. An Instrument to clean the Combs, of three Teeth. Nux Vomica. Bamboo Stone. Books of China Leaf Gold, the Leaves of some of which are an Inch and half square, others four Inches. The Paper was of the ordinary China Paper, likely made of Silk or Cotton. The Chinese Guild Paper on one side with this leaf Gold, then cut it in long pieces, they then weave it into their Silks, which makes them, with little or no Cost, look very rich and fine. The same long pieces are twisted or turn'd about Silk Thread by them, so artificially, as to look finer then Gold Thread, tho' it be of no great value. A Sheet of brown Paper from China. This sort of brown Paper, which is smooth and thin, is made use of in lieu of Linnen Cloath or Rags, to spread Oyntments on, to apply to Sores, in the Hospitals in Paris. Two Steel Instruments for polishing Rasors, each of them crooked and two inches long. Semen (72) Semen Phaseoli Zurattensis, or Couhage, Rai hist. plant. used for Curing Dropsies. A great black Scarabaeus, a Scarlet Butterfly, an Ashcoloured Capricorn; a Locust, and a Phalaena, all to pieces. An Indian Hone, a blackish Colour. A China Hone like ours. An Indian Hone, to be used after the Stone, to smooth the points of Lancets, &c. this is made of a kind of white Wood, as light as touchwood. A Painters Brush, made of the Stalk of a Plant, the Fibres of which, at both ends, being fretted asunder and tyed together again, serve for a Brush. A Box of several kinds of China Ink, with Characters on them. It were to be wished other Travellers into Foreign Parts would make such enquiries (as Mr.Buckly, who sent these to the Royal Society has done) into the Instruments and Materials made use of in the places where they come, that are any manner of way for the Benefit or innocent delight of Mankind, that we may content our selves with our own Inventions, where we go beyond them, and imitate theirs wherein they go beyond ours. ~ II.An 