122 2 IX. On a new Properly of the Tangents of three Arches trisect-. ing the Circunmference of a Circle, by Nevil Maskelyne, D. D. F. R. S. and Astronomier Royal. Read February 18, Io88. MIR. WILLIAM GARRARD having shewn me a curious property of the tangents of the three angles of a plane triangle, or in other words, of the tangents of three arches trisecting a semicircle, in a paper which I have communicated to this Society, I was led to consider whether a similar property might not belong to the tangents of three arches trisecting the whole circumference; and, on examination, found it be so. Let the circumference of a circle be divided any how into three arches A, B, C; that is, let A + B + C be equal to the whole circumference. I say, the square of the radius multiplied into the sum of the tangents of the three arches A, B, C, is equal to the product of the tangents multiplied together. I shall demonstrate this by symbolical calculation, now comrmonly called (especially by foreign mathematicians) analytic calculation. It may be proper to premise, that the signification of the symbolical expressions of the tangents of an arc, whether with respnect to geometry or numbers, are to be understood according to their position as lying on one side, or the other slde of the radius, passing through the point of commencemient of the arc of the circle ; those tangents which belong to Dr. MASKELYNE on a new Property, &c. 123 the first or third quadrant of the circle being considered as positive, and those belonging to the second and fourth qtiadrant, being of a contrary direction, as negative; in liker manner as the sines 'in the first semi-circle are considered as positive, and in the second semi-circle as negative; and the cosines in the first and fourth quadrant are considered as positive, and in the second and third quadrants as negative; they lying, in the second case, on the contrary side of the diameter passing through the point of ninety degrees, to what they do in the former. Hence it easily follows, that the tangent of any arch and of its supplement to the wvhole circumference, or 36o degrees, are equal and contrary to one another, or the one negative of the other. Let t, U, w, be put for the tangents of the three arches A, B. C respectively, and r for the radius, and ? for the whole circumference. Then A + B + C = o , and C = o A+ B. By trigonmetry, t, r X t+U By trigonometry, t. A+ = r'-t it, and the tang. C = tang. (o A + B) = tang. A + B, by what has been said above. Therefore t,A+tB+tCor tt+w-t+u_.,rxt t X rX t + ; but t and u are the expressions for the tangents of A and B respectively, and is the expression for the tangent of C, or for w. Therefore, rP x t + it + zu, or thie square of the radius multiplied into the sum of the three tangents of A, B, and C = t it Lv, or the product of the tangents. ,?.E.D. 