(3088) An Accompt of some Books. 1. Beschriving der OOST INDISCHE KUSTEN, MALABAR COROMANDEL, CEYLON, &c. Door Philippus Baldaeus. T' Amsterdam 1672. in Fol. THe Author of this recent History, an active Dutch Minister, having lived many years in the East-Indies, especially in Ceylon, hath taken great pains to give an account not only of the late Civil Transactions of his Country-men and others in those parts (of most of which he hath been an Ey-witness;) but also of many of the Observables in Natural and Moral things in the same Countries. Being mindful of what belongs to our design in these Tracts, we shall but transiently touch, that in this Description are contained the Negotiations, Treatises, and ways of Trade of the Dutch there, both with the Indians and Europeans; together with many relations of what hath of late passed there, between the Dutch, English, Portugueses, Mores, &c. and of the acquests,which the Hollanders have there made in Lands, Towns and Strong places; all which, and many others, are here represented in very fair Cuts; such as are the Maps of the Coasts of Malabar and Coromandel, and of the Island of Ceylon; and the particular Cuts of Amadavat, Zuratte, Bombaja, Goa, Cranganor, Couchin, Coulang, Tutecorin, Negnapatan, Paliacatta, Masulipatan, and the representations of the principal Forts of Ceylen, as Batecalo, Gale, Columbo (the long and difficult siege whereof, together with its being taken by the Dutch from the Portugueses is here very largely described,) Negumbo, Manaar (a small Isle belonging to Ceylon) as also that considerable pen-insule, Jafnapatnam, lying within the same Ceylon; and may other less considerable places. But, to come to the Natural Observations, our Author taketh notice of the following particulars; scattered up and down in this Volume. 1. That in the Haven of Suratte, (being about 22 deg. Northern lat.) a Nord-Nord-East and a South-West Moon makes the highest water; p.12. 2. That the Elephants, made to fight with one another before the G.Mogol, manage the combat with a far greater agility and courage (3089) courage than one would imagine, and that they presently fall on, and desist according to the word given, embracing one another most lovingly with their truncks, as soon as they are commanded to end the combat; p.21. 3. That at Goa, lying in 16 deg. Northern Latitude upon an Isle, the Climat is very unwholesome, and subject to great mortality; though a place scituate for great Trade, which it manages with Pegu, Siam, Japan, Persia, Cambaja, Arabia, Malabar, Coromandel, Bengala, Achem, &c. p.79. 4. That on the Coast of Malabar the nights are very cold, and that there falls a great dew, especially in the months of January, Febr. and March,which is followed by intolerable heats in the day; as also, that the Land brises begin in the morning about 9 and 10 a clock,and the Sea-brises soon after Sun-setting. The Productions of that Country are chiefly Pepper, (which is of three sorts, black, whitish, and long,) Aloe, Cardemom, Ginger, some Saltpeter and Gumme-lack; as also Bezoar-stones, which are best at Cananor; likewise Mirabolans, Tamarines: That Pepper grows best in shadowy places; hath a weak stem, to be supported like Vines; having on each branch commonly fix clusters, each a foot long, in colour like unripe grapes; that they gather it, being green, in October and November, exposing it to the Sun to dry, whereby it grows black in a few days; p.99, 100, 101. 5. That at Cananor there are sometimes found Bezoar-stones, of the bigness not only of a Pigeons-Egg, (which may be had for fix or seven reals,) but also of that of a Hens-egg,for 12 reals a piece; p. 100. 6.That the way,there used,to discern a true Bezoar from a false one, is,either by pressing upon it a red-hot iron-bodkin,whence it will receive no harm, if genuine; or by weighing it, and then letting it lye in water a whole night; whereupon,if it keep its former weight 'tis a true one; if not, 'tis counterfait; ibid. 7. That at Cochin, the Capital of one of the Kingdoms of Malabar,the Tempestuous winds,there reigning in the winter-months, drive together abundance of clouds against the mountains,where having hung a while, they fall down at last with a sudden impetuosity in dreadful showers, carrying along with them store of earth and sands into the Sea, which are by the same,with certain winds, driven back again, and do obstruct the mouth of the River of that place; which yet is dis-obstructed again in the Sommer-season; p.115. 8. That (3090) 8. That most of the Inhabitants of Porca in the Country of Malabar have swollen Legs; ascribed to the brackish and Saltpetry-water,they must drink there; p. 143. 9. That the Nairos, (the Gentry of Malabar, and the Military men there) are from their youth, even from the seventh year of their age, disciplin'd to great agility of Body, by stretching their tender sinews,and anointing them with certain oyls and unguents, whereby they are disposed to wind and turn their body with extraordinary nimbleness any way,and to wrestle to admiration; p.144, 145. 10. That about Tutecoryn, in Malabar,is one of the three chief Pearl-fishings in the East-Indies, comprizing Manaar and Aripou, scituate between Comorin and Ceilon; the other two places for taking that rich commodity being Ormus in Persia, and Ainam on the coast of China. Further, that the Pearl-bearing Oysters are hard and tough, and not good to eat: That they must be dived for, 7, 8, 9, 10, fathoms deep; that all years do not equally yield Pearls, in regard that sometimes the Pearl-banks are cover'd with sand, and sometimes the Oysters are too small; that the Pearls of Tutecoryn and Manaar are inferior in goodness to those of Ormus, those being neither so white nor bright as these; p.151. 11. That at Tutecoryn, lying near Comoryn, there is a quite different season from the places scituate close to the North of that Cape; since, whereas from April to September it is Summer on the South of that Cape, 'tis then Winter on the North of the same,there blowing then strong winds on the one side of those mountains,and none on the other. The like of which is found upon several other coasts of the Indies, as also in some places of Africa; p. 152. 12. That the best stained clothes are made about Maliapour, to which a peculiar kind of water, springing there, is thought to be very conducive; p.159. 13. That between Penna and Caleture, North of Palecatta, on the coast of Coromandel, there grows the best Essaye; which is a small root, used in staining Indian Clothes with fixt colours. And that, to discern the best of the kind, it must be broken, and obseryed, whether it be of a deep red; besides, it is to be chaw'd, and, if found of a Nitrous taste, 'tis esteemed good. And to examine the sincerity of that colour,when the cloth is already stained with it, they rub it hard with the Juice of Limon, and so let it dry in (3091) in the Sun; whereupon the red colour will appear faded,if false. 14. That at Petapouli, near Masulipatan, on the same Coast, there grows another excellent Essaye, call'd Tambrevelle,yielding so high and intense a colour,that it must be mixed with the Essaye of Arrical or Ortacour, to qualifie its intensness. This is only in the power of the Governour of that place. 15. That the great Trafick in Diamonds and Rubies is at Masulipatan; that Diamonds are digg'd in the Countries of Golconda and Decan, behind Bengala, near the Town Bysilaga; the Prince whereof keeps a continual guard there, reserving for himself all such Stones as way above 25 Mangely's or Carats. The Old Rock is in the Country of Deyam, yielding the best Diamonds of all. Borneo likewise is famous for these Stones, and especially the Town Bangar Massing. Here the Author spends a whole Chapter in discoursing of all sorts of Gems, and the variety of each kind; together with the places of their growth, and the several ways of examining their goodness, and the measure of valuing them. See Chap. 24. p. 162. 16. That the Plant, which yields the Indigo, beareth a flower like that of Thistles, and a Seed like that of Faenum Graecum: That being first Sown, it holds out 3 years; the first year 'tis cut one foot high from the ground, and the leaves, stript from the stalks, are exposed to dry in the Sun for a day, and then for 4 or 5 days kept in round Tanks or Cisterns, filled with fair water, but brackish, with stones laid on them, and sometimes stirring the water. This water is let out into another Cistern, and there left a whole night; after which, two men, standing in the Tank, must labour with the arms, as if they were churning of Butter, till the water thickens; the substance of the Indigo being fallen to the bottom: which is then taken out, and being searsed through a fine Cloth, is thinly spread and laid in the Sun to dry; which maketh the fine Indigo. The second year, it grows up and is cut again, being,at least, as good as the Gyngy or wild Indigo; And,if you will have the Seed of Indigo, the stalks of it must be left to dry this time in the field, and then cut, and the Seed gathered. The third year, it is commonly of little force, and is used by the sole Natives for coloration; no Strangers caring for it: p. 170. 17. That the principal marks of good Indigo are, dryness, lightness, and swimming on water, yielding a high Violet-colour, and when put upon live coals, giving a Violet smoak, and leaving but I i i i few (3092) few ashes. That the Indigo-Merchant is to beware of buying moist Indigo, because he will then find, that in eight days time he looses 3 pound in 10; that the same is to try it in a cleer Sun-Shine, by breaking some lumps in pieces, and viewing them well, whether he can observe any thing in them that glistens; which if he does, he may be sure, that there is sand in it, with which it hath been sophisticated, to increase and gain by the weight. But for the greater assurance of the goodness of Indigo, pass the nail of your thumb over the broken pieces, and it will be of a Violetcolour, if it be good, and the higher that colour, the better the Indigo; p. 172. 18. That the best Indigo falls about Ayra, Fettapour, Bassaune, Kindawen, but especially at Byana; all places in the G.Mogols Dominions: Ibid. 19. That Thea is by the people of China esteem'd wholesomest when taken fasting,and without Sugar; that the Dutch use it much in India for health and chearfulness; that 'tis very diuretical, and opening the kidneys, and causing free respiration; that the best grows in the province of Kiangnan in China, about the Town Hocicheu; that,when good, the Leaves yield a very pleasing scent; that 'tis a Virgultum, and its leaves very like that, which is called Rhus Coriaria, or Sumach; that the Thea of China far excels that of Japan; p. 182. 20. The regiment of Life observ'd by discreet Hollanders in the East-Indies; ibid. 21. A Description of the Ganges and Nile; ib. 22. An ample Description of the Island of Coylon; p. 1. of the second part of this Volume. Its riches in several precious Stones, in Elephants, and principally in Cinnamon and Cardamom; ibid. 23. That the Dutch, upon their Mastering the Portugueses in Ceylon and Manaar, have restored the Pearl-fishing there, which had been a good while interrupted by the Wars between these Nations in those parts; p.150. 24. That the Coast of Manaar is rich in Fish; among which there are store of Caymans, and a kind of Sea-Calf, which is Amphibious, and yields Meat, not only far excelling that of Sturgeon, but also tasting like Veal; and that the Females of them have Milk in their Duggs; p. 152. 25. That, when in the Pen-insule of Jafnapatnam (a part of Ceylon,) and in the Isle of Manaar 'tis Winter and Rainy, 'tis at the same (3093) same time Summer in the rest of Ceylon, and on the contrary; that in the Plains of Ceylon there never blow but two sorts of Wind, North and South; but that about the higher parts of Columbo and Gale,&c. the Land-winds reign in the night, and the Sea winds in the day-time; p. 153. 26. That in Patiarapalli, one of the Provinces of Jafnapatnam, the Elephants by the strength of their Body bear down every year abundance of wild Palm-trees, when their fruit is ripe; p.170. 27. That in Paletiva, one of the small Isles near Jafnapatnam, the people catch the wild Horses there by chasing them into a Water-pool, and so mastering them with nooses: p.172. 28 That the Wild Elephants are by the same Females of the same kind as 'twere duckoy'd into a lodge with trap-doors, where by hunger, and long wakes, and the discipline exercised upon them by tame Elephants, they are at length tamed themselves. 29. That Ceylon abounds, besides Elephants and Wild Horses, with Buffalo's, Oxen, Cows, Sheep, Hoggs, Goats, Dear, Elks, Wild Bores, Tygers, Bears, Jackals, Apes, Peacocks, Nightingales, Larks, Snipes, Partridges, Pigeons, Geese, Crows, Kites, Owls, &c. Of the Jackals this Author faith, that they are so greedy after Mans flesh, that the Inhabitants are fain to keep their Dead from them by covering their Sepulchres with large stones. To which he adds, that their Flesh is very medicinal for a Consumption; p. 198, 199. 30. Than there are Serpents in Ceylon, which they call Sea-Serpents, 8,9, or 10 Ells long; (1 suppose he speaks of Dutch measure:) And others, that catch Mice and Rats, and do no hurt to Mankind: As also another sort, called Cobres Capellos, the most venomous of all, whose bite is said to be commonly cured by the Stone found in the head of the same Creature,laid upon the wound and purged in Milk. 31. That Ceylon affords divers sorts of Precious Stones, as Rubies, Saphirs, Topasses, Granats; and Mines also of Gold, Silver, and Iron, but that the Kings of the Island will not suffer the Royal Mettals to be digged up. 32. That the Commodities for Trade in Ceylon, are, Stained Stuffs, Silks, Porcelain, Spices, Camphire, Amber-gris, Radix Chinae, Amphion, Museus, Santal, Saltpeter, Sulphur, Lead, Copper, Tin, &c. So much for the Philosophical part of this Work: What concerns the particulars, relating to the proceedings of the Dutch in the East-Indies, as to their Trade there, and the Acquisitions they (3094) they have there made among the Natives, Portugueses,&c; as also what belongs to the Morals and the odd Religions of those Indian Heathens,I must refer the Reader to the Book it self. II. Antonii le Grand INSTITUTIO PHILOSOPHIAE, secundum Principia Renati Des Cartes; nova method~ adornata & explicata. Londini,apud J.Martyn,in Caemeterio D. Pauli,1672.~ 8~. THis Author hath with much industry and clearness laid together,in this small pocket volume, all the parts of the Ca~~esian Philosophy, to facilitate the study of the same to such as desire to instruct themselves in it. He begins with the Art of using Reason aright,and insists much upon this,that we are to devest our selves of the prejudices of our infancy, and to acknowledge nothing for Truth, but what we do clearly and distinctly understand; and then,that we ought to give or deny our assent to nothing but what exactly answers to such a clear perception and understanding of ours. And because all our knowledge is uncertain, as long as we are not sure of a Being absolutely perfect,from whom,as the First Truth, all verities do depend; he asserts the actual Existence of such a Being from the principles of Des-Cartes. Then since from this ground, that there is a God, by whose power all things are produced,and that cannot deceive us, we are certain that we cannot err in the things which we clearly and distinctly know, he infers, that, seeing we have clear and distinct I~ea's of Carporeal things,of which we are not the Causes,and which even occur often to us against our will, that, I say, those idea's proceed from things without us,that do truly and actually exist in the world; for else, saith ~e, if God should immediatly impress such conceptions upon our Minds,or cause them to proceed from an object,in which there were to be found nothing of Extension, Motion, Figure, &c. God could by no means be freed from deception. Whence it follows,according to our Author,that there is a Substance extended in length, breadth, and depth, call'd Body, the Object of Physicks Now, in these Physicks he excludeth all Substantial Forms from Body, and ascribeth all the Corporeal Effects of Nature to the various Size, Figure, Scituation, Motion and Rest of Bodies. And admitting, that a Material Substance consists in the said three (3095) three Dimensions, and is not really distinguish't from Quantity,he thinks, that'tis easie to demonstrate,there can be no Vacuum in Nature; that Rarefaction is not made but by an acquisition of new matter, &c. Here he treateth of Gravity, which he maketh to consist in this, that all the Subtile Matter, that is between Us and the Moon, being most swistly mov'd towards the Earth, driveth down such Bodies as are less swistly mov'd. He discourseth also at large of the Nature, Principle, and Laws of Motion; of Time, and Place; of Hardness and Fluidity; of Density and Rarity; of Asperity and smoothnes, &c. Moreover, he treateth of the Systeme of the Universe, endeavouring to demonstrate the Creation of the World by Natural Reason,and the Identity of the matter of Celestial and Terrestrial Bodies. Thence he proceeds to explicate the nature and motion of the Heavens, Planets, and other Celestial Bodies; as also the nature of Light, and Comets, &c. Which done,he treateth of the Earth,and asserts its Motion with some new arguments,as he thinks. Then he considers the productions within and under the Earth; the nature and effects of the Load stone; the Flux and Reflux of the Se; the nature of the Air and of the things generated therein, the nature of Fire; of Heat and Cold; of Thunder and Lightning,&c. After this he undertaketh the Explication of Man: And therein, First of the Body of Man, its parts and composition; where he maintains,that all the parts of the faetus are at first formed altogether in utero; and explains, How Nutrition is made; and how the Motion of the Heart, Arteries and Muscles,and the Circulation of the Bloud is performed. Then he goes on to the doctrine of Sensation, and, among many other particulars, endeavours to shew that the Human Soul receives nothing,but forasmuch as she a h her Seat in the Brain, Which done, he discourseth of Vision, and Colours, and of the rest of the Senses. Secondly,of the Soul of Man, whose Immateriality and Immortality he is asserting; whereas the soul of Brutes, in his opinion, is meerly Mechanical, and depends from nothing else but the disposition of the Organs and the Influx of Spirits. To this part he Joins the doctrine of the Passions peculiar to Man, and ascribable to him no otherwise than as he is a compound of Soul and Body. He concludeth with his Ethicks, and shews, wherein consists Man's supream Happiness, the nature of Vertue, and Free Will. III. An Essay to the Advancement of MUSI K: by Tho.Salmon,M. A London,1672 in 8~. THe design of this Essay is,to advance Masick by casting away the Perplexity of Different Cliffs, and Uniting all sorts of Musick,Lute,Viol Violin,Organ,Harpse-chord,Voice,&c. in one Universal Character. And to give the Reader the judgment of an able Master in this Art concerning this Tract,he may please to take that of Mr. John Bircheusha, as 'tis extant in the Preface thereof to the Reader,viz. Here is a well-design'd Epitome of Practical Musick: For, by this happy contrivance. the Cliffs, which were many, are reduced into an Universal Character; the various shifting of Notes in a Systeme or Staff of lines are fixed; the necessity of their Transpositions taken away: No that he that can Sing or Play any one Part,may sing or play all Parts; and he that shall know his distances in any one Part,may know them in all parts. The same Master declaring hereupon, that the benefit of this Essay will be so great to those who shall make use of it,that he knows not what to desire more advantagious for its acceptance,than an Experimental Tryal. Which herewith we recommend to the Ingenious, Lovers of this Art. Advertisement. WHereas Theon Smyruaeus,about 600 years since, had in a Greek Volume explicated all the Mathematical places in Plato,which Volume (as Blancanus in the end of his Appendix In Aristotelis loca Mathematica faith Josephus Auria long ago promised to publish out of the Vatican, by himself rendred into Latin; The Publisher of these Tracts,according to his engagement for the Resuscitation of obliging Antiquities, and for the Restauration and Advancement of the Liberal Arts,inquiring,what was performed therein, was assured by his Correspondent from Paris, the said Theon was there publish't some years ago by that Learned and Worthy person, Ismael Bullialdus,in Greek and Latin together. And now it is time to consult for the reprinting of Elancanus in Aristotelis loca Mathematica, corrected,and with careful emendations of his Mathematicorum Chronologia; That such as pretend to the great Names of Aristatle and Plato, may be invited by their authority and example,to learn those Noble Arts. We also hope, that those generous, spirits, who may have the help of good Libraries,will recover into publ ck light the best of Antient writers,illustrated by modern diligence,as we have Diophantus the Elements of Diophantus Alexandrinus his Algebra, with the Annotations of M. Fermat and M.Bachet &c. See N.72. The 