14< i.Th~nCv.MDCCiOXL-VL I g I/u _ ~~~~~~~~rig 3pfw. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~pa Ti 6.~p 6 Fisl-~~~~~~~~~;7 / v _ ., . ... . _ _ . _ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ......... ig i 6 g. . 4 /~~~~~~~p~n N' ,1, /;/ lt ..ay '/' 'E~~~~~~ig.6.p.2 ~~~~~~~:Fg.3 _ = _r_ I AA1313.S of Sfr-,w ( f (7 wb$' rp7?7T bmsh43dfffa~v N' , ,, , ec71p97a~a7, o 7WXa Q ig. 8.fr7f pAr1 -,~~~~~~a7y 7 IaA~,> 7m 1 '43 1 XII. Illustrations of the Viscous Theory of Glacier Motion. Part I. Containing Experiments on the Flow of Plastic Bodies, and Observations on the Phenomena of Lava Streams. By JAMES D. FORBES, Esq., F.R.SS. L. and E., Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Received March 15,-Read April 10, 1845. 1. Plastic Models. ? 2. Analogy of Glaciers to Lava Streams. Note on the Velocity of Lava. ? 1. Plastic Models. IN the concluding chapter of my " Travels in the Alps of Savoy," I have shown how the obscure relations of the parts of a semifluid or viscous mass in motion (such as I have attempted to prove that the glaciers may be compared to) may be illustrated by experiment. The larger models, these described and figured, showed very clearly the precise effects of friction upon the motion of such a nlass. They were formed of plaster of Paris, mixed with glue, and run in irregular channels, and the relative velocities of the top and bottom, thie sides and centre of such a pasty mass were displayed by the alternating layers of two coloured pastes, which were successively poured in at the head of the model valleys. The boundaries of the coloured pastes were squeezed by the mutual pressures into greatly elongated curves whose convexity was in the direction of motion; and in a vertical medial section, the retardation of the bottom and the mutual action of the posterior and anterior parts, shaped the bounding surface of two colours into a spoon-like form. Now these models convey a very palpable commentary upon the effects of friction on a plastic mass, and likewise on the influence of the mutual pressures of its parts; but in further illustration of the same thing I constructed another model, only executed as the printing of my volume approached its close, and which is cursorily described in a long note (page 377) *, whence its real importance may perhaps have been pretty generally overlooked. The models in question, of whichI have since made many, are formed by acco.mulating in one end of a long narrow. box, AB, Plate IV. fig. 1, a deep pool of the viscid -* In} this paper reference is of course made to thev first edition of my "Travels," the second not having been then published. MDCCCXLvrI. Ur 144 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. material already mentioned, which is retained there by a sluice or partition C which may be withdrawn at pleasure. The surface of the pool abed is then pretty thickly dusted over -with a coloured powder, and the sluice is withdrawn. 0 The pasty mass subsides slowly, under its own weight into the lengthened form efgh. The film of colour on the surface is therefore broken up so as to cover three or four times the surface it did at first; and its new distribution marks the lines of greatest separation of the superficial particles of the mass. The appearance of such a model when run is shown in fig. 2, and it manifests in the plainest manner the twofold tendency to separation in such a case where the channel is narrow and confined, and there is a certain mass of matter in front. Plate V. shows a more accu rate drawing taken from such a model. The lines of sliding separation occur most distinctly marked near the sides, where the friction is greatest, and the central parts are forced past the lateral parts, on account of the less embarrassed and consequently swifter motion of the centre; and they incline to the centre although the breadth of the channel be perfectly uniform. But the forces which tear asunder the parts (when such exists) act perpendicularly to the former and produce dislocations and fissures, which perfectly correspond to the direction and appearance of the crevasses of a glacier, that is, they are convex upwards or towards the origin of the glacier. It is the former of these lines of separation, or djffrrential motion, which constitute and trace out with an exact parallelism the veined structure which I have described as forming the normal structure of all true glaciers. Plate V. is a-representation of a very beautiful plaster model of more consistence than the other, in which the swelling of the surface and the direction of thIe open cracks produced by direct thrusts are most beautifully shown; and are even more so in the model than in the engraving. The fissures are transverse and slightly convex to the origin in the higher part of the glacier, then gradually turning round they radiate from a centre in the lower part, exactly as in the glacier of Arolla (Travels in the Alps, Plate VI.), and in all similar cases. The experiment above detailed was suggested to me by studying the ripple of streams of water, which appear to have the same origin: and in very weak currents moving through very smooth and uniform channels (as the chiseled sides of water conduits) the same may be made manifest by throwing a handful of light powder on the surface, which then becomes divided into threads of particles inclined in the manner I have described at a certain angle from the side towards the centre, depending on, the velocity of the stream.. The slightest prominence of any kind in the wall of such a conduit, a bit of wood or tuft of grass is sufficientl to produce a well-marked ripple-streak, from the side towards the centre., depending upon the sudden and violent retardation of the lateral streamlets and the freer central ones being momentarily edged away from them. The general course of the motion of the particles is., however, scarcelyaffected -by 5: S~b's 4 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P Jt/Z. Iharc. IMDCCCXLVI. P1ALffp f9W in -iAtiP ~~~Ara m1 ==|rVW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I~ek PLASTIC MODELS. 145 such a circumstance, for the differential velocities which cause the rippleand the separation, are always small compared to the absolute velocity of the stream; and thus a floating body on the water (just as the moraine on theglacier) perseveres in its course parallel to the side with scarcely any perceptible disturbance. When however the descent is .violent and the fr iction great, floating. bodies are graduallv drawn towards the centre, and this happens also in exactly the same circumstances to the moraine of the glacier. Plate IV. figs..3 and 4, shows the relation of the ripplemarks to the channel of a verv flat smooth gutter in one of the side streets of Pi~sa, sketched after heavy rain. These ripple-marks in water are well seen near the piers of a bridge, or when, a post is inserted in a stream and makes a fan-shaped mark in the water cleft by it: such marks have been much neglected by writers on hydraulics; but in one of the most ancient hydraulic treatises, that of LEONARDO DA VINCI, lately printed fiom. the MS. in the Italian collection of writers on hydraulics, they are very well described and figured. A case parallel to the last-mentioned, where a fixed obstacle cleaves a descending stream and leaves its trace in, the fanshaped tail, is well seen in several glaciers, as in that at Ferpecle, and the Glacier de Lys on the south side. of Monte Rosa, particularly the last, where the veined structure follows the law just mentioned. And I desire here to record that the views just presented as to the origin of the veined structure of ice, were confirmed, but were not suggested, by the experiments on viscous fluids just mentioned. The necessity of the tearing up of a solid mass, if it moved at all in a bed presenting insurmountable resistances on all sides, in directions such as the veined structure presents, was foreseen by me whilst dwelling amongst the glaciers themselves, at a distance from, books or the means of experiment. The following extract firom. my Third Letter to Professor JAMESON, written in *1842 from the remote village of Zermatt, contains the substance of all that I have since developed and illustrated at greater length and in different ways rather to meet the difficulties of others, than to confirm what was plainly fixed in my own mind. "The glacier struggles between a condition of fluidity and rigidity. It cannot obey the law of semi-fluid progression (maximum velocity at the centre, which is no hypothesis in the case of glaciers, but a fact), without a solution of continuity perpendicular to its sides. If two persons hold a sheet of paper so as to be tense, by the four corners, and one move two adjacent corners, whilst the other two remain at rest or move less fast, the tendency will be to tear the paper into shreds parallel to the motion; in the glacier the fissures thus formed are filled with. percolated water, which is then frozen. It accords with this view,-lst, that the glacier moves fastest in the centre, and that the loop of the curve described coincides (by observation) with the line of swiftest motion. 2nd. That the bands are least distinct near the centre, for there the difference of velocity of two adjacent stripes parallel to the length of. the glacier is nearly nothing; but near the sides, where the retardation is greatest, it is a maximum. 3rd. It accords w-ith direct observation that the differu 2 146 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. ence of velocity of the centre and sides is greater near the lower extremity of the :glacier, and that the velocity is more nearly uniform in the higher part; this corresponds to the less elongated forms of the loops in the upper part of the glacier. 4th. In the highest part of such glaciers, as the curves become less bent the structure also vanishes. 5th. In the wide saucer-shaped glaciers which descend frorn mountain slopes, the velocity being as in shallow rivers nearly uniform across their breadth, no vertical structure is developed. On the other hand, the friction of the base determines an apparent stratification, parallel to the slope down which they fall. 6th. It also follows immediately (assuming it as a fact very probable, but still to be proved, that they deepest part of the glacier moves slower than the surface) that the frontal dip of the structural planes of all glaciers diminishes towards their inferior extremityv where it approaches zero, or even inclines outwards, since then the whole pressure of the semi-fluid mass is unsustained by any barrier, and the velocity varies (probably in a rapid progression) with the distance from the soil; whilst nearer the origin of the glacier the frontal dip is great, because the mass of the glacier forms a virtual barrier in advance, and the structure is comparatively indistinct, for the same reason that the transverse structure is indistinct, viz. that the neighbouring horizontal prisms of ice move with nearly a common velocity. 7th. Where two glaciers unite, it is a fact that the structure immediately becomes more developed. This arises from the increased velocity, as well as frictionr of each due to lateral compression. 8th. The veined structure invariably tends to disappear when a glacier becomes so crevassed als to lose horizontal cohesion, -as when it is divided into pyramidal masses. Now this immediately follows from our theory; for as soon as lateral cohesion is destroyed, any determinate inequality of motion ceases; each mass moves singlv, and the ;structure disappears very gradually* In explaining the theory of the veined structure at a meeting of the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the 20th of March 1843, I stated that I had arrived at the conclusion that crevasses resulting from tension in certain parts of a glacier, must be formned at right angles to the surfaces of discontinuity or structural veins where they intersect the surface: a law conformable to the empirical one discovered by me on the glacier of the Rhone in 1841f, since generalized in other cases, and which even the adversaries of my theoretical views have admitted to be a correct statement of the facts+. My attention was -at that time (March 1843) turned by my learned and acute friend Mr. W. A. CADELL, to the veined structure of the slag of iron furnaces as; due to the difference of velocity of the parts producing surfaces of separation and peculiar molecular condition. The transition was easy to the case of volcanic rocks and lava* Third Letter on Glaciers, Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, October 1842. t Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January 1842. + Biblioth que Universelle, tome xliv. p. 153. "C'est en effet un fait assez general que les bandes bleues coupent a angle droit le-s crevasses," &c. -ANALOGY OF GLACIERS TO LAVA STREAMS. 147 streams, and this case was pressed on my attention by an unexpected journey which I soon after undertook to Italy and Sicily. ? 2. Analogy of Glaciers to Lava Streams. There is something pleasing to the imagination in the unexpected analogies presented by a torrent of fiery lava and the icy stream of a glacier. But when we look upon the comparison historically and critically, and find how generally this analogy has been perceived and adverted to by persons of very different views and talents of observation, we are strongly tempted to suspect that some latent cause confers the marked resemblance. This cause I of course consider to be the laws and condition of their motion, the struggle of a semin fluid mass of enormous weight creeping down a mountain side, in which fluidity and solidity are so curiously combined, that we should be at a loss in either case how to name it; a straining, crackling, splintering solid, heaved on by the internal energy of the latent fluidity which pervades it, and which at last succeeds in giving to the general character of the motion and -the moving mass, those of fluid bodies subject to the law of gravity; whilst the parts, themselves almost rigid, have that rigidity most fantastically subjected to the action of the dominant principle. In illustration of what has now been said, I shall quote passages from some authors which, without particular research, have come under my notice expressive of the analogy just mentioned. Mrs. STARKE, the author of a well-known guide book of Italy, published many years ago, speaks of having seen near the crater of Vesuvius in 1818, "five distinct streams of fire issuing from two mouths, and rolling wave after wave slowly down the mountain with the same noise (?) and in the same manner as the melting glaciers roll into the valley of Chamouni; indeed this awful and extraordinary scene would have brought to mind the Montanvert, had it not been for the crimson glare and excessive heat of the surrounding scorin*." Mr. AULDJO, an intrepid alpine traveller, writing about Vesuvius, in 1832, says, "The field of lava in the interior of the crater, inclosed within a lofty and irregular b)ank, might be likened to a lake whose agitated waves had been suddenly petrified; and in many respects resembles the Mers de Glace, or level glaciers of Switzerland, although in its origin and materials so very differentt." And the view in the same work of " streams of lava on the south-east of the cone" presents a perfect analogy to a glacier bearing on its surface three medial and two lateral moraines. Captain BASIL HALL, writing of Vesuvius at a, later' period, uses these remarkable expressions whilst describing an eruption of lava:-" The colour of this stream was a brilliant pink), nuch brighter at the sides than in the middle, where either from the cooling of the surface, or the accumulation of cinders and broken pieces of stone, a* STARICE's Traveller's Guide, Ninth Edition, p. 293. 1 AULDJO's Sketches of Vesuvius, p. 10, published 1833. 148 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS -THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. sort of dark ridge or backbone was visible from end to end, not unlike the moraine on the top of a glacier. This reminds ine of a curious analogy which often struck me, between two objects so dissimilar as a glacier and a lava stream. They are both, more or less, frozen rivers; they both obey the law of gravitation with great reluctance, being essentially so sluggish, that although they both move along the bottoms of valleys with a force well nigh irresistible, their motion is sometimes scarcely perceptible*." This remarkable passage, worded with the usual scrupulous care of the author, combined with his account of the mechanism of a glacier in the description of the glacier of Miage in the same work, show that he had arrived at more correct notions on the subject than any of his contemporaries ; notions which chiefly required careful observation to give them the force of demonstration. The allusion to moraines as characteristic of lava streams as well as glaciers, in the preceding extract, is perfectly borne out by the view of the lava of 1831 given by Mr. AULDJO and already cited; the same appearance is mentioned by M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT in his account of Etna in the following terms: cUne des circonstances que les coule'es de lava prdsentent le plus invariablement * * * * consiste en ce que chaque coul6e est flanqu6e de part et d'autre par une digue de scories accumulees qui rapellent par sa formee la moraine d'un glacier, * * * souvent aussi les coul6es.pr6sentent de pareilles digues vers leur milieu, lorsqu'elles sont partagees en plusieurs courants distincts coulant l'un a cot6 de l'autret." In another place the same author compares the movement -of the upper crust of the lava to that of glaciers according to the then prevalent theory:-" L';corce supericure d'une coulee separec de l'Ccorce inf6rieure et du sol sousjacent par une certaine 6paisseur de lave liquide, ou du moins visqueuse, se trouve dans un 6tat comparable a celul d'un glacier, qui, ne pouvant adherer au sol sousjacent a cause de la fusion continuelle de sa couche inf6rieure, se trouve contraint de glisser+." Finally, M. RENDU, Bishop of Annecy, in his excellent Essay on Glaciers, refers in one passage (and I believe in one only) to the possible analogy with a lava stream, c[e glacier] s'affaisse-t-il sur lui-mrnme pour couler le long des pentes comme le ferait une lave a la fois ductile et liquide??" The following considerations seem to show more than a general external analogy between lava streams and glaciers. Their velocities are sometimes equally slow. Although common lava is nearly as liquid as melted iron, when it issues from the orifice of the crater, its fluidity rapidly diminishes, and as it becomes more and more burdened by the consolidated slag through which it has to force its way, its velocity of motion diminishes in an almost* Patchwork, by Captain HALL, vol. iii. p. 118, published 1841. t ,Recherches sur le Mont Etna, p. 184. Published in the Memoires pour servir a une D6scription GOologique de la France, tome iv. 1838. + Ibid. p. 177. 5 Th6orie des Glaciers, Mm. -de I'Acad6mie de Savoie, tome x. p. 93, published 1841. ANALOGY OF GLACIERS TO LAVA STREAMS. 149 inconceivable degree, and at length, when it ceases to present the slightest external trace of fluidity, its movement can only be ascertained by careful and repeated ohservations, just as in the case of a glacier. In November l843, 1 watched lava issuing rapidly froin a small mouth in the crater of Vesuvius at the rate of about one foot in a second. The eruption of Etna in 1832 advanced at the rate of five wiles in two days, which is at the rate of one foot in about six seconds*. We may contrast with this the eruption of Etna in 1614, which yielded a lava which advanced -but two miles in ten years according to DOLOMIEUt, during the whole of which time its motion was sensible. This gives a mean rate of rather more than three feet per day; but at the conclusion it was no doubt much slower. Mr. SCROPE+ saw the lava of 1819 in the Val del Bove moving down a considetable slope at the rate of a yard a day, nine months after its eruption. It had, he adds, the appearance of a huge heap of rough cinders; its progression was marked by a crackling noise due to friction and straining, and "on the whole was fitted to produce any other ideathan that of Jfuidity. In fact," he continues, " we must represent to ourselves the mode in which the crystalline particles of lava move amongst one another, rather as a sliding or slipping of their plane surfaces over each other, facilitated by the intervention of the elastic (?) fluid, than as the rotatory movement which actuates the molecules of most other liquids." It is generally conformable to this view that we find in HAMILTON'S Campi Phlegrwei (fol. 1. 38. Note) the curious remark that some lava is so incoherent, or whilst fluid has so little viscosity, that in issuing from the volcano (Vesuvius) it has appeared '"farinaceous, the particles separating as they forced their way out, just like meal coming from under the grindstones." From all this it is quite clear that the seeming rapidity of the parts of a glacier, or the slowness of its motion, cannot be taken as the slightest evidence of its moving otherwise than as a fluid, contending with the rigor of the parts which include and resist the moving force, which is truly hydrostatic though limited in its exercise. It is manifestly futile and unphilosophical to seek one cause of motion in 'a lava which, like that of Vesuvius in 1805 must have described as many hundred feet in a minute as that of 1614 from Etna probably did in a year?; for the mean daily motion of the latter during ten years was three feet; but toward the end of that time it must evidently have had for a long period an average motion of one-half or onequarter of this, and therefore below the observed mean movements of certain glaciers. Fluidity, in the first instance as in the second, was the propelling vehicle or manner in* E. DE BEAUMONT, Recherches sur le Mont Etna. -f' Quoted by E. DE BEAUMONT, p. 85. The original is in the Journal de Physique, vol. iv of the New Series, where it is mentioned that the same slowness of motion has been observed in lavas of Vesuvius. FERRARA (Descrizione del Etna. Palermo, 1818) denies this statement, but not I think on sufficient grounds. + On Volcanoes, p. 102. ? See Note on the Velocity of Lava Streams at the end of this paper. 150 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. which gravity acted, and this is a sufficient answer to any attempt to maintain that the plasticity of a glacier is a collateral but not a primary cause of motion,-a distinction surely without a difference.. As in the case of all imperfect fluids, the central and superficial particles move faster than the lateral and inferior ones'; and when the fluidity is exceedinglq imperfect, as in those long-flowing lavas, there must be a rupture of continuity between the parts to permit themn to slide and jostle past one another. rrlTis is evidently the cause of the noise referred to by Mr. SCROPE and other writers. This tearing up of the stream into longitudinal stripes, occasioned by the varying velocity of the parts, is thus described by M. DUFRENOY in his account of Vesuvius: c"La plupart des coulees pr6sentent des bandes longitudinales assez parall~les entre elles: ces larges stries saillantes sur la surface sont les traces du mouvement de la lave qui ne s'avance pas d'une seule piece, mais par bandes parallbles*." And M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT describes awlava stream at Etna in these terms: "La surface offrait de profondes cannelures parallles entre elles, dirig6es dans le sens du mouvement qui l'avoit d6versee A lext6rieur et qui 6taient crois6es par de nombreuses gergures transversalest." Here then is evidently the twofold system of rents and perpendicular fissures described in the commencement of, this paper as being found in the models, and as being conformable to the phenomena of glaciers. During the winter 1843-44 which I spent in Italy, I had an opportunity of testing these resemblances, and tracing others to glaciers in the lavas of Vesuvius and Etna. I entered on the inquiry with a very jealous care of being drawn into the admission of fanciful or imperfect analogies; and I shall confine myself to the statement of one or two most plain and undeniable confirmations, selected fromn the results of many fatiguing ram bles. The plastic nature of the viscous lavas of Vesuvius and Etna is such as well might obliterate any internal traces of rents due to differential velocity, which, in the mass, are speedily closed and reunited as in a stream of treacle, or in the plaster models before explained, where the interior is homogeneous and the superficial coating above is permanently dislocated. In lavas the indescribable ruggedness of the surface very generally prevents any record of the gentler play of forces. The following facts appear to me quite conclusive as to the manner in which a mass partially solidified, yet moving as a fluid, is torn up by the interior forces which act upon it. 1. At Vesuvius, the Fossa delta Fetrana between the Hermitage and Monte Somma, is a valley lined with the lava of 1751. I here observed that the lava was in some places detached from the wall of the valley, leaving a (:avity on the sheltered side of -a projecting elbow of rock, -just as a glacier does in similar circumstances, showing the considerable consistence which the lava possessed.* DUFIRENOY sur les Environs des Naples, p. 324. t E. DE BEAUMO r, P. 38. ANALOGY OF GLACIERS TO LAVA STREAMS. 151 In the upper part of this Fossa the lava has a distinct linear structure where broken, in shells parallel to the sides, whose thickness varies from one-third of an inch upwards. The position of these surfaces of dislocation is indicated (for illustration) in figure 5 of Plate IV. 2. In the vast lava wastes of Etna, we encounter not only a greater extent of surface, but a greater variety of condition as to cohesion of the lava streams, and the slope down which it has descended, and thus we have a better chance of meeting with specimens of the manner in which the semi-solid crust of a lava stream is torn up and crevassed by the effect of gravity compelling it into the circumstances of fluid motion. From this tendency of all lavas to form slags, and of these slags to be splintered, tossed, and rernoulded by the action of the still liquid portion of the stream below or around, not one-thousandth of the surface bears marks of the simple condition of fluidity under which it was originally mnoulded, and though when viewed from a distance, and in. connexion with the form of the ground over which it has plassed, we see plainly enough that it has flowed like a stream, the absence of any trace of easy undulating forms which characterise fluids or plastic masses, give to the sciarre of Etna (the cheires of Auvergne) an appearance far more removed from pristine fluidity than the glacier masses of Switzerland. In traversing many miles of lava wastes between Nicolosi and Zafarana, on the eastern slope of Etna, I met with one singularly favourable specimen of a branch of a stream consolidated exactly as it had moved, and undisturbed afterwards. It is the part of the current of 1763, called Lava delle Cerve. The branch stream in question mav be ten yards wide, and presents a thin crust, which has floated on the viscid lava below, and which, while yet imperfectly solidified, has been urged to move with the rest of the stream, and has undergone a process of division and lending accordingly. The stream has flowed in the direction from left to right in figure 6. The lateral parts PP, QQ have been literally torn to pieces longitudinally (as I wrote on mny note-book on the spot) by the multiplied rents which showed the dislocation of the quicker moving central from the lateral parts, and these rents inclined towards the centre of the stream in the direction in which it moved. The length of the stream was divided by transverse rents strikingly convex towards the origin of the stream, as shown in the same figure. These cracks were marked by another peculiarity; the cake of floating scoria had not only been cracked across but pushed upwards, generally forwards and upwards, before it was finally included in the cooling mass of the stream; the result was the arrangement shown inl the longitudinal section, fig. 7S, which it will be seen resembles the tiling of a house, only that the fractured parts do not always overlap, but the anterior edge is tilted upwards. It will thus be seen that this tendency to separation acts also inl the vertical plane, and the dotted lines aa', bb', &c. indicate the direction of its action, coinciding with the surfaces of differential motion, which produce what I have called the frontal dip of the veined structure of thie ice of glaciers. AiMD CcCX LVI.X 152 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. 3. At no great distance from this lava, and near the foot of the hillock called the Serra Pizzuta, between the last-named point and the valley of Tripodo, I observed a transverse section of a lava stream exhibiting an arrangement in bands or plates, nearly parallel to the side of the current, but inclining towards the centre. 4. Between Zafarana and the Porta Calanna (Etna), a remarkably pretty illustration occurs in the surface of an old lava stream, worn and polished by the action of a brook. Where the lava has had to turn an abrupt corner of a rock, A, figure 8 (which represents a ground plan), the progress of the lava being violently checked by the resistance of the projecting mass, has been torn up into longitudinal shreds, which from imperfect fluidity have not reunited, but have left open cavities of the form represented in the figure, which exhibit with remarkable fidelity the forms of the fissures with which glaciers are sometimes traversed, when they are subjected to sudden transitions in their states of motion (as in the glacier des Bossons at Chamouni), and which coincide in direction with the veined structure, and pass into it by imperceptible gradations. 5. What I have called the frontal dip of the veined structure in glaciers*, I have explained by the accumulation of a sluggish mass of considerable extent upon a floor or bed offering the resistance of intense friction; in consequence of which the mass of ice, urged downwards and forwards by its intense weight, being resisted by the friction of that which immediately precedes it, must yield in the direction of least resistance, or squeeze itself in a slanting direction forwards and upwards, and thus sliding over the resisting mass immediately in front, will produce surfaces of discontinuity or differential velocity in that direction. Such a result I inferred from general principles without reference to any particular example, and the explanation of the superficial convexity of the lower part of many glaciers was evidently satisfactorily explained by it. The convex swelling form of a viscous stream will depend principally upon the relative measure of two quantities, the stiffness or viscosity of the fluid, and the inclination of the surface; although it will also depend on the part of the stream, whether near the origin or the termination, which we consider. I have found this variation from concave to convex, depending upon circumstances, alike in glaciers and lava streams. Some very highly inclined small glaciers existing at considerable heights, and therefore very hard and consistent, are, nevertheless, deeply concave from end to end, the slope compensating for the stiffness of the matter; such is a beautiful glaciers named, as far as I can learn, La Gria, or Glacier de Bourget, which descends fromn the Aiguille de Gout6 towards the valley of Chamouni. See Plate IV. fig. 9. Many, perhaps mnost, lava streams, where they have well-determined banks, are concave during the longer part of their course, but towards their termination they* See my Travels in the Alps, 1st Edit. pp. 167, 376, and letter to Dr. WrnFWFLL in JAMESON'S Journal, Oct. 1844. ANALOGY OF GLACIERS TO LAVA STREAMS. 153 become convex as their viscosity increases. Nevertheless, I have seen portions of well-bounded streams decidedly convex. The appearance of the termination of a lava stream approaches strikingly that of a glacier. But this is much more than a vague analogy, and the accounts of faithful eye-witnesses prove the resisted motion of the doughy stream to be such as I anticipated. We find it explicitly stated over and over again in the writings of DOLOMIEU* and DELLA TORRE t (and more particularly by the latter), that when a lava stream meets with any obstacle in front which checks its course, or when its course is checked by its own sluggishness, the stream swells, and gains gradually in thickness by the fluid pressure from behind urging its particles forwards and upwards. So striking was this natural effect of semi-fluid pressure, that these old observers attributed it to a peculiar force developed in the lava, of the nature of " fermentation," producing intumescence, the only way by which they could account for the vertical rise of the fluid, although it was very evident that the result was only what might be expected from the nature of the lava. It was also observed that when the lava stream had thus attained a certain height, it began to move on again, the necessary result of the increased hydrostatic pressure, although attributed by the authors named to the heat developed-by chemical action. The tenacity with which the idea was long adhered to, that the residual fluidity of a nearly cooled lava stream was insufficient to account for its progress, without attributing to it the qualities of a second volcanic focuIS, are curious proofs of how long a palpable cause may be rejected as insufficient to explain a phenomenon, and a totally imaginary one supetadded+. I may add, that lava streams sometimes push their extremities up hill?; glaciers dlo the same. In addition to the considerations already stated, which illustrate the viscous theory of glaciers, I am glad to avail myself of two which have reached me fromn independent and impartial sources. rThe first is by Mr. DARWIN, who in a small book on " Volcanic Islands," published about the time that I was engaged in making the preceding observations on Etna and Vesuvius, pointed out in a very clear manner the explanation which the veined structure of glaciers lends to that of volcanic rocks belonging to the Trachytic and Obsidian Series, where the lamination, instead of being obscure and rare, as it generally is in the Augitic lavas, owing perhaps to their greater fluidity, and more viscid and homogeneous texture, is the general rule. "The most probable explanation," says Mr. DARWIN, "of the laminated structure of these felspathic rocks* Papers in the Journal de Physique. t Histoire du Vesuve. Naples, 1771, 8vo, p. 207-9, and several other places. + See the view of the termination of a lava stream in Auldjo's Sketches of Vesuvius, facing p. 92. The eader may also compare the view of a grotto in the lava, in the same work, with that of the source of the Arveiron, in my Travels, p. 387. ? HAMILTON, Campi Phlegreei, folio, vol. i. p. 40, note.x 2 154 PROFESSOR FORBES ON THE VISCOUS THEORY OF GLACIER MOTION. appears to be that they have been stretched whilst flowing slowly onwards in a pasty condition, in precisely the same manner as Professor Forbes believes that the ice of moving glaciers is stretched and fissured. In both cases the zones may be compared to the finest agates; in both they extend in the direction in which the mass has flowed, and those exposed on the surface are generally vertical*." The other illustration is contained in a communication with which I have been favoured by Mr. GORDON, Ptofessor of Civil Engineering in Glasgow, and which has been printed in the Philosophical Magazine for March 1845, to which therefore I may refer. I need only state at present that it demonstrates, from observations on the flow of Stockholm pitch with a speed wholly insensible, and which requires some months for its accomplishment even in small masses, that a motion, of the nature of fluid motion, takes place at temperatures at which the pitch remains so hard as to be fragile throughout, and presents.angular fragments with a conchoidal fracture. Mr. GORDON adds, that the resistance of the pitch to its own forward motion produces bands of differential velocity and having thefrontal dip. Edinburgh, February 26, 1845. Note on the Velocity of Lava, referred to in p. 149. The following are a few facts which I have collected on the velocity of lava. That of Vesuvius in 1805 appears to be the most fluid on record. VON BUCH, who was in company with MM. DE HUMBOLDT and GAY-LussAc, describes it as shooting suddenly before their eyes from top to bottom of the cone in one single instantt, which must correspond to a velocity of many hundred feet in a few seconds without interpreting it literally. MELOGRAMI, quoted by BREISLAK+, says it described three miles in four minutes, or about seventy-five feet per second at a mean. The same lava, when it reached the level road at Torre del Greco, moved at the rate of only eighteen inches per minute, or three-tenths of an inch per second ?. The lava of 1794 (Vesuvius) reached the sea, a distance of 12,961 feet, in six hours, or passed over one-third of a mile per hour, or eight inches per second j; whilst the lava of Etna, in 1651, described sixteen miles in twenty-four hours, or above a foot per second the whole way. That of 1669 (Etna), which destroyed Catania, described the first thirteen miles of its course in twenty days, or at the rate of 162 feet per hour, but required twenty-three days for the last two miles, giving a velocity of twenty-two feet per hourf; and we learn from DoLo-* DARWIN on Volcanic Islands, 1844. The whole passage, pp. 65-72, illustrates this analogy. t Bibliothbque Britanique, vol. xxx. The vertical height of the cone proper is 700 or 800 feet; the length of the slope may therefore be 1300 feet. $ Institutions Gdologiques, iii. 142. ? NICHOLSON'S .Journal, vol. xii. 1 BREISLAK, Campanie, i. 203. ?f FERRARA, Desor. del Etna, p. 105. This appears from the dates, though at variance with one assertion of the author. ANALOGY OF GLACIERS TO LAVA STREAMS. 155 MIEU, that this same stream moved during part of its course at the rate of 1500 feet an hour, and in others took several days to cover a few yards*. The lava of 1753 (Vesuvius), starting with a velocity of 2500 feet per hour, soon diminished to sixty feett, as did that of 1754 to the same+; and of 1766 to thirty feet per hour?. The lava of 1831 (Vesuvius) moved over 3600 feet in twenty-six hours, and finally advanced steadily at the rate of ten feet an hour jj. The lava of Etna of November 1843, is said to have moved over three paces per second at the distance of a mile from the crater. The stream of 1761 (Vesuvius), before it stopped flowing, advanced but three yards a day?; and that of 1766, which continued moving for about nine months, moved over but a small space in that time. Had the attention of authors been equally directed to the slow as to the rapid advancement of lava, there is no doubt that we should find many instances besides these recorded by DOLOMIEU and SCROPE, of continuous movements of three feet, and even one foot a day, or less.* DoLoMInu Isles Ponces, p. 286. Note. t DELLA TORRE, Histoire, &c., p. 196. 4 Ibid. p. 130. ? HAMILTON, Campi Phlegraei, i. 19. 1 AULDJO, Sketches of Vesuvius, p. 79, with a sketch of the front of the stream whilst advancing at this rate. ?[ DELLA TORRE, p. 182. 