III. An Account of a Pin taken out of the Bladder of a Child, by Mr. William Gregory, Surgeon; communicated in a Letter to Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. Pr. R. S. Brompton near Chatham, Jan 4. 1733-4. I Was call'd to the Assistance of a Woman in Travail. The Faetus presented in a transverse Position; I soon recover'd the Feet, and in a few Minutes deliver'd the Woman. The Funiculus Umbilicalis was B b b so [368] so short, that it was with Difficulty I could make a Ligature upon it, in order to make a Separation: I immediately extracted the Secundine, and measur'd the Funiculus, which was little more than four Inches long. As soon as the Woman was taken care of, I examin'd the Child, which I found to be imperfect in several Parts, there being no Anus, neither Privities to distinguish of what Sex it was: Where the Vulva should be, there was a small Perforation, (though no Appearance of Labia) through which the Urine always pass'd away; there was likewise a large Hernia Umbilicalis, and a little lower in the Linea alba, was a Perforation, into which the Intestinum rectum open'd, and there the Excrements pass'd during the time the Child liv'd, which was almost ten Weeks. Several Days before the Child died, a Gangrene appear'd on the Hernia, which soon pass'd into the Intestines, and occasion'd the Child's Death: The Hernia, in my Opinion, was occasion'd by the Shortness of the Funiculus, which did not grow in Length proportionable to the Faetus; the Child in all other Parts was perfect. When the Child died, I had Liberty from the Parents to inspect into it: I did not go through a regular Dissection; I only inspected into the Intestinum rectum, (which I found as above describ'd) and the urinary Bladder, which I found very small, and no Urine in it; the Child was never observ'd to make Water in a Stream whilst it liv'd, which makes me of Opinion, the Sphincter Vesicae was imperfect. In handling the Bladder, I found something sharp pointing to my Finger; I could not discover what it was, until I snip'd off the Neck of the Bladder: I then took [369] took out of the Bladder a tough kind of Substance, about as big as a small Fig, in which was a Pin with the Head on, and very black; the urinary Bladder, Pin, and viscid Substance, (though now somewhat wasted) are here preserv'd in Sp. Vin. R. The Case, in my Opinion, being very extraordinary, occasion'd my giving the above Account of it, which I declare to be Truth, having open'd the Child in the Presence of several Spectators. Witness my Hand, Wm. Gregory. 