Part of a Letter from Orlando Bridgman Esq; F. R. S. to Capt. Wine, giving an Account of a Storm of Thunder and Lightning that happen'd at Ipswich, July 16, 1708. Ipswich, July 20, 1708. THERE happen'd here on the 16th past, a most Violent Storm of Thunder and Lightning, the Effects of which have been both wonderful and dismal; it began about Six to be perceived at some distance, and arose in the South West: I happened then to be on the highest Eminence about this Town, from whence I could very plainly distinguish the working of the Storm, and can't but take notice to you of one thing I thought very U re(138) remarkable, and what I had never met with before; I judged it then to be about four Miles distance from me: The Instant I perceiv'd the Flash, it seemed to extend it self like a Bow, and cast its Light a considerable way round it, and the Shaft of Lightning (if I may so call it) did not run in a waving Angular Figure as usual, but in a strait Shaft of Fire, like the Fuze of a Bomb, directly from the Cloud to the Ground; upon which, and finding the Storm approach, I hastned home, which was not a Mile. Soon after, we had two or three of the greatest Flashes of Lightning, and the noise of Thunder that succeeded them was so very great, and caused so great an Emotion in the Air, that it made the Rooms shake, and the Windows rattle, as in a great Storm of Wind. Dr. Dade a Physician, and very Ingenious Gentleman, assured me, as he came from his House to me just at that time, the Lightning seemed to dwell some considerable space on the Ground, and that he could very plainly feel the heat of it in his Face. The Passage-Boat was at that time, coming from Harwich, and just got to the Town or very near, when came a terrible Flash, which killed the Master and three Persons more that were on Board. I saw one the next day that underwent that dismal Fate, he had a Wound in his Thigh, his Breast was lacerated as if he had been whiped with Wires, and his Face and Body as black as if he had been blown up with Gunpowder, and thousands of small Black Spots about him. The Master of the Vessel was not at all disfigured, but had one Wound of his Side like a fresh Burn, and no other Mark about him, save the Chain of his Watch was melted, and no harm nor Burn could be perceived on his Breeches or Cloaths. The third Person, who was a Servant, was very much torn and shatter'd about the Head, the Crown of his Hat was taken clear out, as if it had been cut out, and several Parcels of his Hair drove into the Substance of the Hat. The fourth was very lit<inferred>le</inferred> (139) tle disfigured, only a Black Spot on his side, and a small Wound, as if made with a Cauterising Iron: there were several others aboard wounded and stunn'd. One Artis, among the former, had his Hair burnt close to his Head behind, and his Peruke untouch'd; he had a Scratch on his Arm about 4 Inches long, and a small hurt below the Elbow; he fell that Night into a Violent Fever, grew delirious, and if not dead yet, is pronounced irrecoverable; whether he receiv'd any hurt on his Brain, or the Violence of the Fever causes the Delirium, remains undertermined; there was no mark to be seen on his Coat, Wastcoat, or Shirt, where he had his hurt on his Arm. Two of the Persons kill'd were on the outside, and the other two under the Tilt of the Boat; and what is pretty remarkable, the two that were within the Tilt, sate on each Hand of a Woman that received no damage: one Person had the Sole of his Shooe unripped from the Leather, and no other Damage. I wonder the Blast lighting so directly on the Boat, did not shatter it all to pieces: there was another Boat that followed them, and received no damage, and took out the rest of the poor frighted Wretches; the Master of which does affirm, he saw the Fire light on the Bowsprit of the former Boat, where meeting a small resistance, it flew into small Streams like a Rocket, part into the Boat, part into the Water; which, if true, no doubt was the cause of the Mischief being done in so many different Parts of the Boat, whoever was unfortunate enough to be in the way of those fiery Darts, being the Sufferers; and does in some measure solve the seeming difficulty of the Womans being unhurt between the two Persons that were kill'd; and tho' there has been a great many very pretty Conjectures by Learned Men, to explain the Effects of Lightning, yet every remarkable new Accident of that kind, furnishes fresh Difficulties different from the former: If this proves any thing entertaining to you, it will be a great Satisfaction to me. U 2 IV. Part 