IX. Account tf two Instances of uncommon Forznatioz tn the Viscera of the Human Body. ty Mrt John Abernethya As ststant Surgeon to St. Bartholomews Hospital. Communicw cated by Sir Josepla Banks, Barto Pc R. Se Read February z4; 179S. I TAKE the liberty of presenting to the Royal Society, tlle relation of two cases of uncoXmmon formation of the human body. When animal existence is-supported by any other than the usual admirably contrived means, it cannot fail to excite the attention of the philosopherS sincle it shews to him the powers and retources of nature. The peculiarities of the first case which I have the honour to offier to-the Society, consist in an uncommon transposition of the heart, and distribution of the blood vessels; together with a very strange, anda I believe, singular formation of the liver. The body which contained these deviations from the usual-structure was brought to me for dissection; with its history whilst tlive, I am therefore unacquainted. The subject was a female infant, which m-easured two feet in length; the ambilieus was firmly cicatrized,-and the umbilical :vein closed; from these circllmstances I conclude that it was about ten months oldo The muscles of Ahe child were large and firma and covered by a considerable quantity of healthy fat indeed the appearance of the body-strongly implied tllat tll-e child hadt when living possessed lnuch vigour of constitlltion I 2 oMr. ABERNETHY S Account of two Instaxces ofI sllaIl first relate those varieties of the sanguifbrous system which were foulld on the fhoracic side of the diaphragm,, and afferurards describe those which were discovered in the abdonen; tllis wilI naturally lead lue to the account of the uncommon state of the liver. The s;tuation of the heart was reversed, the basis of that organ was placed a little to the left of the sternum, hilst its apex extended considerably to tlle right, and pointed against the space between the sixth and seventh ribs. The cavities usually calleds the right auricle and ventricle were consequently inclined to the left side of -the body 2 thereforeX to avoidS confusion in ttre descriptiony I shall, after A1r. WINS3: OWV term them anterior, whilst those cavities usually called left, I shall term posterior. The inferior vena cava past, as usualv through a tendinous ring in tlle right side of the;centre of the diaphragmS it afterwards pursued the course of the vena azygos, the place of which it suppliede after having united with the superior cava the conjoined veirls passedbeneath the basis of the heart, to ex pasid into the anterior aiirxcle. The vetns returning the blood from the liver unit@d into one trunk which passed through a ten:dinous aperture in the left of the centre of the diaphragm, and terminatgd immediately also in the anterior auricle. The distribution of blood to the lungs, and-the returt of st from those bodies, were accomplished after the usual manner. The aorta, after it had emerged from the posterior ventricle of the hearts extended its arch from the left to the right side--but afterwards pursued its ordinary course along the bo dies of the dorsalvertebr* anb omfflon Formation tn the Zzscera of the Human Body. 6i From the curvature of the aorta there Airst arose the-com:mon arteri-al-^trunk, which, in this sllbject, divided into the left arotid and subclavian arteries; nvhilst the right carotid and subclaviann proceeded from the-aorta by distinct trunks. The inferior aorta gave ofF the cxliac, which, as iusuai, diX vided into tllree branches; however, that artery which was . . , distributed to the :liver appeared larger than common; it exceeded, by more than one-third, the size of the splenic artery of this subject. This was the only vessel which supplied the liver with blood, for the purpose either of nutritior or secretion. The vena portarum was formed in the usual manner, but terminatecl in the inferior cava, nearly on a line with the renal veins. The umbilical vein of this subject ended in the hepatic vein. The liver was of the ordinary size, but hadz not tlle usual inclination to the right side of the body ; it was situated in the middle of the upper part of the abdomen, and nearly an equal portion of the glandSextended irlto either hypochondrium. The gall bladder lay collapsed in itsX usual situatio-n ; it was of a natural structure, buft rather smaller than common; it measured one inch and ahalf in length, and halsf an inch in breadth. On opening the bladder we found in it about half a tea-spoon full of bileX sn colour it resembled the bile of children, being of a deep yellow brownX it also tastedlike bile i it was bitter, but not so acridly or nauseously bitter as common bile. I diluted a small quantity of this fluid with water, and with this liquor moistened some paper which > had been tinged with a vegetable blue: this was instantly changed de Mr. ABERNETHY S Account ef two Instances ofinto a deep green, consequexltly this fluid, like common bilet abounded with alkali. I added some diluted nitrous acid to a $mall quantity of this, and of common bile; they both lecame changedS by thisJ addition, to a similar greenv colour. The colouring matter ef the -bile therefore appearsto have possessed its common properties. The gall ducts had been divideda in remofiring the stomach and duodenum, before the uncommon termination of the-verla portarum was discoverecI and some bile had flowed from the cii-vided ducts. The intestines did not contain much alimentary or foecal matter; this was, however, as usual, deeply tillged with bile.The spleen consisted of seven separate portions to each o£ which a branch of the splenic artery was distributed. Tlle other viscera were soundn and of their usual structure and appearance No cause could be discovered to vvhich the childvs death could be assigned. We observed that the tollgue sras in-: crtisted with at dark coloured mucus, wllich indicated the existence of fever previous to the infant's death. \5lhen an anatomlst contemplates the performance of biliary secretion by a vein a circumstance so contrary to the gelleral economy-of the body, he naturally concludesX that bile canrwot beFprepared unless from venal blood; and he also infers, tllat the equal anel-undisturbed current of blood in the veins is favotlrable to the secraion fl but the circumstances of the present case, in whcll bile was secreted by an artery. provc tlle fallac-y of tllis reasoning. I extrelnely regret that only so small a quantity of this bile could be collected from t-he gall bladder X as su-rely i$ was very desirable tc) ascertain uncommon Formatzon in the Vtscera of the Human Body. 63more fully how far the quaIities of this curiously preparetl fluid resembled common bile. That the fluid secreted by the liver was not, in this case, deficient in quantity, appears to lue sufficiently evident. If the gall bladder had not suffiered occasional repletion, I think it wollld havebeen found in a state of greater contraction. Some dbile had escaped from the divided gall ducts, and a GOlI-siderable quantity of this fluid would be required to give so deep a tintn as in thiscase was vibible, to the alimentary ;matter. I canrlot, therefore, but stlppose that the empty state of the gall bladder was the effect of accident, and not of defi cient secretioll by the liver. The bulk and well nourished state of the body do, I thinkX detnonstrate tSat there -was no defect in the functions of the chylopoetic organs. But Eit will surely be inquiredn from rhat cause the death of the child or5ginated. It lnay be suspected that the mal-forma tion of the liver contributed to its decease v and particularly asno derangetnent of any vital organ could be discovered. -Ye-t i-f it be considered how frequently children dile froln nervous irritation, or feve-r, the probability of this suspicion is, in my opinion;) dim-nished. The circumstances of the case may-impress others with contrary sentiments; I shall rem:ain satisfied with having fhithfillly descrited theappear -ances of the body, and llaving offered 0 those remarks suhich I belleved deducible from: themO The pec-ul;arity of tlie next casea which r have the lionour to lay before the Society, consists in an uncommorl formatiorl of the alimentary canale The body of a boy ^ras brought to Jne for dissection-7 it measured four feet three inches ir s )4Mr. ABERNETRY'S Accoasnt of trso Instaxces Qflength ; it was well formed, and had moderately large limbs g they, however, appeared flabby, as if wasted by recent disease. The abdomen was enormotlsly svroln; which being-openeds there appeared a more than ordinary -extent of Iarge intesw tines, ill a state of great distentlon. The diameter of the canal measu-red about three lnchess and its dimensions were nearly equal in every part. The matter with which it was turgid was of a greyish colour, of a pulpy consistence, havil1g little foetor, and quite unlike the usual foecal conten-ts of the large intestines. The length of tlle colon was uncommon; havingn as usualascended to the rlght hypochondrium, it svas reflected dowrlwards, even into the pelvis; it then reascended to the left hypochondrium? and aftersvards pursued its usual course. After turnillg aside this large volume of intestine, to examirle the other parts of the alimentary t-ube, we were surprised to discover that the subject contained scarcely any small intestines. These viscera, with the stomach, layin a perfectly collapsed state, their texture was extremely tender; they were torn even by a gentle examination. The duode-num, jejunuln, and ileum, when detached from the body, andextended, measured only two feet in lellgth, whilst the extent of the large intestines exceeded four feet. The utmost length of the intestinal tube, irz this subject, -was little more than six feet, whereas it should have been alSout twenty-seven feet, had it born the ordinary proportion to the length of the body. I distended and dried this curious alimentary canal, and stlll have it in preservation. As the small intestines measured only two feet in lengthS gncommx For?natSox in tbe Yixcera fthe Human Badye ethis extent was doubtless insufficierlt for the preparatlorl and absorption of clayle; tise processesmust theref-ore have been, in a great degree, performed by the large irltestinese The form arld stature of the boy sllew that nutrition was not scantily supplied v he died evidently fiola a w-arlt of in testmal evacuation. Whether the unusu-al structure o f the canal contributed to the production <3f disea-se, cannot, l?er haps, be readily determined; it appears, however very probable that uncommonly formed parts although capable of supkporting life, may beless aadapted tc) su-s^tain the-derangeo rnent of functions consequent to disease. In Tab. VII. and VIIT. are re1?resented the appearance>s described in tlae fir3t of the fbreping cases Tab. VII. A Theanterior ventricle, whi is usually intlined} to the right side. B. The anterior auriclee C lthe posterior ventricle, whichis usualW in-clined tcs the left side Ds The posterior auricle. E. The superior vena cava. F. The aorta. G The pulmonary arterye He The common trunk of the left carotid antl subelavian arteries. I. The right carotid. K. The right sllbclaviane L. The hepatic vein. M Part of the diaphragm. MDCCXCIIIz K 66 Mr. ASERNETHY s Arcount of two Instances @b0N. The Iiver. O. The, superior mesenteric artery« P. The renal artery. Q. The rerwal vein. R. The vena cava inferior, S. The aorta ,cont-inued. X 0 : 0 T, T. The vena portarum. , Tab.f vrIr. A. The anterior atlricle, turned backwards,, that the vena cava may be seen. ; B. The posterior ventricIe. C. The posterior auricle D. The superior vena cava. E.The inferior vfena cava. F. The c-orljoined veins passing beneath the basis of the 'heart to the, anterior auricle. G. The beginning' of'the vessels of the right lunag H. The pulmonary artery.I. The aorta. K. The hepatic vein. I. Part of the diaphragm X, The lirrer. N. -The caliac artery. , . . . . ,0. The hepatic artery. P. The splenic artery. Q. The renal artery. R. The superior mesenteric arteryo S. The renal vein. rro l 1 1. snevena portarum. . WPheWs. rrssw. MDCCXEE. Zab. VlI. p.6s. f>S. Xrrz. wecxem. a. .w. h6. 