An Account Of another Experiment of Transfusion, viz. of Bleeding a Mangy into a Sound Dog. This was made by Mr. Thomas Coxe, and imparted likewise to the Royal Society in manner following. I procured an old Mungrell Curr, all over-run with the Mainge, of a middle size, and having, some hours before, fed him plentifully with Cheese-parings and Milk, I prepared the Jugular Vein, N n n 2 as (452) as we use to do the Carotidal Artery of the Emittent Animal, not designing any thing further, than to determine by Experiment the Infection of the Recipient's blood. Then I made as strong a Ligature upon the Dogs Neck, as I durst, for fear of choaking him, to the end, that the Venal blood, which is much more sluggish in its motion and evacuation, than the Arterial, might be emitted with the greater advantage of Impetus. Then I took a young Land-Spaniel, of about the same bigness, and prepared his Jugular Vein, as is usually done in the Recipient Animal; the heart-ward part of the Vein to receive the Maingy Dogs blood, and the head-ward part of it to discharge his own into a Dish. Having thus prepared them both, and placed them in a convenient posture one to the other, I let slip the running knots, and by frequent compression of the Neck (besides the Ligature I had made) by reason of the tardy running of the Venal blood out of the Emittent, transfused about 14 or 16 ounces of the blood of the Infected, into the Veins of the Sound Dog, as neer as I could guess by the quantity of blood, which ran into a Dish from the Recipient; supposing the Recipient Animal to lose near about the same proportion to what the Emittent supplies. The effect of which Experiment was, no alteration at all, any way, to be observed in the Sound Dog. But for the Maingy Dog, he was in about 10 dayes or a fortnights space perfectly cured: which might with probability enough, I think, have been expected from the considerable evacuation, he made; (perhaps the quickest and surest remedy for the cure of that sort of disease, he was infected with, both in Man and Beast.) An 