(344) V. An Experiment to illustrate what has been said in the Philosophical Transactions, N~. 386, 387, 388, concerning the Figure of the Earth, by the Rev. J. T. Desaguliers, L. L. D. F. R. S. U P O N an Axis of Iron, that cou'd be made to turn swiftly (by means of a Wheel, whose String went round a Pulley fix'd to the said Axis) I slipp'd on two Iron Hoops, whose Planes intersected at right Angles, representing two Colures, which, being of a spring Temper, sprung in such Manner as to be 1/96 Part longer in that Diameter that coincided with the Axis, than in their AEquatorial Diameter; this Proportion being the same that Mr. Cassini supposes to be between the Axis and AEquatoria~ Diameter of the Earth. Two circular Plates~ to which the said Hoops were riveted, had square Holes, thro' which the Axis pass'd, so that the two Poles of the oblong Spheroid, which the Hoops describe in their Revolution, might approach together in such Manner, as to let them put on the Form of a true Sphere, when, by the Whirling, the AEquatorial Diameter of the Machine swell'd and over-power'd the Elasticity of the Hoops. A greater Degree of Swiftness turn'd the Sphere into an oblate Spheroid of Sir Isaac Newton's Figure. A Velocity still greater makes the Disproportion of the Diameters, such as those of Jupiter; and still the AEquatorial Diameter encreases with the centrifugal Force. Another Hoop with a Catch, representing the AEquator, shews (in the Experiment) the Increase of the AEquatorial Circumference, and an Index applied to the Frame, shews the Increase of the Diameter. As (345) As soon as the Revolution of the Machine ceases, the Colures, Meridians or Hoops return to their Elliptical Figure, whose longest Diameter is the Axis of Revolution. If the Force, by which the Hoops endeavour to keep their Figure, be consider'd, as the Gravity that keeps together the Parts of the Earth; from this Experiment compar'd with what has been said in the Translations above-mention'd, it will appear that the Earth cannot preserve its Figure, unless it be an oblate Spheroid. VI. 