Fig. 11. N K H (344) VIII. Some Amendments and Additions to the Account of Things found under Ground in Lincolnshire, in the Transactions of May and June, An. Dom. 1702, Numb. 279. Sect. 4, 5. By Mr. Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. W H E R E A S in the Paper aforesaid, pag. 1157. lin. 35. and pag. 1158. lin. 15, 16. there is some Difference betwixt the Accounts of the Depth of the Things found; that in the Letter, Sect. 5, accounting it to be about 8 or 10 Foot, and that in the Letter, Sect. 4. to be 12 or 14 Foot deep; the Reader may please to understand, that the Depth was not measur'd, but conjectur'd, and accounted for according to the Relator's best Remembrance. That which makes the Depth the greater being that of Sect. 4. (first placed, but last wrote) was wrote upon Information (but by Conjecture also) of another that lived near the Place, and view'd it often. But the Difference may easily be accommodated or salved, by supposing (which will not be far from Truth) that when the Labourers or Dikers first discovered and encountred the Jetties and other Things there found, it might be about the Depth of 8 or 10 Foot; but the Bottom of them, when they came to be all taken up, might be at the Depth of about 12 or 14 Foot, as in the other Relation. Take notice also, concerning what is said pag. 1159. lin. 14. that some, and those very judicious Persons, say, that the Stones which the Spectators saw at the Bottom of Hammon Beck, were such as the Dikers had first (345) first thrown out, (when they were taking up the old Goat) and were fallen in again. But that it was a hard and firm Soil is certain; and probably that on which the famous Steeple of Boston stands. See the Record of the Foundation of the said Steeple in the Philosophical Transactions, Numb. 223. pag. 243. The Form of the Shoe Soles found at Spalding was after this Manner, (Vid. Fig. II.) each Foot had its proper Shoe: This was for the right Foot. Now, by some Passages in History, it may probably be conjectured, when those Shoe Soles were left there, and how long it may be since that Atterration, that makes the present Country, began. Take an Instance or two. In Stow's Chronicle, ad An. 1465. we read of a Proclamation against the Beaks or Pikes of Shoone, or Boots, that they should not pass two Inches upon Penalties there mentioned. And by other Passages in History it appears, that those Pikes of Shoes were before that time exceeding long, and held up by Chains, that they might not hinder the Wearers going; which Chains or Ligaments were sometimes of Silver, if not of Gold, that they might be rich, as well as ornamental. The other Instance is this. In Melchior Adamus's Life of Conrad Pellican, at the Bottom of Page 263, in the Octavo Edition, there is this Passage. Illo ipso tempore (viz. An. 1484.) milites ex Flandria reversi multa nova introduxerunt, nempe variegatas caligas, obtusos calceos, qui antea acuti gestabantur a viris & mulieribus simul quoque novum sandaliorum genus obtusum, quod vocabant Pantofflen, quibus suos etiam parentes uti conspexit, omissis paulatim calopodiis ~ dictis: quae quidem novitates intenim immensum creverunt. Now (346) Now by this Account it appears, that it is not much above 200 Years since those Shoes, before described. were worn; and consequently it cannot be much longer, since the Earth hath been raised there to the Thickness before mentioned, viz. of 10 or 12 Foot; and since Bicker Haven grew up to be (as now it is) higher Land than the Country on each Side of it. By which may be conjectured, what a Change a Century or two more may make in the Out-falls of the Rivers of Witham, Welland, Nyne and Ouse; and consequently the Necessity of taking some other Method for preventing the impending Mischiefs, which threaten the Navigation of the said Rivers, and those who have Estates and Interests in the great Level of the Fens, and are concerned about the Draining of them. 