LII. An Account of the Earthquake which happen'd about a Quarter before One o'Clock, on Sunday, September 30. 1750. by Mr. Steward to the Earl of Cardigan. Deene, Oct. 2. 1750. I N the Morning there was a gentle westerly Wind, something cool; but for some time before the Earthquake happen'd, it was quite calm and close, and much warmer. The Air was very dry, and filled with Clouds that had no Motion, but prevented the Sun's appearing (I think) all Day. The Noise that preceded the Earthquake was, for a few Seconds, like the rumbling Z z z z of Read Oct. 25. 1750. [722] of a Coach upon a Bridge, or Thunder at a Distance, when there were two considerable Explosions very near one another, which gave the great Shock; and after that the Noise continued as before for about half a Minute, the Earth trembling all the while; but I don't find any body perceived any sulphureous Smell. The Direction of the Earthquake was from West to East; as was very easily discerned by every body that was out of Door, as I was, and took notice of the Noise. It is probable it began in Derbyshire, or some of the Counties to the West of that (for I am informed it was felt as much at Derby as here, and at all Places between); and passed off the Island thro' Lincolnshire, and Part of Cambridgeshire. The Breadth from North to South I imagine to be 40 or 50 Miles; of which much the greatest Part lay North of this Place. The Force of the Shock was chiefly, if not intirely, lateral; and so considerable, as that several People, who were sitting in Chairs, catched at the Walls, Tables, and such things as stood next them, expecting they should be thrown down: Buildings of all Kinds were shaken greatly; and the Beds, Chairs, and such things as stood above-stairs were displaced, and rocked about very much: Windows were shaken as if they would have been broken; and in several Places Pewter upon Shelves in Kitchens thrown upon the Floor. At several Churches, where divine Service was not finished, both in this County, Rutland, and Leicestershire, the People were so alarmed, that they [723] they ran out, fearing the Churches would fall on their Heads; and some were so terrified, they swooned away. At Stonton, some of the Plaistering of the Church was shaken down; which most terribly frightened the People that were in it, and obliged them to run out. I have not heard of any Damage being done by it more than some Chimnies thrown down, but nobody hurt by them. P. S. Deene stands close to the Road which leads from Northampton to Stamford; it is about 25 Miles from the former, and 10 from the latter. LIII. 