VI. An Abstract of a Book, viz. An Account of the Islands of Orkney. By James Wallace, M. D. and Fellow of the Royal Society. To which is added, an Essay concerning the Thule of the Ancients., 80. London. THese cold barren Islands being under the Protection of a Great Man, and here described by a very observing and judicious Physician, are like to make some figure in the world, especially amongst those who prefer the certainty of Nature to meer notional Speculations. The work consists of eight Chapters; in the first of which, the several Names, the Longitudes, Latitudes, Boundaries, the Ebbings and Flowings of the Sea, the Harbours and Merchandizes are treated. The second comprehends the Plants, Animals and Fossils. The Vegetables alone amount to near 300, all or most herbaceous ones, there being no indigenous Trees, only here and there some planted in Gardens, but they prove dwarfs, seldom bearing any mature fruit, whereas in more Northerly parts of Norway Trees P p p p rise [544] rise strong and lofty, thriving even on small Rocks, surrounded by the Sea. The Herbs have the names of Caspar Bauhine in his Pinax, as the shells (very numerous in these little Isles) have those of Dr Lister in his Hist. Animal Ang. and in his Synops. Conchyl. wherein the Author shews himself to be a master in this sert of writing, for without some such method of referring, the Reader is oftner confounded than instructed. The Birds and Fishes may be reduced to Gesner, and Mr Ray as some of the figured Bodies to Mr LhwdysLythophylacBritan. He takes notice of the several sorts of Phaseoli, commonly called Molucco Beans, (but found by Dr Sloane in Jamaica) cast upon these Northern Isles; also Sperma Ceti, Ambergreise, Sponges, Cuttlebones. He discribes the Finn-man,and their Boats observed on the Coasts, and relates many strange effects of storms. He is curious in the Diseases, and some of their particular cures. The Country lies about 59 degrees, and 2 minutes Northern Lat. the compass varying 8 D. so that the longest day is above 18 hours. At Midnight it is so clear for a great part of June, that one may read a Letter at his Chamber Window; yet it cannot be true what some Writers report, that from the Hill of Hoy, a man may see the Sun at Midnight, for that may be only the Image of it refracted thro some vapours or clouds about the Horison (as may be demonstrated from the late Astronomical observations of the Swedes at Torneo in Lapland, lying about 66 Deg. N. Lat.) Amongst the great number of smaller Herbs growing in these Islands none of the Mallow kind could be found, nor several other Plants very common in the like Climes; not so much as any Bush or Shrub to be found wild, except [545] except some few Roses, the Juniper, the Myrtillus, and Heath; yet some Kitchen Herbs arrive here to as great a bigness as about London, and Artichokes to a greater than in any other place. The Sea runs very high round all these Isles, and in Storms dashes the Salt water far into the Country, frequently throwing up abundance of several Species of Whales, Stones and Algas, with which they manure their Land. The little Cows yield a great store of Milk, and the Ewes generally produce two Lambs at a Birth, some three and four. The Horses small but strong, great herds of Swine, and rich Coney Warrens. Plenty of most sort of Fish, and vast conveniences for the Herring and Cod Trade, if any ways encouraged. The Natives are very healthful, and live sometimes married 80 years, sometimes bearing Children beyond 60.For other natural observations of this kind, the Work itself ought to be consulted, many curious particulars will occur upon the Birds,the Testaceous and Crustaceous Animals. Yet the Ancient Monuments, the Civil and Ecclesiastical History are not neglected; in all which the Author has discover'd a large compass of knowledge, especially upon the Pights or Picts, Belus, and Ganus, the ancient Norwegians, the Sinclars and Earls of Orkney, the Stewards and Douglasse's. What he delivers of the Obelisks, the Causeys, Urns, and Burial Places, of the ancient state of the Church of Orkney, of the propagation of the Christian Faith there, and of the particular customs of the Inhabitants, are very remarkable. The [546] The whole is illustrated with an exact Map of all the Islands together, with the Soundings and the setting of the Tyde of Flood; and with a Copper Plate, containing the Icons of some rarities mentioned in the Book, as of a very beautiful Fish (spotted like a Peacocks tail, a sort of Turdus without doubt) a Patella articulata cymbiformis, very elegant; a Penna Marina, the Ember goose, the several Exotick Beans, cast upon the shoars, the Bernacle shell, many naturally and artificially figured Stones, a Pecten, and a Fibula. At the end is annext a learned Essay concerning the Thule of the Ancients, for which the Reader is referr'd to the Book itself. London, Printed for Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Princes Arms in St Pauls Church Yard, 1700. 