205J KIL. Otn the Mode of breeding of the Ovivizviparouzs Shark, and oadz the Aeration of thefwtal Blood in djff'rent Classes of Anitnas By Everard Homne, Esq. F. fR. S. tRead June 7, 181io 1THAT some of the shark tribe do not lay their eggs, but hatch them within the body, and that others lay them in the same manner as the skate, lhas long been known ; but nothing seems to have been accurately made out upon either of these subjects I am therefore induced to lay before the Society the followring observations. In my examination of the squalus maximus, ani account of which is published, I found that it closely resembled in its internal structure, the squalus acanthius of LINNMUS, a fish common on the Sussex coast, which made me pay particular attention to the anatomy of all the parts of this species of dogs fish. In December, which is the breeding season of this particular species of dog-fish, I -procured specimens of the male, and of the female, in all the different stages of impregnation; ,from the dissection of these is drawn up the following ac-count of the organs of generation. The male organs were found in two very different states/; in one, the testicles were small, and the penis scarcely discernible; an the other, the testicles were larger, the epididymus and vas deferens turgid with semen, and the penis put on the appearance of a projecting infundibular canal, capable of con-4DCCCX. E e Ao6 Mr. HOME on the Mode of breeding veying the semen into the oviduct of the female, resemblin in its form, the penis of the squalus maximus, only upon an infinitely smaller scale. The pendulous bodies close to the oval fins of the male., which have been mistaken for penises, by many physiologists9. ,and by others -more rightly considered as claspers, to lav hold of the female, bear a close resemblance in their form to those of the squalus maximus, which have been described in -my account of that fish, under the name holders, and from every part of their mechanism, there can be no doubt that ,they perform that office. In the breeding season, they become -more fleshy than at other times the muscles at that time 'being enlarged. The insertion of the penis into the female, is not unlike -that of the common fowl, but the penis is fitted to inject the ,semen further into the oviduct than can be done by the grooved -penis of the cock. When the holders are spread out, so as 'to embrace the female, even after the fishes are dead, the penis is brought ,forward by that means, so as readily to enter the external <orifice of the oviducts, to which it is guided by the prominence of the clitoris. The holders are represented in this expanded s-tate in the annexed drawing. The mode in which the semen enters the penis is so unlike what is met with in other animals, that it deserves to be particularly explained. The vasa deferentia are convoluted in their course, but become straight and much enlarged at the lower part, and xnstead of going on to the penis, terminate by two wide' orifices on the posterior surface of what may be called tue of the Oviviviparouis Shark, &ct 9207 urinary bladder, which is of an oval shape, and partially divided into two by a septum, on each side of which the ureters enter it. From this cavity, the penis is continued like the neck of a Florence flask, and the semen, before it can arrive at the penis, fills the bladder, and is propelled by the action of the muscular coats of that cavity, by which means: the semen acquires velocity, and the penis is rendered turgid during the whole time that such force is applied to the liquid passing through it. This bladder at other times is a reservoir for the urine,. which must be considered a secondary office in a fish cons stantly living in water. The situation and appearance of the testicles are seen in the annexed drawing, which makes a, description of them uni necessary. The female organs, before they undergo the necessary changes to form the eggs, and prepare them to receive the influence of the male, are very little developed; the ovaria are not larger than the testicles of the male before the breeding season, and resemble them both in their appearance and situation; the oviducts are so small as with great difficulty to be traced, and the clitoris is just large enough to be distinguished. When the eggs are formed, all these parts develope themselves. The ovaria became exceedingly vascular, and the yolks become conspicuous in all the stages of their increase, from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, and when arrived at that Size, they pass into the oviduct. The number of yolks which are ready at any one time to pass into the oviduct, varies exceedingly in different fi~shes, Ee 2 208 Mr. HoME8on the Mode of breeding and even in the two ovaria of the same fish. I have seen five of the full size in one ovarium, and only two in the other; in another fish there were -three in each, and so on to a great variety. The oviducts enlarge, and become exceedingly extended. In fis2h -7 inches long, each oviduct 'was 26 inches in eIngth its internal surface was formed into three distinct calvities, s ap rated from one another by contractions in the coats of the canal. The first of these begins from the orifice that r-ceivey the yolk, and is pyramidal in its form; it is ten inches in length, and gradually diminishes in its capacity, the coats being extremely elastic, which throws the internal membrane into folds in a longitudinal direction, taking a very serpentine course. At the termination of this portion, the. contraction is formed by the interposition of a substance of a fibrous stru cture, and light grey colour, between the external coat annd internal membrane, fori iing, a circular ba nd, nhich is dividcd into three equal parts by two circular parallel ines on ture i)ternal me nbrane. This band is half an inch broad, and its internal surface has a glanddular appearance. The secoad cavity is u-nly six inches long, its internal membrane is very vC's2c11-ar) Hand thrown into plicm in a Jongitudinal direction 1on er thicker, and less numerous thana those of the first portion; they are smeared over withmucus. This cavity is Spa Ircat d from the third, by a transverse fold of Lhe internal rne 1A b anc, in a contracted state. The third portion is ten inches long, and forms the cavity in which the eggs are retained, till the, your g fishes are formed, and capable of takirg care of thenselves. The leggs, howvever, are not loose in the oyidct, as in brds, but a certain r u t of the Ovivivviarous Shark,:&c. 209 corresponding to the number of yolks that are in a state to leave the ovarium at the same time, are inclosed in a membranous bag, piled one upon the other. This bag, at its upper end, is grasped by the contraction which separates the middle and lower portion of the oviducts; the other extremity, which is in the fix rin of a blunted cone, >s loose and moveable in lthe surrounding cavity; the eggs are inveloped in a transparent jelly, which occupies every part of the bag, beyond that in which the eggs are contained. The clitoris becomes so much enlargedas to project externally ; its base swells out into the form of a heart, as it is painted upon cards, only that it is much more pointed; the posterior surface adheres closelyeto the parts behind it, for -one half of its length the other ihalf is loose, and on its upper surface there is a groove passing on each side, towards the orifices of the two ovid ucts. The iy rphz zre formed by a fold of the termination of tthe rectunms and project laterally ; they are very vascular, and comi roe the external orifice of the vestibulum, beyond bicl are the contracted openings of the oviducts. After impreg nation has taken place, the pendulous portion of the clitoris becomes flaccid and narrowv When the youn, dogfish is comA tely formed, the yolk, remains attached to the belly by -a long chord, consisting of blood vessels, and the fish swii nabout in the surrounding jelly with this attached-to it. If the 'bag is torn, and the fisi is taken out anid put Into water. t swims about, if the vessels -gong to the yolk are wonded the fsh immediate'ly d. That nmnber of the shark tribe ?lav te is particular nmode of hatching their eggs is nott p resent kn owun but there is 21-0 Mr. HoME on /he Mode of breeding reason to believe, that it is very general, since the eggs ons the empty shells belonging to this tribe of fishes, are rarelymet with. The squalus maximum, I have no doubt, is of this kind; and from the following memorandum of my late friend Dr. PATRICK RUSSELL, given to me by Sir JOSEPH BANKS, the large shark met with between the Tropics, breeds in the same way. "A shark caught on the 14th of November, 1780 i in lat. 70 N. measured 8 feet 7 inches, the tail included. The head and, body of a dark bluish colour, the breast and belly of a silver white. Upon opening the belly, the two oviducts were discs tended with young ones contained within an inner cavity, swimming in a white gelatinous liquid, thicker than the liquor amnios of quadrupeds, "The right oviduct contained 21 young ones, the left to; of these m were males, and i6 females; they were all nearly of the same length, between 9 and io inches, and each of them had the yolk attached to its belly, by a chord of considerable length.. "' In the lat. 5" N. another female shark was caught 7 feet long, it had only 8 young ones, 4 on each. side." Of the oviparous shark I could obtain no information, but what is contained in BoHADSCH, in whose works there is an engraving of the egg, and of the shark to which it belonged, caught in the Mediterranean. So little has this subject been attended to by naturalists, that no mention is made that I know of, in any author, of such eggs being met with upon the coast of Great Britain; I was, however, so fortunate as to find a shark's egg on the sea beach at Worthing in Sussex, in Sept. 1809, and, in the course of that month, procured several, of the Ovivivij5arous Shark, &c. i i -f them containing young sharks in all the different stages of their growth. The egg which Is represented in the annexed drawing, is exactly similar to the engraving in BOHADSCHIf when minutely examined, there is on each side of the egg a ,small slit, for the admission of salt water within the shell. In the latter end of October, a young dog-fish was sent me ;13 inches long, which exactly resembled the embryo in the egg, and proves to be the squalus canicula of LINN]EUS; it had boen feeding ois the worms met with in the sand banks, some of which were found in "Its stomach. The oviviparous and oviparous dog-fishes, differ materially in the form of their stomachs. In the first, the pyloric portion 'is short and wide, 'in the other, long and narrow like an intestine. As there are larger sharks with both these kinds of 'stomach, it is reasonable to believe they have also the same Adifference in their mode of breeding. The gelatinous liquid which surrounds the ova of the dog.. -fish, was found to differ exceedingly in its properties from other animal jellies, for when the membranous bag contains -ing it, was immersed in proof spirit, for the purpose of preserving the ova in their natural situation, the jelly, instead of -coagulating, as was expected, expanded so much "as to burst the bag. So striking a peculiarity led to a -further considerae ttion of it, and a suggestion naturally arose in my mind, that -there might be a similarity between it and the jelly, with -which the ova of the frog are surrounded. 1 therefore rev quested my friend Mr. W. BRANDE, to examine theichemical properties of both these substances, and shall subjoin his -account of them. That-the jelly in the oviviparous dog-fish, is formed-in the Mr. HoB on. the Mode of breeding middle portion of the oviduct, there can be no doubt ; but the exact parti in which the jelly of the frog is formed, has not been ascertained, which led mne to make the following obs vationls respecting it. In some frogs that were kept in a damp cellar through the winter, no visible change took place in the ovaria or oviducts, although frequently examined, by immersing parts of them in water, at diffirent temperatures., till the ioth of February; at that time a portion of the oviduct, when immersed in water at 8oS, swelled out so as to double its size, and when the water was at -g1og expanded very rapidly. On the 25th of February 'the oviducts were seen to enlarge, and on slitting them open, lthe internal surface was smeared over with a ropy fluid. A portion of oviduct two or three inches long, in water heated to 2O? swelled out into a mass of transparent jelly which filled a half pint tumbler, and all traQes of the coats of the oviduct were lost. Upon shewing this jelly to Sir JOSEPH BANKS, he said that it very much resembled what he had seen when a boy, in the country during the winter months, upon the ground, and on the boughs of trees, called star-shot jelly, from being supposed to be formed by falling stars and that it would be worth while to compare them together, and determine whether the common opinion mentioned by PENNANT, which Sir JosEPHx -BANKS had always believed, was correct. The jelly is said to be brought into this'state, by the frog having been swallowed by ,a bird, and the warmth and moisture of the stomach, making the jelly in the oviducts expand so much, that the bird is ohiigeAd to reject it by vomiting. Sir JosEPHi BANKS procured 'o e star-shot jelly from Lincolnshire, and Jr. W. BRANDE ofithe Oviv viparous Shark-, &A 13 found that it was in all its chemical properties, the same with that formed in the oviduct of the frog, and when saturated with water, resemibled the jelly in the oviduct of the dogrd fish. The consideration of the properties of this jelly, with which thie ova of the oviviviparous dog-fish and of the frog, are surrounded, and the purposes it is intended to answer, led me to take a view of the various modes by which the foetal blood is aerated in the different classes of animals. The provisions of nature for this very important purpose, form a beautiful series. The ova of many fish, as the salmon and trout, are laid in the sand and gravel, and the fetal blood of the embryo is aerated by means of the surrounding water; these fishes, therefore, are found to spawn as near as possible to the sources of springs, where the water, coming from the earth, is in a state of high aeration. The ova of other fish, which spawn in waters less impregnated with air, are deposited on the leaves of water plants and weeds, that give out oxygen, by means of which, the embryo has its blood aerated. The tench and the pike are of these kinds. The ova of the perch are surrounded by a jelly as that in the frog, which imbibes water, probably for aerating the foetal blood. These observations were suggested to me, by my friend Professor DAVY, who has made it a part of his amusements to attend to the habits of fishes. The ova of the oviparous shark, skate, and all tieat tribe, although too strong in their coats to be penetrated by the sea vater, have natural apertures for its admission and escape, .}.IDCCCx. F f 214 Mr. HOME On the Mode of breeding there being two on each side of the egg, so that there is a current of sea water constantly supplying the egg with air. In the oviviviparous sharks the ova have no hard covering, being contained within the body of the fish, they are surm rounded by the same jelly as in the frog, and the sea water is applied to the membrane in which they are inclosed, the opening of the oviduct admitting it for that purpose. In the bird, the eggs being surroutnded by atmospherical uir, are supplied with it through the porous texture of the shell, which readily transmits; it to the membranes of the embryo. In all these tribes, the mode, 'in which the air is applied to the fcetal blood is as follows. Besides the common circulation of the blood from the heart of the embryo, to the different parts of its frame, there is a lesser circulation from the arteries to the membranes, which inclose the embryo, and which are in contact with the aerated water, or air, in which the egg is deposited; in this circulation,the blood attracts the air through the membrane, and conveys it into the system. In birds, the young are fed and taken care of by the parents, after the eggs are hatched, and in them this fetal circulation is immediately stopped, on the embryo breaking the shell, and the yolk is drawn up into the belly as a supply of nourishment, till the stomach has acquired the powers of digestion. In the oviviviparous sharks, the young ones swim about in the jelly, which surrounds the ova, with the yolk attached to the belly by a long vascular chord, till fitted to swim in the sea, and all this; time the blood is aerated from these membranes. After the young leaves tUe bag in which the eggs are contained, the yolk is taken into the belly, as in the bird. f the Oviviv'iparous Shar ,'&c ' In the opossum tribe, and all the pouched animals in New South Wales, there is a peculiarity in the form of the female -organs of generation, which has not been understood ; this is a commu:nication between the uterus and vagina d&urig the frbnmation of the embryo, by means of one or to ioateral canals. These I described in my account of the female organs of generation of the Kanguroo, and wras led to believe, from the coagulated staLe of the parts, which had been a year preserved in spirit, that the openings into the vagina were closed; but this mistake wlas afterwards corrected in my account of the Wombat, in which I stated from Mr. BELL, who examined the uterus with the emnibryo in it, On opening the vagina, it was fo md to terminate at the common neck of the uteri; on each side of which, were the openings .of the lateral canals, and in the middle between themn, the meatus urinarius, with a slender fleshy pedicle on each side of it. Behind the meatus urinarius, were two orifices leading to the uteri, but they were filled with a thick gelatinous substance, which rendered them completely impervious." These lateral canals enlarge very much, as the embryo begins to. form; at one end they open freely into the uterus, and at the other into the vagina; they are distended with jelly, and are employed to keep up a communication with the external air, for the purpose of aerating the foetal blood; their appearance iin the k'anguroo is seen in the annexed drawing. As the embryo in all the animals of this tribe is contained in a soft egg, which, from the description of Mr. BELL, the only person who has attentively examni.ed it, has no connection with the internal membrane of thIe uterus, some apparatus like the lateral canals became necessary for the aeration of F f ! !6 AL. Homr on the M de of breeding the foetal blood. The enbryo in these aiimalstherefore,fori'n% the intermediate link between the ova that are deposited in, the oviduct, and hatched there, and the foetus formed in thea uterus it resembles the first, in the mode by which the foetal blood is aerated and the second, in the situation in which it is deposited, and in the mode of its being supplied with nourishinent after birth. In quadruepeds in general, and the human species, the fcetal blood is aerated in a very different manner, from1 that which has been described; for although the fotal circulation sernds a portion of its blood to the whole Qf the membranes in which the embryo is inclosed, as in oviparous animals, the influence of the external air is excluded from the coats of the uteru s to which these membranes every where adhere. The foetal blood is however close enough to that in the vessels of the uterus, to have the air in the maternal blood communicated, to it. There are three different structures of the membranes of the foetus for this purpose ; one of these is the whole of the foetal membrane next the uterus, being extremely vascularas in the horse and ass; the second, is having only particular portions of it loaded with blood vessels, as in the deer;the third, is having only one large mass, into which the foetal blood vessels pass to a certain depth, beyond which is a cel. lular structure, filled with blood from the arteries of the uterus, and taken up by the uterine veins, so that in this instance, there is a greater mass of blood belonging to the mother, nearly in contact with the foetal blood, than in other animals. From the series of facts which has been detailed, it appears that o ygen is essentioxily necessary for the action of the of the OZv'iviparous Shark, &-c. 17 Vivfying principle in all classes of animals; and that it is not simply applied to the blood, but mixed with that fluid while circulating in the arteries, since, if t<is were not the case, there would be no means of aerating tOe fe'tal blood in the higher orders of animais.& Experments ot the Jelly formed in the Oviduct of the Frog, and' Ovivivizfrous Slark, by Mr. W. Brande, F. Rfm S. The substance contained in the oviduct of thefrog, is of a' whitish colour, nearly opaque and extremely viscid, It does not mix with water, ubt at common temperatures expands slowly in that fluid; to about twelve times its original bulk. At a temperature of 1 0o, this expansion is much-more con-siderable, and the substance puts on the appearance ofan attenuated andnearly transparent jelly, but none of it is dissolved. The expansion seems to depend on the absorption of water by the gelatinous substance, the proportion of water taken up being very great. A piece of the unexpanded substanice of ti e size of a large pea, requires rather less than three ounces of water for its complete expansion, and-a mass of jelly equal in -bulk to three ounces is formed. This su bstaancedried at a temperature of 212?, becomes brittle, but when it is put in this state, into moderately warm water, it aain expands, becoming nearly as bulky as before, Digested in alcohol it becomes brittle and opaque, and conr tracts to about one half of its original bulk. If in this contracted and perfectly brittle state, it be put-into warrn water, it again expands as before. But when once expanded, t is ni ther' hardened nor coagulated by alcohol., 218 A1f. W. BRANDE WI the Yefly I-t is soluble in' nitric, sulphuric, and muriatic acids. Nitric acid, diluted w'ith its weght of water, when poured upon the substance recently removed from the oviduLct, chnanges its colour to a deep yellow, and rapidly dissolves it On the application of a moderate heat This solution is of a pale yellow colour. The caustic fixedl alkalies render it slightly turbid -when not added ijn excess; in this case the mixture becomes perfectly transparent. MIl riatic acid at a boiliing temperature, dissolves the recent substance very rapidly, forming a solution of a deep blue colour,* in which no precipitation is produced by the alkalies. CoIcentrated sulphuric acid dissolves the substance from the oviduct slowly, and forms a pale brown solution. If heat be applied, the colour approaches to black. No change is produced by the alkalies in these sulphuric solutions. TI c substance is very rapidly dissolved by a boiling solution of caustic potash. The compound is imperfectly sapons aceous, its transparency is not disturbed by the addition of s ilphuric or of muriatic acid; but nitric acid added in a small. excess, renders it slightly turbid. None of the solutions which have been described, afford anty precipitation on the addition of tannin, neither does water, in which the substance has been boiled, yield even the smallest traces of gelatine.T he blue colour of this solution, is -instantly destroyed by the addition of an ale kali: it seems to arise from the formation of a very minute portion of prussiate of iroon. Mr. HATCHETT has observed, that some of the varieties of albumen afford a blue solution, when long digested in inuriatic acid: this is probably from the Plane ;;c-use. Phil. Trans. I 8ooq in the Oviducts of the Frog, &c.-, No coagulation is produced in this substance, by VOLTAIc electricity, from 3o double plates of four inches. These experiments shew, that the substance from the oviduct of the frog, is of a peculiar nature: its characteristic property being the remarkable powver of expansion, by the absorption of water. It is distinguished from gelatine by its insolubility in water, and by affording no precipitate withsolutions containing tanr nin: from albumen, by not coagulating on the application of acid, or electricity, and by forming compounds with the al1alies, which are not saponaceous. In some of its other properties, it would appear, as ficr as regards its chemical habitucos, to be a substance, intermediate between albumen and gelatine.. The gelatinous substance from the egg of the dog-fish, has the properties of that from the oviduct of the frog in its exi panded state, and is consequently analogous to what has been termed star.shot jelly. Mr.; HoNoE or. the Mode of breedini EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE IX. An internal view of the belly of the oviviviparous dog-fash squalus acanthias, of IINNTIUS: to show the orgal. of ge ration in their natural situation, when in a state fit for impregnating the female. a The heart. b b rye liver.-The left lobe is cut away to expose the parts behind. c The esophagus. d The cardiac portion of the stomach. e The pyloric portioi. f The small cavity between the pylorus and duodenum. g The duodenum. h h The valvular intestine. i i An appendix to the intestine with which it communicates. k , The testicle. 1 / The vas deferens, the lower portion of which is straight, and distended with semen. nT The cavity which is the reservoir of semen, and urinary bladder. na The kidney. o <the penis. p p Two external openings leading Into the cavity of the albdomen. q q The two holders in their collapsed state. PLATE X. The holders in their extended state, as they appear when the male is clasping the female. In this state of the parts, the of the! Oviviviparous Shark, &c.' ,' penis is brought forward, and projects externally. On each side of it is seen the opening which leads into the cavity of the abdomen. The parts are of the natural size. PLATE XI. An internal view of the abdomen of the female squalus acanthias of LINN3US, to show the organs of generation in the maiden state. a The heart. b b The liver. c c The stomach. d The spleen. e e The valvular intestine. f The appendix. g g The ovaria. h h The openings of the oviducts, by which they receive the ova from the ovaria. i i The course of the oviduct. k k The oviduct on the opposite side. I The clitoris. m m The kidnies. PLATE XII. Shows the oviduct of the squalus acanthias, with the ova in it, and the young fish after it has left the mother; also the ovum of the squalus canicula or oviparous dog-fish, and the young. Fig. i. The oviduct taken out of the body. MDCCCX. G g 29d Mr. HOMED on the Mode of breeding, &c. a The orifice which receives the ova, beyond which the oviduct is slit open. b b The first portion of the oviduct. C c The second portion. d d The third portion, containing the ova inclosed in the capsule; they are three in number; beyond them the capsule comes to a point, and these processes are filled with a transparent jelly. Fig. 2. The young squalus acanthias. Fig. 3. The ovum of the squalus canicula, containing the young fish, with the yolk attached to it; and shewing the slits by which the salt water gets to the membranes of the young: the bristle enters one aperture, and comes through the other. Fig. 4. The young squalus canicula. PLATE XIII. The uterus and lateral canals of the kaiguroo, in the impregnated state. a a The vagina. b b The openings of the lateral canals into it. cc c c The two lateral canals, one laid open. d d The two sides of the uterus. e e The openings of the fallopian tubes. f The imperfect septum of the uterus. g The ovarium slit open to shew the corpus luteum. 7AiloJJ7ranfl2.JSfzt lxi. j'. W. ]til'h . IranW.MCCCX.flateI. p. Zp 2'. jI7.1 j 1 I I i i L-'111-ev __j ,cc. ]h;1os.Th-a v.M-DCC(t'mqp.2Zz. Ii1IN a t V~l a S s_____ -fi _x. -Trans. ZNDCCCX. flatcXf. p. 222. ,'4 4' ;'; :'*'I 1Jev -Phz1g 31-1MM-E /if IPidcos; Trans. MD CCCXJZateX. p. 2 t .N. 