[7] IV. An Account of a remarkable Decrease of the River Eden, in Cumberland: In a Letter to Charles Lord Bishop of Carlisle, F. R. S. from William Milbourne, Esq; My Lord, AS I know your Lordship sometimes condescends to amuse yourself with natural curiosities, I have taken the liberty to send you an account of a very sudden decrease of the river Eden at this place, attended with some particular circumstances, of the exact truth of which I can venture to assure your Lordship. Read Jan. 13, 1763. In the night between the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth of December last, the river Eden, at Armathwaite, fell at least two feet perpendicular. The decrease of the water was so sudden, that several trouts and young lampreys had not time to save themselves, but were found the next morning frozen to death. Of the former, eye-witnesses can speak to fifteen, of the latter, two hundred, all which were found in the extent of no more than forty yards. And several dozens of young lampreys were easily taken up alive, by the hand, in the shallows. The suddenness of the water's decrease, may be so far ascertained, as follows. The miller of Armathwaite-mill left off grinding at twelve o'clock that night, there being then sufficient water to work the mill. He went to the mill the next morning at six, and there was not then water enough to turn the wheel round. It hath not [8] not been known, that the river Eden was ever so low at this place, by a foot, in the dryest summer. The water continued in this state, till about eleven o'clock of the morning of the 29th, and then gradually increased (no rain or snow falling) till about one in the afternoon, by which time it had risen about a foot perpendicular. N. B. The trouts in general were small, the lampreys about ten inches or a foot long. I shall only observe to your Lordship, that there was a most intense frost that night, and a strong wind varying from the North-east to the South-east; and that the river runs here from South-west to Northeast. I am, my Lord, your Lordship's most obedient humble servant, William Milbourne. Armathwaite Castle, Jan. 4, 1763. V. An 