Part of a Letter from Robert More Esq; to Mr. W. Watson F. R. S. concerning the Method of gathering Manna near Naples. A T Arienzo, a Town between Naples and Benevento, I found an Ash. Coppice, of 8 or 10 Years Growth, from which they collect Manna. It seemed to have been tapped two Years for that Purpose; the Branches had been barked each Year about an Inch broad, and two Feet high; but they told me this was done by an Inch at a time. Read June 21. 1750. They place a Cup at the Bottom of the Wound, which they empty every five Days This Liquor becomes Manna. They formerly let it dry upon the Tree; but the present way keeps it cleaner. The Manna begins to run (they say in the Scripture Style to rain) the Beginning of August; and if the Season proves dry, they gather it 5 or 6 Weeks. The King of Naples has so large a Revenue from it, that he is extremely jealous of it, during the Season guards [471] guards the Woods by Sbirri, who even fire upon People that come into them, and he makes the stealing of the Liquor Death. The Season in which I was at Arienzo prevented my seeing the Species of Ash. I believe it to be what our Gardeners call the flowering Ash; the Complexion of the Bark and Bud agrees with one of them I have in my Garden at Lindley. The Man who shew'd me the Wood, told me, it bore a pretty Flower in the Spring. At Pisa in the Physic-Garden they shew'd me that Tree in Bloom as the Manna-Ash. The Tree is indeed common enough in that Neighbourhood: I wonder Mr. Ray does not mention it among the Plants found there by him. The Italians call it Orno. A Botanist at Rome told me it was the Ornus Officinarum. A Physician at Benevento to the same Purpose, that it was the Ornus used in Medicine. A Person is gone from Rome to Naples, who has promised to be very particular in getting you Information of their Manner of curing it. He was bred a Chemist, and told me many Ways of counterfeiting the several Appearances of it. The most common is with Glauber's Salts and Sugar, with a small Mixture of Manna. The Price of Manna at Naples, they told me, was 4 Carlins (41/2d. Sterling each) the Rotolo (32 Ounces). XII. 