Broadway Westminster May 28, 1746. IX. A Letter from Mr. Rob. Lucas, concerning the Relief he found in the Stone from the Use of Alicant Soap and Lime-Water, to his Brother the Rev. Mr. Richard Lucas F.R.S. Dear Brother, I H A V E now the Satisfaction to acquaint you, that, by God's Blessing upon the Means His Providence directed me to the Use of, I am so far recovered of my Distemper (no other than the Stone), that I have not the least Doubt of being quite free from it in a little time. I am continually voiding Stones all broken, white on the Outside, without much Pain. I can now walk twice as fast as I could three Weeks since, without Uneasisiness; nay I rode the other Day at once 24 measur'd Miles, trotting most of it, without Pain or Change of Urine; in one Word, I can be as certain of the dissolving Read March 26. 1747. [464] dissolving Power of my Medicines as I can be without seeing the Dissolution. Dr. Morgan advised me to drink a Pint of Limewater every Day. Colonel Morgan and this Lady coming on a Visit, advised me to take 4 Pills of Alicant Soap Morning and Evening; upon which I resolved to add the Soap Pills to the Use of the LimeWater; only, instead of the Quantity proposed, I took between 20 and 30 a Day, amounting to near an Ounce; which I thought I might safely do, well knowing, that Mrs. Stephens's Prescription amounted to almost 3 Ounces of Soap, besides other Ingredients: Afterwards I found in an Extract published in the Magazine, taken from Dr. Whytt's Treatise about dissolving the Stone in human Bodies, the Prescription of the very Medicine I used; only a Quart or three Pints of Lime-Water instead of a Pint, upon which I doubled my Quantity. I have since borrow'd the Treatise myself, and would earnestly recommend the reading of it to every Person troubled with that Distemper. The Experience the Doctor has had of the real Effect of this Prescription in this Distemper, join'd with the many Experiments I have found of the dissolving Power of Lime-Water and Soap, gave me great Satisfaction. I have used with great Success Stone-Lime newly calcin'd; but by those Experiments it should seem, that the dissolving Power of Lime-Water made of Oyster-Shells is almost double to that of Lime-Stone. There are two good Qualities attending these Remedies; the first is, That they are cheap, easily come at, and prepared by one's self. 2dly, That they may be [465] be safely used for a long time, without Danger to Health, I can vouch by my own Experience; for a Quart of Lime-Water, and an Ounce of Soap, has never given me the least Nauseating, Lowness of Spirits, or Abatement of Appetite, and I think I was never better in Health than I am now. My Motive for being so particular in this Affair, is a Desire to be instrumental, by your means, of giving Ease to others in so unhappy a Condition; being firmly persuaded, that what has already so far reliev'd me, will, if prescrib'd, dissolve Stones of greater Magnitude than I suppose mine to be. From Your affectionate Brother, Robert Lucas. Abergavenny, Dec. 1746. 