Part of a Letter from James Burrow, Esq; F. R. S. to the President, concerning an Earthquake felt near Bury St. Edmund's in Suffolk, and another at Narborough in Leicestershire, on the 30th of September, 1750. Bury St. Edmund's, 2d October, 1750. Dear Sir, T H I S Morning I have been making a Visit at Lord Cornwallis's at Culford; which, I suppose, I need not tell you, is about four Miles from Bury in Suffolk. Lady Cornwallis (whose Read Oct. 25. 1750. [703] (whose Judgment and Accuracy are superior to all Doubt or Exception, and her Veracity still more so), assured me, That on Sunday last, about One o'Clock, as she was sitting and reading in her Dressing-room at Culford, she suddenly felt and saw her Chair and Person move backwards and forwards; so that she searched and examined whether any Dog had got under her Feet and Chair, or any one entered her Chamber unperceived; but found herself absolutely alone in the Room: Whereupon she tried, whether, by laying her Hand or Elbow upon the Table, she could repeat the same Motion, or any thing like it; but could not. She added, that she felt herself a good deal surprised at this extraordinary Sensation, at the Instant of perceiving it: But neither then, nor afterwards, had the least Imagination about an Earthquake; till, upon coming down to Dinner, she was asked by Miss Charlotte Cornwallis, her Second Daughter, a young Lady grown up, `` Whether she `` had not felt the Earthquake? '' Miss Charlotte agreed to the Time; and was herself also sitting and reading in her own Dressing-room, which was one Pair of Stairs higher than her Ladyship's, yet on the same Side of the House. However, it was also felt by Miss Charlotte Cornwallis's Maid-Servant, whose Chamber was in a different Part of the House, and distant from either of the Ladies Apartments; and who was so alarmed at it, as to leave her Room, and come into her young Lady's, to see what was the Matter. No one else in the House perceived it. But Lady Cornwallis says, that, as far as she can learn, they were all upon their Feet; none being sitting, except the three already mentioned. The [704] The House stands alone in the Park: And Lady Cornwallis had declined making any Inquiry amongst the Inhabitants of the adjacent Village; partly, for fear of alarming them with Apprehensions of Danger, of which they would be very susceptible from the Name of an Earthquake; and partly from the little Hopes she could have of procuring any tolerably accurate Account of the Fact from such Reporters. As you have been so careful and exact in collecting the several Histories of those various Shocks, which have been felt in diverse Parts of the Kingdom within these nine Months last past, it will not be unacceptable, I hope, to furnish you with this Supplement to them; especially as none of the former have (as far as I remember) affected these Parts. P. S. Great Finborough-Hall, near Stowmarket, Suffolk, Sunday, 7th October, 1750. Dear Sir, On our Return hither to Mr. Wollaston's, we found a Letter from a worthy Friend of Mr. Wollaston's and mine, Mr. Metcalfe, a Clergyman of Reputation, Sense, and Fortune; who resides at Leicester, and has two Livings near that Place; one at Narborough, the other at Tilton: Out of which I will transcribe a Paragraph, which will serve to confirm Lady Cornwallis's Relation. `` Yesterday [It is dated Leicester, Oct. 1. 1750.], `` about Noon, we were all greatly alarmed with a `` very great Shock of an Earthquake. I was in the `` Pulpit at Narborough; where the whole Church `` shook with such Violence, that the Congregation `` expected [705] `` expected that the Roof was falling in, and run `` out of the Church immediately, leaving the poor `` Parson to shift for himself. I stood my Ground; `` and, by calling to them, and assuring them there `` was no Harm, prevail'd on them to return, and `` make an End of the Duty: But it was with Fear `` and Trembling. It was felt pretty much at Lei`` cester; but how much further, I have not heard.'' Since the Receipt of the above Letter, I have read, in the public News-papers, an Account of its having been also felt at Northampton about the same time. So that no Doubt can remain of the Shock which Lady Cornwallis perceived at Culford, having been a real Earthquake. XLIX. 