A Description Of the Stone-Quarry near Maestrich; communicated by an Observing Person, conversant in that Country. THere is an excellent Quarry, within Canon-shot of Maestrich, upon the very brink of the River Mase, lying in a Hill, where there are about 25 fathoms of Rock and Earth over head; the length of the Hill being of some miles extending along the River towards Liege, scituate on the same River; and near Maestrich having in breadth, some 1/2 or 3/4 of a mile, but some more, farther off. This Quarry hath one Entry towards the River, where Carts can pass with great ease, and unload the Stones upon the brink of the River, the Quarry within lying parallel to the Horizon or level, (which is a great advantage) and elevated but very little above the River. This same Quarry, which hath, well nigh, undermin'd the whole Hill, affords one of the most surprizing Prospects, when well lighted with many Torches, that one can imagine. For, there are thousands of square Pillars in large level Walks, and those almost every where, above 20, and in some places, many more foot high, and all wrought with so much neatness and regularity, that one would think, it had been made rather with curious. Workmanship for an under-ground Pallace, than that those Pillars and Galleries were made by Quarriers, that did it only for getting Stone to build above-ground. This Quarry serveth the People, that live thereabout; for a kind of impregnable Retreat, when Armies march that way. For, being acquainted with all the ways in it, they carry into it whatsoever they would have safe, as well their Horse and Cattel, as their Moveable furniture, till the danger be over; there (2052) there being so vast a deal of room, that 40000 People may shelter themselves in it. And he that would attempt to seek them out in this vast Wilderness of Walks and Pillars, without an expert Guide, would not only be in hazard of loosing his way, but of being knock't in the head at the Corner of every Pillar, where people lurking in the dark with their Carabins and Fowling pieces, would have fair opportunity to shoot them by the light of their own Torches. In this vast Grotto 'tis remarkable, that there is but little Rubbish: which shews both the goodness of the Stone, and the carefulness of the Workmen. And in divers places there are little Pools of Water, perhaps made on purpose for Beasts to drink, and to serve for other uses in time of need: For in no place almost are there any Droppings to be seen; nor are the Walks at all wet under-foot; only it seems, that Rain gets in by the Air-shafts, which, for saving of labour, and perhaps too, to make these Pools, are let down from such places commonly, as are the Pools thereabout; and so the Rain, that falls on the higher grounds, does easily find the way thither. 