(1864) V. Part of a Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. to Dr Hans Sloane, S. R. S. concerning a Leaden Coffin, &c. taken out of a Roman Burying-place near York. Leeds, June 17. 1702. BEing lately at York, I went (as usually) to Mr Montague Gyles's, to enquire if his Servants had retrieved any thing curious in the Roman Burying-place; where, in digging Clay for Bricks, they frequently find Urns, &c. Some of which are accounted for in former Transactions. They very lately found there a remarkable Lead Coffin, which by the Circumstances seems to have been for a Person of Quality; 'twas 9 foot deep in the ground, whereof 6 were Clay, and 3 a black Earth; the Lead Coffin, which was about 7 foot long, was inclosed in a prodigious strong one, made of Oak Planks, about 2 inches and a half thick, which besides the Rivettings were tack'd together with Brags, or great Iron Nails, some of which I pull'd out of the Planks, and have by me; they are 4 inches long, the heads not Die-wise, as the large Nails now are, but perfectly flat, and an inch broad: I have one somewhat different, the Nail itself is half an inch broad, and thin, somewhat in the form of a Wedge, and the Head not round, as the others, but somewhat like the modern Draw-nails; but these old ones are generally square, the 4 sides of an equal breadth: Many of them are almost consum'd with the rust, and the outsides of the Planks, but the heart of the Oak is firm, and the Lead very fresh and pliable; whereas one found about a year ago (whereof I have also a sample) is brittle, and almost (1865) most wholly consumed, having no Planks to guard it: But what I was most surprized at, was, that the Bones should be entire, tho probably interr'd 1500 years ago; for 'tis above so many Centuries since their Custom of Burning gave place to that more natural of Burying their Dead; which, according to Monsieur Muret, was re-introduced by the Antonines, who, being Philosophers and Virtuous Princes, could no longer endure that that kind of Cruelty should be exercised upon Humane Bodies. I have a Thigh-bone (which is wonderful light) and the lower Jaw, which was furnished with all the Teeth, but some of them are since stoln out; but tho the Bones are light, the double Coffins were so heavy, that they were forced to drag them out of their old Dormitory with a Team of Horses. VI. 