j 232 1 XIV. On a Method of examining the Divisions of astronono7mcal Instruments. By the Rev. William Lax, A. M. F. R. S. Lowndes's Professor of Astronomy in the University cf Cambridge. In a Letter to the Rev. Dr. Maskelyne, F. R. S. Astronomer Royal. Read June i, 18og. DEAR SIR, St. Ibbs, Aug. 27, iSo. I AM persuaded that you must feel, in common with myself, how unpleasant it is to make use of an instrument in astrono-. mical observations requiring extreme accuracy, whose exactness you have no adequate means of ascertaining, but are obliged to depend for it in a great measure upon the abilities and integrity of the artist. It is in vain that we observe with so much nicety, and read off with so much precision, if we are still uncertain whether there may not be an error in the instrument itself of much greater magnitude, than those which we are endeavouring to prevent; and that our best instruments must be liable to such errors, no person can possibly doubt, who has paid due attention to the sources from whence they may arise. I have estimated, as accurately as I could, the amount to which they may accumulate in BIRD'S method of dividing by continual bisections, and have satisfied myself that they are much more considerable than is generally apprehended; but as I cannot obtain such precise information as I could wish, respecting the exactness with which a bisection can be performed, or a length taken from the scale of equal Mir. LAX on a AMethod, &c., All Parts and laid upon the instrument, I will not trouble you with the deduction which I have made. It is undcrstood indeed, that BIRD'S method is now generally laid aside, and that each artist employs one, which he considers in many respects as peculiar to himself; but I presumed that there would still be such a connection betwixt BIRD'S method and those wx lich have been substituted in its stead, as to render them in some degree liable to the same errors to which it was subject, and the reports which I have uniformly received from persons, who have had an opportunity of examining some of the modern instruments, have fully convinced me that my opinion was just. But whatever may be the nature of the methods which are now in use, or whatever their advantages over BIRD'S, I never could persuade myself that it would be safe to trust to an inl strument, without a previous examination. To discover the means of accomplishing this object, is what I have for some time been anxious to effect, and though I fear my endeavours have not been very successful, I will nevertheless take the liberty of presenting you with the result. You are aware, I believe, that I use a circular instrument for observing both in altitude and azimuth, which was made for me by Mr. CARY in the Strand; that the radius of both the altitude and the azimuth circle is one foot, and that each is divided into parts containing ten minutes. The construction of this instrument does not differ materially from that of other similar instruments, with which you are well acquainted, and I shali not therefore waste your time by giving you a particular description of it. For the purpose of examining the divisions upon the two circles, I procured an apparatus to be prepared by Mr. CARY, which will be very easilv explained. 234 4Mr. LAX On -a Method of examining To the face of the rim which surrounds the azimuth circle, and with its left end close to the stand which supports the micrometer on the east side, an arc of brass, concentric with the circle itself, and a little inore than g9Q in length, an inch in breadth and one eighth of an inch in thickness, is firmly fixed by screvs, so as to have the plane paralle Ito the plane of the circle, and a small portion of its lower surface resting upon the extreme part of the rim. The screws pass through a brass arc, which is fastened to this at right angles, and lies with its broad side against the face of the rimUpon the first mentioned arc, a strong upright piece of brass, about six inches in length, is made to slide, the lower part of it embracing the arc as a groove and having a clamping screw underneath, for the purpose of fixing it firmly to the arc at any point rev quLired. To the top of the upright piece of brass is attached a microscope, with a moveable wire in its focus, pointing down to tbe division upon the circle, not directly, however, but with an inclination to the left of about Se. This inclination is given to it, in order to make it point to the same division upon the circle, which is immediately under the micrometer itself, when it has Uneen moved up as near to the micrometer, as it is capable of approaching. The microscope has attached to it a small graduated circle of brass, and an index, by which the seconds, and parts of a second, moved over by the wire are deteruiined. To the vertical circle there is likewise an arc applied, of the samrie length and breadth as he former, but somewhat thicker, and of a radius exceeding that of the circle by about two inches. This greater thickness is given to it, on account of its being supported in a manner which renders additional the Divisions of astronomical In truments. 235 strength necessary. It is fixed with its broad convex side downwards upon two brass pillars, screwed fast to the plane of the azimuth circle, and standing in a line parallel to the plane of the vertical circle at the distance of about four inches from it, and on the right side of the pillars which support the micrometers belonging to this circle. The pillar, to which the left end of the arc is fastened, is placed close to the lower micrometer of the vertical circle, and the other contiguous to the elevated riin, in which the divisions of the azimuth circle are cut. The right end of the arc reaches beyond this pillar about ten inches. The pillars are of such a height, and so proportioned to each other, that vhilst the left end of the arc, which lies horizontally, is raised to within about two inches of the height at which the lowgest point of the vertical circle is placed, the whole arc runs parallel to the circle through an extent of something more than g90. Upon the arc a microscope, with a 'moveable wire 'in the focus, is made to slide as in the former case, and to point to the divisions upon the vertical circle, not directly, but x ith an inclination of about go' to the left, in order that the same division (which is the lowest upon the circle) may be seen through it, and through the lower tnicrometer at the same time. I will now proceed to shew you, in what manner the exam~ination of the divisions upon either circle may be performed. The process is precisely the same in both cases, and will of course be described in the sa ie words. The first point to be examined is that of 180, which must be done in the usual way, by bringing the points of o and 1800 to the moveable wires of the opposite micrometers and then turning the circle halfway round, and bisecting the points 236 Mur. LAX on a Method of exanlzng again with the moveable wires; and lastly, taking half the difference betwixt the distances of the wires in tihe two positions of the circle for the error at the point of i8o?. Having now bisected the -point of zero wvith the moveable wire of the micromneter which is intended to be used in the rest of the process (for we shall have no further occasion for both), we must slide the microscope along the arc, till by moving the wire a little we can bisect the point of g9, and then the micrometer must be firmly clamped to the arc. The circle must then be turned till the point of 1800 is brought to the microscope, and that of 900 to the micrometer, so that we mnay be ableto bisect each by a slight motion of their respective wires. This being done, we must observe, from the positions of the wires, how much the interval betwixt them has increased or decreased in the measurement of the new arc; and this inrcrease or decrease must be noted down with a + or ac. cordingly. In the same manner we must proceed through the reinaining two arcs of 900, observing and noting down the difference betwixt each and the original arc. The point of zero must now be brought again to the mnicrometer, and bisected by the moveable wire, and the microscope be made to slide back along the arc, till by moving the wpire a little -we can bisect the point of 600, and when this is doIne, the microscope must be clamped. We must then measure the arc of 600 against every succeeding arc of 600 in the circle, precisely in the same way that we measured the first arc of go0 against the other three. The arc of 450 is next to be measured against every succeeding arc of 45', arid this will complete all that is necessary to be done in the early part of the morning before the heat of the sun can have affected the the Div!iZ'ions of astronomi ca Instruments. 235 temperature of the instrument. The rest may be performed at our leisure. You will immediately perceive the object of this kind of measurement. It enables us todetermine, with any degree of accuracy that may be required, the proportion which the first and every succ~eding are of the circle, contained betwixt the micrometer and the microscope, bears to the whole circle, and of course the absolute length of the arcs themselves. Let a denote the real length of the first of these, and + a + a" ? a"', &C. the difference betwixt the first and second, the first and third, &c. respectively; let A represent any other are whose length is known, and which is a multiple of a, as marked upon the instrument, and let this, multiple be expressed by n. Then will a + (a + a') + (a + a"I) + (a + a?") + &c. {nt..*. iA IA"a-(a Hence I (a + a " ) A) and a =Hence t is evident that if there is no error committed in the measurement of any of these arcs, we shall have the value of a, and consequently of a + a', a + a", 4at', &c. and of any arc, comuprehending any number of these, accurately determined. But if there be an error of e in the measurement of the first, of , e", e") &c. in the measure nent of the second, third, &c, respectively, then weshall have the following equation for determin-iing a viz. a + (a + a' + e 4 e') + (a + a" + e Ani 4. e") + &c. ... (a, . a 4 e 4. e" ) A, and consequently a will appear to be equal to Aa.-. a" _ a it E -X iee'_ e"_ ,,, e...n1 n I ,which diffiers from its true value by . Hence it follows, that the value of MDCCCIXP I i Mr. LAX on a Method of examining theptb arc (p being greater than unity), as deduced by this pro. cess, willdiffer from its true value byt e + e'+ el+._l".. P y ~~~n + el ... t..+-e--e"'e ,and that if we add any number p of these arcs together, in order to determine the value of the arc which is equal to their sum, we shall have an error in this value (andthe expression holds when p is unity, or the first arc only is taken) equal top + ...e n n n _ e e_ . e ... _ + el"' ' P + e"' .. P + + e"'. fl I n Now, if we suppose e to be the greatest error to which we are liable in the measurement of any arc, and each of the succeeding errors to be equal to it, and likewise that e', e"l ... e" *' -I are all negative, then it will appear that tamp x Ape will be the greatest error that can be committed in determining the value of any arc, by adding together the values Jf the (p) smaller arcs of which it is compounded. For instance, if the interval betwixt the micrometer and the mir croscope comprehends an arc of 6C0, as marked upon the instrument, and this arc is measured against every succeeding arc of 6o6 in the whole circle, we shall have the greatest error that can be committed in deducing the arc of 120 from the addition of the two first arcs of 6o, equal to 6 x2X2e=2.66e. After these remarks, we may proceed to consider how-the remaining divisions upon the circle may be examined with the least probable error, and to ascertain the amount of the great.. est to which the process can in any case be liable. the Divisions of astronomical Instruments. 237 Let the arc of 300 be now measured against every succeeding arc of Soo in the first, third, fourth, and sixth arcs of 600, and let the length of each be determined from a separate comparison with the arc of 60, in which it is comprehended, and not from a general comparison with all the four. The arc of 1,5 must then be measured against every succeeding arc of 15, in the firstthird, fourth, sixth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and twelfth arcs of Soe, and the value of each deduced from a comparison with the arc of Se, in which it is contained. When this is done, we shall have determined the length of every succeeding arc of i5, of the first arcs of 0, 45, 6o, 7 6 (-Co + IS), 9?g ~ ~~ iO (-?+S 2 o-6o + 6o), 1tt35 (90 + 4 0, 90, 105 (9o+1s) 2 :Gob) 3 (1+4), EGo (= 12o + So), 165 (i5o + i5), and i8o' in each sea mi-circle. We must next measure the arc of Ad against every succeeding arc of 5 in the whole circle, and deduce the values of the first, and of the sum of the first and second, in each succeeding arc of 150 from a comparison with the arc of i5 in which they are contained. We must then proceed to determine the values of the first arc of 3' in each i5i, and of its multiples the arcs of 6, 9, and 1i2. We must also put down the value of the last arc of 3' in each arc of i~, and then de. duce the values of the first and last arcs of 10 in each arc of id, from a comparison with the arc of Ao in which they are respectively contained. We shall now have measured in each are of le the first arcs of i, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 120, and by taking the last arc of one degree , which has likewise been determined, from the arc of it, Mwe shall obtain the first arc of i,. The first 70 of this arc being measured against the second, we ascertain the value of the first 70; and then, by measuring the first e of the reI i 1.58 Mr. LAX on a Method of examining naining arc of 80 against the second, we shall get the value of the first 4t, which added to the arc of 70, before detertnited, will give us the length of the first arc of i ig. rTh first 20 Of the remaining arc of 4' must then be measured against 1-t-he second, and we shall get the value of the first ad and by adding this arc to the arc of i i0, we shall obtain the value of the-arc of i Ad. By taking away the first arc of 10 from the arc of 1i,5 we get the remaining are of 140, and then having determined the length of the first 70 of this arc, by measuring them against the second, we must add it to the are of i?, and we shall obtain the arc of 30. The length of the first 40 of this arc will then be easily known, by measuring them against the second, as will afterwards that of the first 20 in the arc of 4' itself, by measuring them against the second in the same arc. We have still to ascertain the lengths of all the first arcs of 10o, 20, 30 40, and Go minutes contained in each degree, for I shall only consider the case in which the circle is divided into parts of lo minutes. Now the length of the first arc of so' will be obtained by measuring it against the second, and the lengths of the first and second arcs of 20' (whose sum will give the arc of 4o') by measuring the first against each of the remaining arcs. The length of the third arc of 2o' must likewise be put down, and then the first arc of lo' being measured against the second of the arc of o0', hi which it is included, and also against the two arcs of to' contained in the last arc of ot', its own value, and that of the last i o' in the degree will be determined from a comparison with the arcs of ?o', in which they are respectively comprehended. The length of this last arc of io' lbeing taken from that of the whole degree, will give us the length of the first 5o', and complete the operation. the Divisi'ons of astronomical Instruments. .39 In order to ascertain the greatest possible error to which we are liable in the examination, let P denote in parts of a secornd the greatest that can be committed in bisecting any point upon the Iii-rib; then, since this error may occur at each end of the arc, it is evident that e in the expression deduced above px se) will become 2 g, and the expression itself n-ze n x 4pe. Hence the possible error will be 2 I 4E= at 1800; 2 -+ ix4e3e at go'0 ; I +; at3 6t6X 2 + 3 32 X 4 x 2e 4e at 10 0o. The greatest error must there3 fore lie betwixt go and 1200, and nearer to the extremity of the latter than of the former arc. At lAou' it will be 5.5oe; at i11 'it will be l50o 2.t,4S+ x 9 X 4 X 9,7oe; and at Ad10 io'nit will be 9,70? -f A~s 04 (the excess of the error at 1 1 l above that at 1 120) + i2 = .86e, which will be found to be the greatest error betwixt 105 and i oo, and of course the greatest in the first semi-circle. In the other semicircle, the process being the same, the possible errors must necessarily be the saine at the same distances from the first point, reckoning the contrary way upon the circle. The magnitude of the quantity s will of course vary upon circles of the same radius, according to the excellence of the glass employed, and the accuracy of tfhe examiner's eye. It will seldom, however, exceed one second upon a circle, whose radius is one foot; and in general it will not amount to so much. I find that I can read off; to a certainty, within less than three fourths of a second, and hence I conclude, that I could examine the divisions of my circle without being liable to a greater error than 9.63 seconds, and those of a circle of A40 AMr. LAX of a Metbod of examining three feet radius without the risk of a greater error than 3,21 seconds. To those people who are accustomed to entertain such exalted notions of the accuracy with which astronomical instruments can with a certainty be divided, this error, I dare say, will appear very considerable; but for my part, I am perfectly satisfied that it bears but a small proportion to the accumulated error which may take place, in spite of the utmost vigillance of the artist, in an instrument divided according to any method which has hitherto been made public. I need not, however, remark upon the very great improbability that the error of examination should ever attain, or approach, to its extreme limit, as this must be sufficiently obvious to any person who is in the least degree conversant with the doctrine of chances; but it may be proper to observe, that we have it in our power (and in this respect the examiner possesses a most important advantage over the divider of an instrument) to diminish its probable amount, as much as we please, by bringing the moveable wires of the micrometer and microscope several times to bisect their respective points in the measurement of every arc, and taking a mean of the different readings-off for the true position of the wire at the real bisection of the point. The wire may be moved in this manner 'eight or ten times at each point (if such a degree of' caution should be thought necessary), and the mean taken in little more than a minute, so that the time of performing the work will not be so much increased, as might perhaps have been apprehended, and when it is completed, we may reasonably presume that the distance of every point from zero (whilst the temperature of the circle continues uniform) will have been the Divisions of astronomical Instruments. 241 determined with sufficient exactness for every practical purpose. Of the time necessary for the examination, a pretty correct idea may be formed by considering how many measurements are required, and allowing about a minute and a half for each; i, e. a quarter of a minute for bringing the extreme points of the arc to the micrometer and the microscope, and a minute and a quarter for making the several bisections. Now, in dividing the whole circle into arcs of i, each, it will appear that forty-four measurements must be performed; and to examine every point in each arc of 1i', there will be i6i required, making in all 3908 measurements; and consequently the time necessary for completing the whole work will be 5862 minutes, or about 98 hours. The titne and labour required for this examination are, no doubt, very considerable; but it ought to be recollected, that it will render any great degree of precision, in dividing the instrument, totally unnecessary. Whoever indeed employs this method of examinination will be virtually the divider of his own instrument, and all that he will ask of the artist, is to make him a point about the end of every five or ten minutes, whose distance from zero he will determine for himself, and enter in his book to be referred to when wanted. We may likewise observe that by this examination we shall not only be secured against the errors of division, but against those which arise from bad centering, and from the imperfect figure of the circle, and which in general are of too great a magnitude to be neglected. It will, I dare say, have occurred to you, that whenever we are desirous that an observation should be particularly exact, Al Mr. LAX on a Method of examining we may guard it against the effects of unequal expansion or contraction iin the metal, by means of the apparatus which I have described: for we have only to measure the arc which has been determined by the observation against the whole circle, or against the multiple of it, which approaches nearest to the circle, and from thence to deduce its value in the man. ner explained above, and we shall either have entirely exz cluded the error which we apprehended, or hlave rendered it too small to be of any importance. Suppose, for instance, that the arc determined by the observation was 48t; then by ineas suring it against the whole circumference increased by an arc of 240, we shall obtain a result free from any greater error of unequal temperature, than one eighth of the increase or decrease of this arc of 24. beyond a due proportion to that of the circle itself. This expedient gives us all the advantages of the French circle of repetition, without the inconvenience arising from being obliged to turn the instrument, and move the telescope, so many times in the course of the observation. Nay, I -am persuaded, that the result may be made more accurate in this way, than by the French method, because not only can the object be more frequently observed, but the contacts or bisectilons it may be presumed, will be more exact when the obW server is not disturbed by the hurry attendant upon the use of the repeating circle ; and with respect to any error in the instrument, from, whatever cause it may arise, it will be as effbctually excluded by the process which I recomtnend, as by moving the telescope round the circle. Besides this method is applicable either to the azimuth or altitude circle, or indeed to any circle which turns upon its own axis, whereas t(be Divisions ofrastronomical Instruments. ?45 the French method can never be applied to the azimuth circle, nor to any other circle which does not turn both upon its own axis, and upon one which is perpendicular to it. After all, however, it is possible that the process which I have been explaining to you may be no new discovery, and that you may b)e already acquainted with it. If this should be the case, you will be kind enough to inform me. At any rate,, indeed, I should esteem myself greatly obliged, if you would favour me with your sentiments upon the sub'ject, as soon as you can do it with perfect convenience to yourself. I am, Dear Sir, yours, &c. WILLIAM LAX, MDCCCIX, Kk 