(971) An Accompt of some Books. I. T H O M AE H O B B E S Quadratura Circuli, Cubatio Sphaerae Duplicatio Cubi, confutata, Auth. J O H A N N E W A L L I S S. T. D. Gcometriae Professore Saviliano, Oxon. 1669. in 40. WHen the Publisher intended to give notice to the World of Mr. Holbes's Book very lately come abroad, concerning the Quadrature of the Circle &c. he soon found another, containing both that and the Consuration of it together. The Author of this Confutation observeth two grand mistakes in Mr. Hobbs's Tract; the first in the Demonstration of his first Proposition, where these words, Aut ergo in Triangulo A G G, triangulum rectangulum, cujus vertex sit A, aequale Sectori A C L sumi nullum potest; aut P Q L, C Y P, sunt aequalia, are upon our Authors Examination not at all prov'd, nor true. It seems, M. Hobbs had only prov'd, That If P Q L, C Y P, be equal, Then such a Triangle may be; but not the Converse, If those be not equall, then such a Tringle cannot be. For, if P Q L be notequall, but a little bigger than C Y P; and consequently, the Right-angled Tringle A Y Q so much bigger than the Sector A C L; it is manifest, that a Line drawn parallel to the Base QY, a little nearer to the Vertex A, may cut off a like Right-angled Triangle(a little less then A Y Q) which may be equall to the Sector A C L. Besides this (which overthrows all, in the examiners Iudgement) the other great mistake of M. Hobbs is alledged to be in the Demonstration of the second Proposition; where (supposing by the first Proposition a square found equall to a Circle) he argues, That, because the Square takes in as much of what is left out by the Circle, as the Circle takes in of what is left out by the Square; therefore a Cube answering to that square compared with a Sphere answering to that Circle, will doe so too: (which would have been well argued, saith the Examiner of a Cylinder on that Circle, of equal height with a Cube V v v v 2 that (972) that Square; but not so of a Sphere.) So that he seems here to have mistaken a Cylinder for a Sphere. Besides these two (which doe influence all that follows) Mr Hobbes also, in his 2d Figure, supposeth (untruly, faith Dr Wallis) without proof, That (on the common Center A) the Arches drawn by Y. O. h, will cutt the Line A G in the same points b, c, l, where the streight Lines e b, z c, k l, (parallel to C G) doe cut the said Line A G: (which do influence all those Propositions, which depend on these Suppositions.) Other particular mistakes observed by our Author are here omitted. N. On this occasion the Reader is made acqainted, that all the works of Dr Wallis, which of late have been scarce, are now to be had at the Shop of Moses Pitt Bookseller at the White Heart in Little Brittaine. II. H I S T O R I A G E R A L D E E T H I O P I A A A L T A, Em Conimbra A. 1660. in fol. This History written in the Portuguese Language, as tis now moulded, by Padre Balthezar Tellez, Provincial of the Iesuits of Portugall, out of that of Padre Manoel d' Almeyda, was not seen, I think, herein England before now, an Exemplar of it having been lately transmitted and presented to the R. Society from Lisbon by Padre Hieronyme Lobo (one of the same order) by the care of Sir Robert Southwell Knight, his Majesties Envoy Extraordinary to that Court. Passing by the accompt and relations,given in this Book,concerning the kingdoms and Provinces, comprehended under the Abyssin Empire, and its customs, Government, Militia, Citties, Revenues, Emperors, Religion, Discoveries and pretended Conversions there made by the Portuguese, together with the Contradictions and Disappointments, which those of Religious Orders have met with in that Empire; We shall only take notice here of the Heads it contains of a Philosophicall nature: Concerning which there is to be found a good description of the true Head and Course of the River Nile together with a plaine Mapp thereof; as also of the Lake Dembea, through which (973) which the said River passeth, and of all the Cataracts of it; and then of the Climate, and Temperature, Mountains, Fertility, Herbs, Trees, Animals Wild and Tame, and the inclinations of the inhabitants; besides, of the Read Sea, and the reason of its Appellation: Touching which particulars we must not here enlarge, but remit the Reader to the Book it self; or (since Copies of it are difficult to be had) to the Relations lately English'd by Sir Peter Wych, and printed for Mr Iohn Martyn; wherein the mai e passages, which conc rne the Natural productions and other Curious Observables of that vast Country, are described. III. An H I S T O R I C A L E S S A Y Endeavouring a Probability, That the L A N G U A G E of C H I N A is the Primitive Language; by Iohn Webb Esquire. Printed for Nath. Brook in London, 1669. in 80. This sarprising Essiy attempts to make it out from Authorities, Judged by the Writer thereof unqueftionable, That the Chinese have been a people, ever since the Flood of Noah and before the Confusion of Tongues (at which they were not present in his opinion;) That their Language hath continually in all times, from their first beginning of being a Nation, been preserv'd in written Books; That the Characters, wherein those Books be written, are the self same, which from all Antiquiry were extracted from their Original Hieroglyphicks; That in those Characters their Language hath ever since consisted, and, according to them, is at this present day spoken purely; and that by the same Characters their Language is generally understood through the whole Chinese world: From all which, considered together, the Author concludes, that the Mother or Natural-Language of China remaines in its Antient purity without any alteration. How credible the Allegations here deliver'd, and how cogent the Discourses and Inferances, grounded thereon, are, we must leave to the Iudgement of the sagacious Reader; and shall only further take notice of the singular diligence of this Author ia collecting occasionally and abbreviating many of the most reremarkable (974) markable Observations of China recorded by the best Writers of that Empire. E.g. That the Chinese have had the Use of Letters longer by farr, than any other people; that the remote parts of Asia were planted before the dilpersion of Babel; that China was the first planted Contry after the Flood; that those Plantations were undertaken and setled before the remove o shinaar (the plaine where Babel was a building;) that the Chinese have diffus'd themselves to Corea, Iapan, Iava, Ceylon, Siam, Cambori, and Madagascar, ifnot Mexico, itself; that the China-wall hath lasted near 2000 years, and yet is not injured by time; that the Tartars are become Chinese, not these Tartars, to the preservation of the Mother-tongue of China; that the Cbinese have subsisted 4000 years without any commixture with other Nations; that Commerce and Conquest have had no influence to hcange the Laws, Customs, or Language of that people; that the Historical Computation of the Chinese begins from 2207. years before Christ, which falls out with the 40th year before the Confusion of Tongues; that no Nation in the world is comparable to them for certainty in Chronology, &c. And as to their Ingenuities and Arts, he notes,That the Loadstone and Compass hath been in use among them above 1100 years, and Paper-and Ink-making, above 180. years, both before Christ; that they prepare Ink of the smoak of oyle; that they have been long acquainted with the Invention of Gunpowder, and Fireworks, as also with the Manufacture of making and dying of Silk, invented by one of their Empresses; that their Potters mystery and the manner of making Porcelain vessels excels all other practises of that kind; and that they themselves do so much esteemit, as that they will not be served in Plate; that the Earth for making Porcelaine is to be had in the sole Province of Nanking, but that there they cannot make any Vessels of it, (whether it be from the quality of the water or wood, or ten per of the fire, is not known;) but must transport it to Sinclesimo in the Province of Kiangsi;that that Eirth is very leane, fine, and shining like Sand, which they temper in water to reduce into the fashion of little square lumps; that they prepare and fashion it almost after the same manner as the Italians do make their Faenza-dishes, or as the Hollanders, in (975) in making their White Potters-work; that they make use of Indigo or Woad in painting their work with blew; but that for all this knowledge there remaines still something, necessary to make these vessels aright, which they keep very secret, insomuch that he passeth amongst them for one of the greatest Criminals, that revea's this Art to any but his own Children. Lastly, as to their Art of Printing, which was invented among them about 50. years after Christ, their manner is, That they cut their Letters with an instrument of Iron, (as we doe Wood-prints) upon some fit wood; lightly gluing the Written Copy thereon, whereby their Books are free from Errata's. They are very dextrous at it, and will cut a whole sheet, as soon as a Composer with us can set one; and one man will print off 1500. in a day. They have also this conveniency,that their Forms may be laid by for as many impressions as they please, and in the mean time print off no more copies, than they find sale for, &c. IV. An E X A M E N of the way of T E A C H I N G T H E L A T I N T O N G U E by Vse alone. Englished out of French, and printed for Mr Martyn in London, 1669. in 12o. As Montagne learnt the Latin tongue by Vse alone, his Father having plac'd him in his Child-hood with such persons as spake nothing but that Language with him; so does the Auther of this Book undertake to shew, that without much difficulty the like may be done with others, confirming what he saith, first, by an Example of a Boy, who having been bred, as soon as he was wean'd, (which was at the 22th month of his Age) like Montagne, speaks Latin frankly and properly, being hardly four years old, and hath been seen by the King and all the Court at Paris: secondly by two other Children, both very young, that are entred into the same conduct, and in a very hopeful way of success. To which the Author subjoyns a Discourse of the great Vsefulness of this Method, the maine advantage of it being,that Children may employ in Learning Arts and Advertisements, 1. THe Reader is desired, to insert in Numb.47. p.951. sect. 10. after these words, Why it goes too fast, this Note (as it may happen, when by some accident the Cheeks retaine not their proper figures.) And now if it should be said, that upon any foulness the Watch will goe faster by reason of the shorter Vibrations of the Pendulum, it is to be considered, That this is only true when the Watches have no Cheeks, but when they haue them (as in those hitherto used) 'tis not so. 2. If it should be demanded, Why in the same Tract use hath not been made of Tycho's AEquation of Time, nor of that of Bullialdus, but one is given different from both? The Answer is, That the Table, there publisht, is the Difference of the Right Ascension of the Sun at Noon from the Mean motion, accounting from th 1st of February; which must be the true AEquation; unless the Velocity of the Earth's Motion about her own Axis be not constantly the same. 