: 374 3 XIX On t@ CausE 0 the additional Meight which Metals a¢^ qulre by being calcined. In a Letter from George Fordyces M. D F. R. S. to Sir Joseph I3anks, Bart. P. R. S. Read JuneX g :t7g* SIRS ALTHOUGH many chemists a:re at present satisfiecl of the nola entity of what was formerly suppowd to be a body callecR phlogiston, and considered as alel eletnent £ontained in lxletals when in their metallic form, yet this supposition has intervvroven itself so much into chemistry in general, and has been so unisrersally received, that it may-tlot be stlperfluous to relate the following experirnents. If you are of that opinionS I shall be obliged to you if you will lay them before the Royal Society. When a man begins to malQe an experiment^ however svell .digested his plan lmay be. lle finds, when he comes to put it in executiony that he 1USt make a great ntlmber of experitnents L)efore he can bring the fact to be proved, or disproved, fairly -in issue; if I may take a phrase frotrA 1asv, there are first mally buts and rebuts. It has often been the practice to bring all this previous matter before the public. This practice may be rery proper, although it does llot seem so to me, and therefore I have not troubleci the Society with the difficulties and disappointments I have met with; but have brought the simple ex.periments forwarct in such manner as-that they call Dr. FORDSCE on tbe Calse of th-e vdditional Meight Ac. 37Svbe easily repeated by any person who is at all rersed in che mistry, and possesses -those luoSt necessary qualifications irtthis scierce? patience and accuracy. I amj Sir, Your most obliged hlllnble sersrantf Gi FORDYCEcft has been a great deslderatum a;lmong chemists to detertnine the cause of the additional weight wllich lnetals acquire when they are calcined. To investigate this subject, I had begun the follonving experiment many years ago, but warious other engagements have sc) zuuch interruptedl me, that I have had but little time to pursue any other chemical inquiry than such as were neces-sary to form the catalogue of the ores and tinerals in Dr. HUNTER'S museum. There is great difficulty itl chooslng the metal on which in quiry should be instituted, on account of the differences of their calces. After a nutnber of trials, I chose ZillC, AS that whose calces appeared to diSer the least from one aruc)ther; in other ^respects there are great objections to it likewise but whicl may be got over. I took a portion o£ the zint I employed, and dissolved it in vitriolic acid, with which it znade a clear solution (without -any of that hlack luatter which commonly separates cluring its solutioll when we employ zinc imported from abroad). After precipitating it by an alkali, and exposing the calx to the air, it remained of a pure white ; so that it could contain no ironO This zinc was reduced to its perfect metallic form by breaking it irlto small particles, and meltirlg it with black flux, taliing t11at part of it -only whicll was at the bottom of the crucible. SC 2 3 >. hRDYCE X U aal F0tI reduced this nzetal to a calx, by dissolving it in vitriolic acid diluted with waters and precipitated it by kali purum dit -solved itl water In doing this the acid shoultl be dilllted with bur or five tlmes its weight of vvtater atld the zinc should be dissolvecl very slowly, avoiding 11eat as much as pkossible during the solution. If this precaution is IlOt taken, a; quantity of firolatile vitriolic acid svill be produced and spoil the experiment. Ill the precipitatiotl the alliali is apt to re-dissolve the calx if Gare be not taken to use it ill solution in water and that the solution TS diluted with a large quantity of water: the proportion Vi-n snrhich the water is itl aqua hali puri of the Lolldon Dis pensatory is a conY@nient solution offthe alkali. C:are must likewise be takens in ttle precipitation,that the solu tion of the kali be poured illtO the solution of the zigum vitriolatuun in wrater by a little at a times arld that tlle szrhole be perfectly m-ixed together l;efbre a fresh quantity is poured itl, otherwise part of the cals will be re-dissolved. It is firther necessary -that the exact qualltyty of kZi putum be uwd: iwf too little is used, the whole calx will not he separated ; if too much part of the calx will be re-dissolvedw It is also newssary that the alkali be perfectly pure, especially free ko3n fixed air,$ &s that sstould be transfErred to the calx, and as it flies off when the kali is sinlply united wsith vitriols acid, the acouracy of the experiment would be thus destroyed. The weight of the calx) by whicll it exceeds the weight . . . * I use the name of fixed air} although certainly not proper, in order X avoid rlanning into conision by employing those which have beerl given to thi¢ substanct until the plurality of voices shall £s an appropriated name to its t w1pich AIetals arcquire by being calcineR.377of the tnetal, sllews that tluere is a substalnce added to the whole snetalL; or, that white some substan(e is driven ofE, another is added i-ni g<teater quaztity ; since it is c.lear from vavious experirlaerwts we11 knovZll to this leartled body) that all matter ;ravitates, axnd titat a11 the subs";atlces fourad in this earth, wshich haxre beetl tried, gravitate equalltr. This additional matter must be added to the metal eitlaer from the acid, tlle alkali, the s7ater used ilr the solution, the air lying oll the surface of the materials durirlg t-he time of the operation, or it must cotne through the vessels ill which the operaltion is perforl;ned. To aswrtain this, I mlGtde the followirlg experimerlt. I tQOi a large qualltity of vitriolic acid, purified by distillation (about txwo poursds, it not beitlg material what qualltity was takell exactly)g I diluted it with distilled vnlater about four or fve titnes its sveight by guess (the exact proportion being also immaterial), I applied t;o 1ooo graitas of this diltlted acict a sufficiellt quant;ity lor saturation of czquct kali puri, of tT<e Lon(lon Dispensatory, rerldered pure from fixed air, as is pre scribed in the process of the College; I poaared in the aq kalipuri to tile diluted acid, by a little at a tiinen until it was nearly saturated. I then poured in sotne juice of violets, which gave the vhole a red colour. I cotltirlued to add aqua kali puri, by a little at a time, until the recl colour just disappeared. I added the aqua kali tgri to the acid, ratlaer thala the acid to tlle alkali, because the 1QSS of tlae red colour at the point of saturation can be discerned mucll better tilan tlae loss of the yellow colour, which the alkali intermXes with the natural blue. I ascertained the weight of tlle aqucl kali puri, by Sweighing the bottle colltainin$ it before any vvas poured into tX acida 578 Dr. FORDYCE on the Cause of tbe addltlonal Meightalad after the saturation took place; the deficiency of weight afterwards beingothe weight of the .quattali puri applied to the acid for the saturation; this was zoI47 grains. I also weiglled the vessel with the acid before the aqua kali puri was poured ina and afterwards; and found the increase of weight to beexactly the same as the weight of the aquol kali puri alld juice of violets, so that nothing ras lost during the operation. This experiment was three tiines repeated, taking the pOillt of satulation from the eye. The quantities of aqua kali purl eluployed were found to be tol47 grairls7 zoo45 grainsX oolSo grains. I took lol48 grains, beillg the mean of tlle three exper snents, and applied it to tooo grains of the same vitriolic acid; evaporated the water to dryness7 and heated it to a red heat, to drive off the whole of the water ; and found 978 grains of hali zJitriolatum remailling. By this means I ascertained the quantity of kall znitriolatum produced from looo grains of tTle diluted vitriolic acid, when saturated with kali. I took looo grains of the diluted lritriolic acids and put it lnto a vessel, of tlle form in the figure annexed (Tab. X.), I added zinc to it until it would dissolve no more; I caught, during the soliition, the illflammable air, which weighed g grains, and svhose specific gravity was, to atmospheric air, as somehat less than 1 to o. The vessel contained the whole of the acid and the zint in the globular part m-arked A, the acid being introduced by a funnel. The solution svas terrnirlated in five days; when part of the tube D being broke oR, it was left to stanct for four-andtwenty hours to allow the inflammable air rernaining in the wbxch Metats aaqmire ty being calcined. rs 79ressel to:fly oSs and g;ve place to the air of the atmosphere i whicll llappened spontaneouslyfrorn the different specific gra vities of the twso vapours. The vessel containing the solution of the zinc was now laid 1lporl its side, and lo+S grains of aqua kaZi puri were introduced by a crooked funnel into tlae globe B, being the quantity sufficient to saturate looo grains of vitriolic acid as before determined. Then the tube V was hermetically sealed, and the whole weighed. The vessel was then raised) so that the globe A was undermost; thiswas done very graduallyg so that the aqua kali pari was gradually addtecS to the solution of the zitlc: urhell a little was poured in, the vessel svas brought intQ an horizolltal position again, and shaken a little; this was repeated until the whole of the aqua kali puri svas poured in. The zinc was thus precipitated in the form of a calx It was suffiered to stand for forty-eight hours : no aIteation of the gravity took place, therefore notllng had enterecl through tlle glass to give additional weight to the zirlc ill order to calcine it. The next step was to open the tube, svhicla was done uader water, and in atl atlz}osphere of the sarne heat inwhich it wras sealed, to wits S73 of FARRENI-ISIT'S therlmometer The air was ntither diminished nor increased, none of the nTater beitlg driven into the apparatus by the weight of tlle atmospllere, and none beilzg thrown out. On heatirlg tlleglobe B soas to drive out some of the airs it was foutld to be of the salne purity, nearly>as that of the atrnosphere, ;being trieel by tlle application of nitrous air procluced frotn solution of }llercury. The weigllt therefbre, which the calx haci gained, arose either from arly substance passixag through the glass, nor 8-g° Dr. FORDYCE on the Cause oJ the additional AFeightftoxn the super-incurrlbent air during the precipitation. It must, therefore, be eitherfrom the acid, tlle alkalij or the ss ater. fro deteteinine hethexs tlle acid or alkali gave the weight ta the calx of the ZillC, I washed out the k!i vitriolatum, formed by the cotubirlatiola of the vitriolic aciEl and the kalt, with pure N:rater, repeatedly applied, until it came away as pure as when appliecl, to all se-Szsi'Dle trials. The qvlantity of water used was above four pounds. I evaporated tItis water to dryness, arld ]zeated tlle mass re-d hoty to expel the whole of the water; it weighed seven grains more than the vitriolated tartar procured from applyillg the acid and alkali as above. After evaporating the water, I dissolved the mass again in <s ounces Troy sreight of pure water; a yellowish powder separated. The solution of the vitriolated tartar, cleared of this powders was again evaporated to dryness, and the water of crystallization driven ofE. It now weighed 976-IX6 grainss which is nearly two grains less than the vitriolated tartar I obtained frotu the acid and alkali applied simply together, without the intervention of the sinc. The vitriolated tartar now obtained was free from any mixture. 'he additional weight of tlae ctalx of the zinc did not arise, therefore, from either the acid or the alkali: it remains, therefore, that it arose from the water. The weight of the calx of the zinc was ascertained by dry sngFit after washing out the vitriolated tartars heating it to a red heat, and aftersrards weighing it. The weight of the ZillC dissolved in saturating the acid, was w6+ grains: i;he weight of the calx 220 grains. The additional weight was, therefore, ,S6 grains;. tbicb Metals acqmire by being calcined38tIf it arose from the water, then a quantity of water, equal ito the weight by which the calx exceeds the metal, must be lost sn the operation. To determine this, I performed a distillationxn the follovv ing manner. : I put looo grains of the same diluted vitriolic acid into the globe ^A of the same apI3aratus, then introduced the quantity of squa kalz puri found necessary to saturate it. The tube D was then bent downwards about the middle, and the apparatus brought to an horizontal position; so that the bent part of the tube svas in a perpendicular direction downwards: to tllis I affixed a small phial, atld weighed tlle wholee I then lout the globe B irs a box filled with ice, and applied heat tc) the globe A, so as to clistil over the water into the globe B, Xthe liquor llever lJeillg brought to the boiling pointo NVhen the matter in the globe A became dry the heat was itltreased to a red olle, to distil ourer likewise the water of crystallizatiorl-. The whole apparatus was now ureiglled, and found not tollave lost a grain; nor was there any water in the phial. I then cracked the tube Cs btr applying a red hot iron to itn and letting a drop of cold water fall upon it. I next weighed tile globe B with the water in it, then poured aut the water, atld let the glass dry. I weighed the glass; the defi-cient weigllt from the fsormer ,eighingg being the weight of the vaterX was oog8 grainse I repeated tlle experilnellt, with this difference; I put looo grains of tlae same vitriolic acid into the globe A, then in troduced the quarltity of ZillC sufficient to saturate it: r to-ok the weight of the inflammable air as before) and found it llearly the same in weight arld quality. The same quantity of aqua kali puri was then introduced through a filrlnel as in the <AlDCCSC I 1. 8 9 S8X Dr. FORDYCE on the Cause of the additional Wegght, &ce former experiments then the tube was bent downwards, aild a phialapplied to it as before. Tlle wilole apparatus was -weighed after the distillation? and found not to have lost any sensible quantity of weight, nor was thereS any water in the phial.l'he phial t3eing detached, and the tube broken as befiore, the globe weighed agaita wherl drya tlle d:eficiency was less tllanb in the former exp¢ritnent by 6g graills, whichis two grains less than the additional weight of the calx above the metal and of the inflammable air taken together; and therefore the matter occasioning the additional weight of the calx above that of the-metal, and the inflammable air} are both pro duced from the waterO ,_ s t-| -17 li 41 ll 1 t| -iljDAcZos. Xrans. MDCCXCII. 7taZ. X. ,. 382.<agyE0J¢F 