XI. A Letter from James Parsons, M. D. F. R. S. to the President; serving to introduce a Remark from John Milner, Esq; concerning the burying of the Cows, dead of the present reigning Distemper, in Lime or not. S I R, WHEN the Means for preventing the Infection among the Cattle were under Consideration, Burying them was thought the most effectual Method to hinder its Progress; and, by way of Improvement to this Project, the Addition of Lime was imagined necessary, for the more speedy Destruction of the distemper'd Carcases. But some Doubts arising, whether the Lime might not exalt the putrid Particles, and help to spread the Infection, it was the Opinion of several of the Learned, that it was most safe, on that account, to bury them without it. Read June 12. 1746. This [225] This Difference will probably be decided by the inclosed Account of Cattle buried both with and without Line, written by John Milner, Esquire, one of the Justices appointed to inspect into the Affair, and one who has the Good of Mankind at Heart as much as any Person whatsoever. This Gentleman related the Case to several others, who were met at a Coffee-house where I was present; and, as I thought it concerned the Public very much, I waited on him next Morning to request he would permit me to lay it before the Royal Society; which he readily complied with, and gave me the inclosed Paper for that Purpose. I hope it will serve to prevent the Practice of burying them with Lime for the future, as this accidental Fact makes it more than probable, that malignant Particles may be sent up, * and spread through the Air. I am, S I R, Yours, and the Society's, N. B. The Cattle were buried most obedient Servant, 10 Feet deep with Lime. 8 Feet deep without Lime. James Parsons. * Quick Lime renders the animal Salts more volatile and pungent; as in the Process of Spirit of Sal ammoniac. with Quuick-Lime. See Wilson's Chemistry, Lond. 1709. 8~. p. 332. C. M. F f 2 May [226] MR. Stallwood, a Farmer at Hackney, informed the Justices, to whom the Care of the distemper'd Cattle was committed, that he had buried thirteen Cows very deep, with the Quantity of Lime appointed by the Justices; and, observing his Dogs to scratch and tear up the Ground with their Feet, to get at the Cows Flesh (the Lime fermenting, and causing a Foam, as he called it, or strong Scent of Meat to arise, which made the Dogs so eager to come at it) he beat them off several times: But the Dogs always returning as soon as he was gone, he, for some time, hired Boys to keep them off. But that he had buried several other Cows in another Place, with their Hides cut and flash'd, without any Lime (being ordered by the Justices so to do), and the Dogs never attempted to scratch or tear up the Ground there, though it lay open to them equally with the other Ground, and they often run over it. May 31, 1746. John Milner. N. B. Two Bushels of Lime to each Cow was the Allowance. XII. 