A Sequel of the Case of the Right Honourable Horace Walpole, Esq; relating to the Stone, since his first Account in April 1750 *. A F T E R having found myself for two years together perfectly well, and free from all symptoms of my former disorder, having taken for some time no more than one half of the quantity of soap ~and lime-water that I had before used; in November 1750, I came out of the country in my coach in the usual travelling pace, without the least inconvenience. But having ventur'd sometimes to go in a coach, after I came to town, upon the stones, I began at times to feel the symptoms of the same disorder, which upon any motion, besides that of going in a chair, even in walking to any degree, increased upon me; and driving only in my chariot thro' the two parks to Kensington, without going upon the stones, I found myself greatly affected, by making frequently and involuntarily water, and sometimes bloody, accompanied with sudden * See above, p. 43. Read May 28, 1752. [473] den stops, and severe pains. However, taking the precaution of going by water as far as the Old Swan, and being carried from thence in a chair as far as Whitechapel, I ventur'd in a chariot, fitted up with the best French springs, to go into the country with Mrs. Walpole about midsummer last: but before I had got half way to Epping, tho' the horses went but a gentle pace, I felt as great uneasiness, attended with the same severe symptoms, as I had ever done; which frequently returned, and continued upon me during the whole journey for four days together, with little or no abatement, except while I was in bed; whereas formerly, after I had lain some time, I was perfectly easy the whole night. In lighting from my coach, upon my arrival at my house in the country, I had indeed a cruel fit; but after I had rested one night, and kept myself as quiet as possible for several days, I found myself perfectly well again; and as I never went in a coach, and did not walk much, during my whole stay in the country last year for about five months together, I never felt the least symptom of uneasiness. A few days before I left the country in November last, I took a turn or two round my park in my chariot, free from pain; which encouraged me to undertake a journey to town again in my chariot, by short stages, and gentle driving; and it was perform'd in five days to Whitechapel, without my being sensible of the last inconvenience any part of the way; neither have I felt any since my arrival in town; and I continue well, taking daily, as I have constantly done from the time I went last into the country, the full quantity of soap and lime-water, as formerly I took. O o o LXXVIII. 