(363) IX. An Account of an Humane Skeleton of an extraordinary Size, found in a Repository at Repton in Derby-shire, together with some Examples of long Life, communicated by Simon Degg, M. D. & F. R. S. Extract from my Journal, Friday July the 15th, 1726. T H E Day favouring us, we set forward from Derby for Repton, alias Repingdon, and in One Hour and Two Thirds we arrived at Repton, a Town in the Trent famous for the Burial of the Mercian Kings, whose chief Seat was at Tamworth in Stafford-shire. This Town is likewise remarkable for its Free-school, and its antient Abbey. Having view'd the Ruins in this Town, and enquiring for Antiquities, the Inhabitants brought us Thomas Walker, a Labourer, aged Eighty Eight Years, who gave the following Account. About Forty Years since cutting Hillocks, near the Surface he met with an old Stone Wall, when clearing farther he found it to be a square Enclosure of Fifteen Foot: It had been covered, but the Top was decayed and fallen in, being only supported by wooden Joyces. In this he found a Stone Coffin, and with Difficulty removing the Cover, saw a Skeleton of a Humane Body Nine Foot long, and round it lay One Hundred Humane Skeletons, with their Feet pointing to the Stone Coffin. They seem'd to be of the ordinary Size. The Head of the great Skeleton he gave to Mr. Bowers, Master of the Free-school. I enquired of his Son, One of (364) of the present Masters, concerning it, but it is lost; yet he says, that he remembers the Skull in his Father's Closet, and that he had often heard his Father mention this Gigantick Corps, and thinks this Skull was in Proportion to a Body of that Stature. The Bottom of this Dormitory was pav'd with broad flat Stones, and in the Wall was a Door-case, with Steps to go down to it, whose Entrance was Forty Yards off, nearer the Church and River. The Steps are Stone, and much worn: 'Tis in a Close, on the North Side of the Church, and over this Repository grows a Sycamore, planted by the old Man when he filled in the Earth. The present Owner will not suffer it to be open'd, the Lady of the Mannor having forbidden it. This was attested to us by several old People, who had likewise seen and measured the Skeleton. E X A M P L E S of Long Life. AT Uttoxeter, in the Moorlands of Stafford-shire, were buried the following Number of People at the following Ages, in the Year 1702. In 14 Days were buried Three Women, the First 103, the Second 126, and One of 87; and the same Year Two Sisters and a Brother in and of that Parish, the Brother 92, the youngest Sister 95, the eldest Sister 98. And in the same Parish this present Year 1726, were buried in 22 Days, the following aged People. August the 7th One Woman aged 94, and One Man aged 81. August the 4th One Man, aged 68 August the 19th One Man, aged 87 August (365) August the 22d One Man, aged 82 August the 23d One Man, aged 83 Men 4 Women 2 In 1726. at Gravely in Hertford-shire, 31 Miles from London, almost every Sixth Soul is upwards of Sixty. Inhabitants 187. aged above Sixty, 29. X. 