XXXIII. Observations on the Roman Colonies and Stations in Cheshire and Lancashire, by Thomas Percival Esq; communicated by Hugh Lord Willoughby of Parham, F. R. S. IN the second iter of Antonine's Itinerary, we find, after several other stations mentioned Eboracum Calcariam M. P. IX. Camulodunum M. P. XX. Tho' with various Mamucium M. P. XVIII. readings of the Condate M. P. XVIII. names. Devam M. P. XX. Read June 13. 1751. It is agreed, that Deva is Chester, and that Mamucium or Manucium or Mancunium, is Manchester, by the common consent of all antiquarians. But where Condate Phil Brementona cum over Burron AEstuary of Langovicum Moricambe Lancaster Setantionum Gallunia Colunia Portico Riodunum ~ Coln ~ Preston ~ AEstuarium ~ Camp Coccium Bury Seteia AEstuarium ~ Rochdale Campus ~ ~ Mancunium Shetsord Thelnall Dunham ~ Chapel in ~ Street Condate Deva ~ Congleton Philos. Trans. Vol. XLVII. TAB. VIII.p. 217. ~Roman Camps ~Saxon Camps & Castles ~~ Camps ~~aKeep added by the Danes. ~Some present Towns to direct the ~ of the Map Olicana ~ ~ ~ ~ Calcaria ~ Tudcaster A ~ ~ Eatand ~~ ~ ~ ~Almonbury Castleshan ~Bueton Castle n about or at A. I suppose Cambodumem to be placed ~Campus ~ or ~ Tor ~Burgh Perhaps Zerdotalia *~ ~ [217] date is situated, is yet a matter of debate. Some (as Mr. Camden and others) declare for Congleton; some also for Northwich; but I think equally wrong. But to understand me rightly, be pleased to lay before you Gibson's Camden, vol. i. and in the map for Cheshire you will observe Stretford in Lancashire. Here, it is certain, the Roman road passed the Mersey, as well by the name, as the visible remains in the meadows near the present bridge. About a quarter of a mile from Altringham you see the road very plain, as also near Dunham and in Dunham-park. More southerly you see Chapel in the Street; an evident mark of the Roman way having gone near it. By this course it is evident Congleton cannot be the place; the course of the road leaving it too much to the east by several miles; and laying a ruler over the map, you will perceive the Roman road proceeded in a direct line from Stretford to Dunham-park, leaving Altringham to the east, and so directly forward till past Rosthern Mere, where it must have made an angle * to go to Chapel in the Street: continuing which line forward to the south, you will find, that it points to Kinderton, the situation of which is between a river and a brook, and remains of the road may be seen to the west of Rudheath, now called Kindstreet, and a square Roman camp on the Lingula to the west of Kinderton. Thus the name of Congleton, which induced Mr. Camden to place Condate there, agrees less with the name than Kinderton. The common characteristic of Agricola's station agrees with E e Kinderton; * See the map annexed. [218] Kinderton; it being on a Lingula, which Congleton is not. A Roman camp, which I am well assured by a friend to be there, marks the very place, as the pointing of the Roman road confirms the opinion. And in the tenth Iter, Condate being placed in the road to Mediolanum shews it to be easterly of Chester. I say, all these reasons confirm me in a belief, that Condate is Kinderton. Mr. Horstey observes, that Condate signifies the confluence of two rivers; a situation, which Kinderton has. I now turn back to Manchester. Mancunium is agreed to be Manchester. The Roman fort is at Knotmills, and stands on a high piece of ground overlooking the confluence of Irwell and Medlock, but nearer the Medlock, that river running within about 60 yards of the fort. The fort is square, and has been surrounded with a wall. The whole fort is 6 or 7 feet higher than the rest of the hill; and the whole strongly cemented with morter. The Medlock runs upon, or rather forces its way thro', a rock under it. So that, from the situation, as well as strength, it well deserved the name of Mancunium; in British Maen Cune, i. e. the stone city. The Roman road from Mancunium to Eboracum or York goes near the top of the Deansgate in Manchester, and crossing the inclosures on the south-east end of the town appears in an inclosure near Ancoats; then runs thro' Bradford, and crosses the very middle of Newton-heath, Newton chapel standing on the very ridge of it. Standing at the west end of the chapel, you see the trace of it into Bradford-lane; standing at the east end, you see the trace of it go betwixt a house [219] a house and a barn on the east end of the common. It then runs thro' the inclosures to Mr. Wagstaffe's house, where it enters a lane, and is visible enough. In about 400 yards more, being interrupted with a moss, it rises with a prodigious grandeur, and is the finest remain of a Roman road in England, that I ever saw. This is at the back of Mr. Jenkinson's house in Failsworth, his land lying on both sides, and is now called Street. It is visible for half a mile more along a back lane leading to Hollinwood, but on the lane turning to the common it strikes cross a meadow of Mr. Whitehead's, and is visible for some small part of it. Tradition directs its course to Glodwicklows; and some places, where it has been found in ploughing, shew its course to be so. And near Glodwick it is visible in a meadow for some scores of yards pointing over the lows. Tracing it forwards it is very visible at the descent of the hill quite over Mr. James Wyld's land. There is a small cob on this hill by some supposed to have been a fort: if it was, it must have been a very small one; tho' I rather take it for a tumulus than an exploratory tower. It crosses hence, and is very visible in the grounds of John Mayol, of Wellihole. It then goes thro' the Rev. Mr. Townson's land, leaving Heigh-chapel a little to the south, and so goes up the hill to * Osterlands on the upper side of the village making towards the Highmore; and going along the inclosures on the south edge of it comes close to Knothill in E e 2 Saddleworth, * Here it enters Yorkshire. [220] Saddleworth, and along the side of Knot-lane, and so crosses over the present road from Manchester to Huthersfield at Delf, and goes over the fields to Castleshaw. At Castleshaw I was well pleased to find a double Roman camp, and on looking into Ravennas's geography to find between Mantio and Camboduno the name of Alunna, which, in my opinion, is the name of this camp. It was absolutely necessary for the Romans to have a camp hereabout, considering it was the main pass over the hills and the distance about a Roman march: that from Castleshaw to Manchester is reckon'd ten miles, and the camp is about half a mile beyond; but as the present road is two miles about, it will be about 9 computed miles, and lying at the very foot of the greater ridge of hills, was a proper restingplace on their marches. From the camp looking toward Manchester, on the top of Knotthill, you see on the very top a very conspicuous Roman tumulus; but of this more anon. From Alunna or Castleshaw the Roman way goes directly for the hill called Clowze-moss, where it was cut thro' the moss, and is called Old Gate, being visible by the greenness of its tract; so over the top of Clows or Clowze-moss. It is visible in a green tract over the Reaps (a hill so called) leaving Marchhill or Marshill a little to the north, and Marsden about a mile and a half to the south, pointing directly on Pole-moor, going in its way over the middle of of Holm-moor, and so directly up Cupwith-moor to Polemoorstone, or Guide-post, above Slaighwait or Claighwait, and along the north end of Gowkerhill or [221] or Wholestonesmoor, or Hoolstonesmoor, leaving the rocking-stone about 500 yards to the south. Standing at Polemoorstone, the Roman way is west and by south; Gowkerhill-end east and by north; and Almondbury east-south east; horizontal distance three miles and a half, computed 5 miles. So that it is plain, that Almondbury was not the Roman station, and Greatlandmoor is at least a mile wide to the north of the tract of the road. The road then makes for Lindleymoor, where it is visible for about a mile on the side, and points full towards Tadcaster, Almondbury, and Greatland, both wide, one 2 miles to the north, the other 4 miles to the south. The great question, where Cambodunum is situated, whether, according to Mr. Camden, at Almondbury, or, according to Mr. Horsley, at Greatlandmoor, may be so far determin'd, that is, at neither. For certainly the road would go strait to the station, or near so. Now it is apparent, that from Manchester to Almondbury the road would have been strait to Castleshaw, but would there have parted from the present track of the Roman road, and gone more south-east by Marsden to Almondbury; and, as I fansied a road might turn thither, I have made a diligent search for 4 or 5 summers last past; and living but six miles from Castleshaw, have made all possible inquiry from the shepherds, turf-getters, &c. and of the people at Marsden, whether in ploughing they have met with any remains, but could never yet hear one word of any via militaris, or road going that [222] that way. On the contrary, they all speak of the present highway being found out some time since in their grandfathers or great-grandfathers memories; and that the old highway was along the track of the Roman road. But to turn to the map of Lancashire in Gibson's Camden's Britannia, vol. 2. lay a ruler from the junction of the Medlock and Irwell over Newton, and drawing a line quite beyond Saddleworth, about half an inch on the line, on the east of the river Taume, will be this situation of Alunna or Castleshaw. Note, Saddleworth is not a village, but a large valley, and therefore ill laid down in the map. The church would stand a mile to the south of the line, if that had been rightly placed; tho' Castleshaw is in Saddleworth. Note, a junction of two brooks should be described near Castleshaw which, when joined in some small distance, fall into the Tame. Turn now to the map of Yorkshire West-Riding, and laying one edge of your ruler to the junction of 2 small rivers or brooks, you see to the north of Saddleworth. Let the same edge be placed at Rastrick, and a line drawn from one end or the junction of the river to Rastrick will represent the road, as far as I have traced, to within a mile or less of Rastrick. I was in great hopes to have found the station near Gowkerhill, or upon Lindley-common, but was disappointed, and could hear of no camp thereabouts, except one at Kirklees, where there is a large Roman camp, tho' it seems to lie a little too much to the south; unless the road gave a small turn to pass the Calder at some more convenient ford: or, if the Roman road passed the Calder at Brighouse, as I suspect, [223] suspect, that is not a mile from the camp at Kirklees; and so if Kirklees was not the station, it might be the campus aestivus of the station, and the station be on some of the hills, which hereabouts lie close to the Calder. But of this I hope more particularly to search at some convenient opportunity. Only thus far I dare be bold to say, that between Manchester and Lindley-moore are no more Roman camps than Castleshaw: for I have traced almost every foot of it, that is visible, and am certain no camp in that distance could have escaped my view. It may possibly be asked, why I do not chuse to fix Cambodunum at Castleshaw? I answer, I imagine it too near Manchester; and I should rather think it stood on the military way on the Yorkshire side of the hills, and was intended as a guard to the way on that side, as Castleshaw certainly was on this. From Castleshaw to Rastrick is 9 computed miles, mostly over the tract of the road, which is to this day used in the summer; and supposing the station to be half a mile on this or that side of the Calder, it will, on Mr. Horsley's calculation of the measures, be about 14 or 15 Roman miles. However this is certain, that the XVIII Roman miles in the Itinerary would, if Mr. Horsley's measures are right, fall nearly on the road near Marchhill or Marshill, which I have searched over and over again, and three computed miles on each side, without finding the least marks of any camp but Castleshaw. March-hill is a fine dry round green hill, too big for a raised tumulus; tho' from its appearance one would be apt to think, that it had been a little rounded by art; at least [224] least I doubt it was an encampment of the men, whilst at work on the road, and perhaps a baitingplace on their marches; tho' there are no vestigies of any trench remaining, it being the only place free from moss for some miles, and a fine spring near it. Imagining with Mr. Horsley, that XXIII might be the right number, I searched Gowkerhill-end, and Lindleymoor-side, to no purpose. I therefore imagine, that the distance should be XXVIII, which will <inferred>fall</inferred> nearly on Rastrick; unless you will suppose, that the Roman XVIII miles are as long as our computed <inferred>miles</inferred>, which would still fall (reckoning on the course of the Roman highway) near Rastrick on the river Calder. I could wish such of the gentlemen, who are antiquarians, and live near Rastrick, would inquire of the neighbours thereabouts for the road, or for a camp. For I find it not a little difficult to persuade the country people to give any information, unless they know the inquirer. Perhaps the names of Castlesteads, Castleshaw, Campfield, or some such other name, may yet remain to guide an antiquarian to the place, as the name of Castleshaw was the guide to me to find out the station, which I suppose to be Alunna. But to speak more intelligibly to the point: from Eboracum to Calcaria being IX, from Calcaria to Cambodunum being XX miles, and to Mancunium XVIII, in the Itinerary; it must be consider'd, that from York to Tadcaster is 9 computed miles, answering IX in the Itinerary. From Tadcaster to Rastrick is 20 computed miles; and from Rastrick to the fort at Manchester is along the track of the Roman road 18 computed miles. So that if the Romans 4 [225] Romans gave as long measure in the north, as we now do (and they must, if the numbers of the Itinerary are right) then Cambodunum must be situated near Rastrick on the banks of the Calder. As therefore the numbers in the Itinerary agree not with the true distance of Tadcaster and Manchester, unless the Romans reckon'd their miles, as above observed, which is contrary to the received opinion; and as it would make a very great difference in the sum total of the second iter to add with Mr. Horsley one third to our computed miles, we must be reduced to the dilemma of allowing the numbers either to be wrong in the total, or that the miles of the Itinerary are not equally exact. Here I beg leave to observe, that Mr. Horsley, in accounting for the difference, says, the road being very level betwixt York and Tadcaster, and betwixt Manchester and Chester, if the horizontal miles are the miles meant, the difference of the miles betwixt Tadcaster and Manchester may be accounted for, by the ground being mountainous. To obviate this, ob<inferred>serve</inferred>, that from Manchester to Castleshaw the road is strait, and but two hills in the way, about as high as Highgate-hill. From Castleshaw it goes up a constant tho' moderate ascent for 2 miles; then a gentle descent for a miles; then a gentle descent for a mile to Marshill; then over a small moor and a small valley, and then rises for 2 miles a gentle ascent, and then goes down to Rastrick a gentle descent for 4 miles more. So that had the Romans searched all our moors over, they could not have found a way over, less intercepted with mountains and valleys, rocks and rivers, than this F f I beg [226] I beg leave to observe, that as I find a Roman camp at Castleshaw at the foot of the hills, so in all probability there were other camps betwixt the stations. And I question little, but that they might have one between Calcaria and Cambodunum, possibly at or near Leeds; another between Mancunium and Condate, possibly near Dunham-park; and one between Condate and Deva, perhaps near Chamber in the forest; tho' as these were not settled stations or constant garisons, they may not occur, nor indeed was there any necessity for their occurring, in the Itinerary, as in summer the army might march through, tho' perhaps not in the winter. Yet this I am fully of opinion of, that Castleshaw must have been a settled garison, at least in the time of war; the situation for command of the road, the vicinity of the mountains, all requiring one to render the ways secure. And it is so situated, that a man or centry from Clowzemoss commands a prospect to Manchester, and sees most of the course of the Roman way, and also into Yorkshire, as far as Lindleymoor: as also a man or centry on Knothill might easily see to Manchester, and quite up the hill to the top of Clowzemoss. So that if a centry or small guard was placed at Lindleymoor, another on Clowzemoss, another on Knothill, in time of war, no enemy could march along the course of the way on either side the hills, but notice might be communicated by fires, smoaks, or otherwise, time enough to alarm the garisons. Give me leave now to turn to the 10th iter, and to that part of it, which says, Galacum [227] Galacum Brementonacis M. P. XXVII al. XXXII Thus Mr. Coccio... XX.. XXV Horsley corMancunio.. XVII. XXVII rects them. Condate.. XVIII... Mr. Horsley says, that the Roman way is not known betwixt Overborrow and Manchester. Brementonacis is agreed to be Overborrow, and the military way is very visible in several places, as I have myself seen; but take the words of Mr. Rothmell. `` The Roman way begins at the fortress of Rib`` chester, and runs north over Longridge-fell, and `` discovers itself by being green, when the rest of `` Longridge is healthy and morassy on both sides the `` way; upon which account it is called Green-lane. `` As soon as it reaches the north summit of Long`` ridge, it makes a right angle, and runs on the `` north side of the hill towards the east. And after `` some length it turns by degrees to the north, and `` then points directly towards Overborrow. It en`` ters Yorkshire a little below Dowford-bridge, and `` proceeds in a direct line by Newton and Slaitburn `` to Cross of Greet. It is very apparent on the `` north side of Tatham-chapel. It runs thro' Bent`` ham to Overborrow; but the improved country `` short of Overborrow has eradicated it. It was `` open'd, on the ground being improv'd, near Dow`` ford-bridge, and was paved 7 yards broad.'' Now, as this proves, that there is a Roman highway betwixt Ribchester and Overborrow, so the Roman highway betwixt Manchester and Ribchester is well known. From the fort at Manchester it goes along the Deansgate by the old church down the Huntsbank, F f 2 and [228] and so by Strangeways. It is visible in the footroad to Kersal-moor, and called the Devil's causeway. It goes near Prestwick church, leaving a campus aestivus, now called How-castle-hill, about 20 rood to the right. It goes thro' Radclyffe, and so over Cocky-moor; and from thence to Offeyside to a place now called Watlingstreet; and so to <inferred>Bellthorn-moor</inferred> above Darwen, and on the east of Blackburn strait to Ribchester. From Manchester to Ribchester is called 20 miles thro' Blackburn; but the road now gone is certainly longer by 2 miles than the course of the Roman road; which to be sure is about 18 computed miles. The distance between Ribchester and Overborrow, is, I suppose, (considering the angle made on Longridge-fell, and another to get over the valley near Cross of Greet) about 20 computed miles. At Ribchester there are visible remains of a Roman highway crossing Watlingstreet (i. e. the road of iter) the eastern branch of which comes from Ickley to Coln, and so by Whalley to Ribchester. Ickley is agreed to be Olicana. Coln, by the name, the via militaris, and Roman antiquities, appears to be Colunia; as Whalley for the same reasons must be Gallunia. The western branch of the way goes over Preston-moor, leaving the town above half a mile on the left, and proceeds direct for the sea. I have not had an opportunity to trace it thither; but I doubt not but it leads to the antient portus Setantiorum. A military way goes also from Ribchester to Lancaster, the Longovicarium of the Romans; another from Overborrow to Lancaster. Near Overborrow is a castrum exploratorium on the top of Ingleboroughhill. No. 4. No. 5. Castle Steads in Walmisley Alunna non Castle Shaw near Bury in Sadleworth p. 229. p. 229. The ~ 330 Feet ma of 150 Feet a rais'd way very steep very steep C B A A A 180 Feet 240 Feet 240 Feet 363 Feet a steep Descent A. Gates now visible The Course of the ~ B. Inner Camp C. Outer Camp Philos. Trans. Vol.XLVII. TAB. IX Coccium non Bury Castle Crost p. 229. The ~ Line denotes a Wall made by the Owner 270 Feet of the Land marl pit A Stone Ruin A a Pulled up by ~ Nuttal Steep Descent who is said to have to the River 600 Feet found a Cellar Q. if not a Bath ~ The Old Bed of the Irwel Bolton Street in Bury Here marl has been got This Part is all Built upon. Therefore it is uncertain how far the Camp extended this way [229] hill. A military way goes from Overborrow easterly towards Aserig. The road of the iter coming from the north is yet visible. I am of Mr. Camden's opinion, that about Cockey-moor should be placed Coccium. I search'd along the course of the Roman way for a camp without success. However at Bury, about a mile out of the course of the way, is a Roman camp, which I take to be Coccium; tho' I cannot account for its being in the Itinerary, unless Ribodunum was then burnt down, and that Coccium being mentioned as the next camp, was stuck in the place, without a due regard to altering the figures. Bury is a town lying on the Irwell; and on the west side, where the river makes an elbow, is the Roman camp *. There is a Roman camp on the same river above it, which I call the campus aestivus; the fortification not near so large as Bury ~. The people have a tradition, that the two camps were relative to one another, and that a battle was fought near Bury, and that the army, or one of them, came over Ashworth-moor, where was a castle. On searching Ashworth-moor, I found a circle cut in the earth ~; which seems more likely to be a druid's tumulus (as Dr. Stukeley describes them) or if not that, I know not what. At Heap, a mile from Bury, is a tumulus; and another at Heywood, about a mile distant from the first. I * See the plan, No 4. ~ See ditto, No 5. ~ See ditto. [230] I mention'd Knothill to be a Roman tumulus. The people about Castleshaw have yet a tradition, that some great man belonging to the castle was buried there, and have a confused notion of a march of an army of Danes. Now as Canutus marched into Yorkshire out of Lancashire, it is highly probable, that he came over this road: and as Knott-hill gave him a full view of the Yorkshire moors, it was a proper place and opportunity to harangue his men; and that speech might alter the old name of the tumulus to Knothill, if it was not made for his use, which, I think, it was not. Several names of places on this road seem to carry his memory in their names. Knothill here; Knotty-lane just below; Knotlanes between here and Manchester, very near the Roman highway; Knotsmills near Manchester; and Knutsford in Cheshire, which way he probably came, in his march from Staffordshire. N. B. I imagine Ravennas's Geography to be a kind of an iter; and that before the name of Manchester the name of Zerdotalia means Burgh near Castleton in the Peak. For a Roman way comes over the moors from Burgh toward Manchester, another from Burgh to Buxton. There is a Roman camp at Burgh, a campus aestivus about a mile distance on the top of Mam-tor, and just below this camp is a lead-mine called Woden or Oden Great Mine, reputed the oldest in Derbyshire, and to have been wrought for many ages. What analogy there is between this name, and the name of the Saxon deity Woden, I refer to be consider'd by the curious, and the reason of its being now affixed to the mine. XXXIV 