(87) I. Part of a Letter from the Reverend Mr. Wasse, Rector of Aynho in Northamptonshire, to Dr. Mead, concerning the difference in the Height of a Human Body, between Morning and Night. I Have observ'd several Soldiers discharged for being a little under the Standard, and having experienced the difference of a Man's Height in the Morning and at Night, I mentioned it to an Officer, and thereby kept some Persons from being turn'd out of the Service. Since that Time I have measured Sir H. A...., Mr. C....., and a great many sedentary People, and Day-Labourers, of all Ages and Shapes, and find that Difference to be near an Inch. I try'd my self, wh ensitting, and found it in like manner; particularly, August 21. 1723. Weather warm, no Wind, at Eleven in the Morning I sat down, and fixed an Iron Pin so as to touch it, and that but barely. After that, I fatigued my self for half an Hour with a GardenRoller, and the Consequence was, that at 12 Ho. 30 Min. I could not reach theNail sitting,by about 5Tenths of an Inch, or the Breadth of one of the Rods of Hunt's Sliding-Rule. At 2 the same Day I wanted near six Tenths of an Inch. On the 21st, at 6 Ho. 30 Min. in the Morning, I touched the Nail fully; and after the above-mentioned Exercise for only a Quarter of an Hour, at 7 Ho. 14 Min. I fell short almost as much as before. On the 27th, having sat up late with some Friends, I was faint, and felt my self heavy upon the Ground, and without any Spring, and at 9 that Morning I did not reach the Nail, though I had us'd no V O L. XXXIII. P Exercise. (88) Exercise. I rid out, but could not reach it that Day. On the 28th I rid about four Miles; and whereas at 6 that Morning I reached the Nail, I had lost 6 tenths of an Inch by 8. September 19th I came from Oxford a little tired, and next Morning at 8 I wanted half an Inch. If I Study closely, though I never stir from my Writing-Desk, yet in 5 or 6 Hours I lose near an Inch. All the Difference I find between Labourers and sedentary People is, that the former are longer in losing their Morning Height, and sink rather less in the whole than the latter. I cannot perceive, that when the Height is lost, it can be regained by any Rest that Day, or by the Use of the cold Bath. I have not informed my self so well about Horses; my Mare comes Seven this Grass, is strong, short back'd, and well legg'd. I measured her before and after riding 20 Miles, April 30th, and could not perceive the least Difference in her Height. The Alteration in the human Stature, I imagine, proceeds from the yielding of the Cartilages between the Vertebrae, to the Weight of the Body in an erect Posture. A Y N H O, May 16, 1724. This curious Observation has been confirmed by several Members of the Royal Society, and others, who have purposely tried the Experiment. II. Some 