(682) VIII. An Account of B O O K S. I. Horti Indici Malabarici. Pars Quarta, Quinta & Sexta. With some Remarks upon them by T. R. M. D. S. R. S. T H E three first Volumes of this Work having been taken notice of in the Philosophical Transactions, N. 155. from pag. 100. to pag. 109. I shall continue the Account of the rest, in which the Heer Van Rheede (lately the Worthy Governour of Malabar, now chief Intendant of all the Dutch Colonies in India) gives a most illustrious Specimen of his Industry and Generosity, as also a noble Example to other Residents in Foreign Countries, having at leisure Hours Collected, Design'd, Painted, Describ'd, and learnt the Natural Products, together with their Uses in Trade, Diet and Medicine; and all in order to communicate his Discoveries to the World, amidst his many great Employments in the Commonwealth both at Home and Abroad. This Fourth Tome contains Sixty One Trees, Shrubs and Arborescent Herbs, together with their Sculps and Descriptions from the Life; particularly of their Flowers, Fruits, Seeds, and their Vessels, (the Symbolical and Essential Marks of Plants) neglected, or else unobserved by the Ancients, whose Genius and Spirit penetrated very deep in most things, except Natural History, in (683) in which they are very obscure, confus'd, and unintelligible, even to the nicest Criticks, and all for want of describing things with their proper Characteristic Notes, which clearly distinguish them one from another. In the last Age this was first started by the laborious and learned Gesner, afterwards prosecuted by those two Italian Wits, Andreas Caesalpinus, and Fabius Columna, but lately most improv'd by our own deservedly famous Country-man Mr. John Ray in his excellent Histories of Plants and Animals. The Exactness and Accuracy of the Moderns far above the Ancients in this part of Knowledge is so plain to any Man of common Observation or Reading, that I cannot but wonder some should speak so contemptuously of the last Ages, as tho they only copied or commented those that went before; No useful Inventions? No Improvements amongst us? This may pass amongst some Smatterers in Philosophy, or Ancient Bigots, but never with Men of Science, or free Thought; nor indeed with any Body tolerably vers'd in the History of Nature or Arts: So little need is there of Transcribing (as some fancy) the Old Books, that if we join both all the Ancient and New together, they will scarce make above an Essay towards the Discovery and Knowledge of almost Infinite and Inexhaustible Nature. Veniet tempus, quo ista, quae nunc latent, in lucem dies extrahet, & longioris aevi diligentia, was the Opinion of the Ancients themselves. But to the present Work before us, of which some particulars are to be touch'd upon. Amongst the many rare Vegetables, we have a compleat History of that Pruniferous Tree, called Mango by the English, Mao or Mau by the Indians, Ambo by the Brachmans, which grows above 40 foot in height, and 18 in thickness, sweating out an odoriferous gummy Substance; its Leaves and Root are of an AromaR 2 tick (684) tick Quality; the Flowers grow in Clusters like those of the Vine, are pentapetalose, white, and marked within with a yellow Spot, and a Honey Spicy Style, to which succeeds the Fruit of the Figure of a Kidney, as large as a Goose Egg, first green and checquered with white Punctums, then yellowish, and afterwards of a Golden Colour, with a thin downy Skin; the Stone is oblong flattish, and lanuginose, the Kernel whereof resembles that of an Almond; of these there are as many varieties in India, as Peaches and Plums in Europe: The Wood is in use amongst the Gentiles in burning their Dead Bodies, to which 'tis consecrated, and for making their Coffins or Urns. The Brachmans adorn their Habitations with the Boughs on Festival days, they rub their Teeth with the Leaves, and use them as they do the Betel and Faufel, (the first of the Pepper, the latter of the Palm kind) the Gum is given in all sorts of Fluxes. The Fruit is either eaten out of Wine, or Pickle, or in Conserve, sometimes stuft with fresh Ginger, Garlick, Mustard, &c. and sprinkled with Salt, Oyl and Vinegar, and so eaten with Rice and other Meats, as we do Gurchens and Olives. Out of the dry'd Kernels they make a Meal, of which they prepare several sorts of Meat. To this we might add the Histories of many other exotick and rare Trees describ'd,and elegantly Figur'd in this Fourth Part,as the Adamaran,a sort of Almond-Tree, out of which the Indians make Cakes, milky Emulsions, and an Oyl by Expression; it bears Fruit three times in one Year. Panem-Palka a Species of Nutmeg, which the Turkish and Jewish Merchants sometimes substitute instead of the true with the Mace on it, and sell the Oyl for genuine. The Samstravadi, with the Flowers and Fruit whereof the Ethnick and Superstitious Pilgrims deck their Bodies after having Consecrated them; the Portugueses call it Rosairos, numbring their Prayers with them instead of Beads; 'tis a sort of Plum call'd Jambos, of (685) of which there are several Species in this Volume. Paenoe, out of which when young, the Indians make their Masts, and entire Vessels out of the grown Trunks, capable of holding 60 Men; they flourith above 300 years, and afford a sort of Gum Anime or Copal, us'd by the Natives as Frankincense in their Sacrifices. The Timber is not easily subject to the Worm. Poerinsii, a sort of Soap-Tree, with the Fruit whereof they wash, and make their Combs and Musical Instruments out of the Wood. Ponga, like unto the Tataiba of Piso, or the Fustick-Wood Tree. Ponna, distilling a Substance like the Gutta Gamba or Gummi Gotte, with which it agrees in many qualities. Tsierou-Ponna, call'd Kina, in the Island of Ceylon. Perin-Toddali, a sort of Zyzyphus or Jujube distilling our common Lacca. Ravapou, a second kind of Arbor Tristis, a-kin to the Jasmins; this is very fragrant, and expands upon the rising of the Sun. Bengieiri, whose Wood resembles the Lignum Moluccense or Panave. Aria Bepou, which is the true Nimbo of Acosta, of which there are two Species. To these we might add some Indian Ricini, Cisti, several kinds of Limes, Althaea's, Plums, Oriental Elder, Barberry, &c. with their Uses, all contain'd in this Fourth Tome. Horti Indici Malabarici. Pars Quinta. THis Fifth Volume comprehends 60 Trees and Shrubs, most of them Bacciferous, excellently engraven in large Copper Plates. The Katou-karua is a Second Species of Cinnamon observ'd wild in several Provinces of Malabar, the other sort being described in the first part of this Work under the Name of Karua, both inferiour to the Cinamon-Tree growing in the Woods (686) Woods of Ceylon, tho' all alike in Leaf, Flower and Fruit. Beesha, whose Leaves are arundinaceous, a-kin to the Ily or Bambou Cane described in the first Tome, out of the Beesha the Natives make their Baskets, Arrows, and Writing Pens. Nola-Ili, a third Species of Bambou, sent as Merchandize into Persia, Arabia, and the Turkish Empire, where they make long Pipes of it for the smoaking their Tobacco. Cammetti, a sort of Tree Tithymal or Spurge above Forty Foot high, with the Decoction whereof they kill Worms, and cure Ulcers: The milky Juice of this Plant mixt with the Powder of Carcapula (a sort of Gutta Gamba or Gemou) is said to perform Wonders in Dropsies. Many of the rest contain'd in this Fifth Volume may be referr'd to our Vitis Idaea, to the Myrtles, the Lauristines or Wild Bays; to the Rhamnus, Euonymus, &c. all which'the Indians apply to many uses in Physick, Mechanicks, and Agriculture. Horti (687) Horti Malabarici. Pars Sexta. IN this Sixth Volume we have describ'd and figur'd 61 Trees and Shrubs, the greatest part whereof are Siliquose, as the Tsetti-Mandarum call'd by Breynius Frutex Pavonius sive Crista Pavonis, and by the Portugueses, Flos Pavonius, from the Pride and Figure of its Flower. Its Seed is not unlike that of Aldinus his Acacia in the Farnesian Garden, yet it seems a-kin to the Senna kind. Tsiapangam, call'd by the Dutch Rasphout, not unlike the Red Wood of Brasil in all its parts, and in the dying Trade, for which 'tis sold up and down. The Lobe or Pod is figur'd by Clusius in his Exhot. l. 3. c. 16. But here we have the full History of it. Mouricou, commonly call'd the Coral Tree, of which there are several Species in both Indies; 'tis spinose, and trifoliate, the Flower and Seed of a coccineous Colour. In the Island of St. Maurice it exceeds in height all the other Trees, therefore 'tis called Elephantina. It's Trunk is loaded with Snails, and the Pepper-Shrub often climbs up it like Ivy. Out of the Wood the Natives makes Sheaths for Knives and Swords, and with it and a calcin'd Stone they polish Perspective Glasses; with the Bark they wash their Vests called Sarassas, and make the Confection Caril out of the Flowers. Wellia Tagera, call'd in several places of India Coupang, of great use and success in gouty cases, as the Kopang-Tree of New England is reported to be by our Planters; hence some style it Arbor Antiarthritica. To (688) To these we might add the Katou-Conna, a sort of Cassia Fistula. The Thora-Paerou or Cajan-Tree, an arborescent Phaseolus or Laburnum, much cultivated at the Cape, affording a most refreshing Pulse to the Sea-men. ~, with whose Seed they weigh Pearls. NiirPongelion, whose long trumpet Flower resembles that of Dutroy; Parrots are said to be much delighted with the Fruit, and the Indians make Nets of the Boughs and Root. Isora Murri with its Conical Pod wreathed Spirally. Here are also many sorts of KandelTrees, some of which are a-kin to the Mangrove of America. The Hina-Pareti, or Rosa Sinensis, with many other elegant Alcea's and Althaea's. The Moringa, with several curious Acacia's and Colutea's. Many of the rest may be refer'd to Clusius his Exotick Lobes and Fruits, which this Volume doth much illustrate, the latter part whereof exhibits some Indian Jasmines, and large Capers, belonging rather to the Bacciferous Tome. A Treatise of the Roman Ports and Forts in Kent. By William Somner, &c. To which is prefixt the Life of Mr. Somner. Printed at Oxford at the Theatre, in 8~. 1693. THIS Book treating more of Antiquities than Natural Philosophy, will upon that account claim less room in these Tracts; wherefore our Account thereof shall be accordingly succinct. The Life of the Author taking up the greater part of the Book, is wrote by an ingenious Gentleman, who therein commemorates several great Patrons of Learning; (689) ing; next he shews the Pains our Author took to acquire the Saxon Language, then almost lost, of the gradual Decay of which Language he gives a short History. Then he gives an Account of our Authors other Studies and Works; whence it appears he intended a compleat Treatise of the Antiquities of Kent, this of the Roman Ports and Forts being a part thereof. Speaking of the Difficulties of compiling Treatises of this Nature, he gives a short View of several Antiquaries, and their Designs and Labours, most whereof are unpublish'd, and many lost. He gives an Account of our Authors Treatise of Gavel-kind, publish'd in the year 1660, in 4to. His Saxon Dictionary; and concludes with a List of his Posthumous Manuscripts. In the Treatise it self the Author begins with Rutupium, and rejecting other Opinions, places it at Sandwich, making Richborough Castle a Pharus to guide the Sea-men into the Harbour, and makes Gessoriacum, more anciently Portus Iccius, to be Bolen; which Rutupium he says was then, and sometime after called Lundenwich, at which place he affirms Caesar first landed; tho the Author of the Life allows of Mr. Halleys Account thereof publish'd in a late Transaction. As to the Goodwyn Sands, he denies them ever to have been firm Land; they are more soft, fluid and porous, and yet tenacious, and consequently more voracious than other Sands, which are harder, solider and rockier. Since they are not mentioned by any Writers of great Antiquity, he believes they may be of late Emergency, and possibly caused by the great Inundation in Flanders about William the Second's, or Henry the First's Time; the recess of which Water from these places probably left the Goodwin Sands shallower than formerly. Next our Author speaks of Dubris, now Dover: To omit his Derivation of the Name, he observes it was a Roman Port, and has all along so continued. Bolen on the French Coast, and Rutupium on the British, being in S time (690) time supplanted, the one first by Witsand, and at last by Calis, the other by Dover, at which place our Author makes Caesar to have first attempted to land: The Fortification of the place in those days was more from Nature than Art The Rock being cut into such Indentures,as resembled and were instead of Walls with Battlements, which Time hath now worn away. Proceeding to the Port of Lemanis, which he makes new Romney, so called from being the Romans Port; and which altho for some Hundreds of years it has lain dry, yet had formerly a fair and commodious River running by it, and emptying it self into the Sea, much nearer the Town than now, where he endeavours to shew, that there was formerly a River of the name of Rother, Romney and Limene,and that it had its mouth at or by Romney; and when,and upon what occasion it forsook its wonted Channel. The two first he proves by old Records, where he observes that it's Mouth was wide enough to receive a Fleet of 250 Sail of Danish Pirats, An. 893. which towed up their Vessels Four Miles within the Land; which place it hath now so forsaken, that there is neither Harbour nor Channel, which was turned another way by a great Inundation of the Sea about the year 1287. and so the Haven lost for want of the River to scour and keep it open. Next he gives the Derivation of Romney, Apledore, Gilford and Winchelsey. And so much for the Ports. As to the Forts, he begins with Regulbium now Reculver, where are still the Remains of Roman Tile; here he observes by the way from Mr. Burton, that all places ending in Chester, arise from the Ruines of the Old Roman Castra, this place being once called Raculf-cester. All the Roman Colonies, &c. being upon Hills, he believes this might be placed on the Ascent where the Church now stands, or in the Church yard, of which place and its Antiquities he enlarges. 2. The next Fort is Rutupium,or Richborough, of which before amongst the Ports. The Remains of the Walls ~ An Additional Note to Page 670. of this Transaction. MEntion being made in this Letter of Mr. Banisters~ of the little Pointel found under the Wings of several 