VIII. An Account of a young Man slain with Thunder and Lightning, Dec. 22. 1698. from Ralph Thoresby, Esq; F. R. S. to Dr. Martin Lister, Fell. Coll. Phys. and R. S. JEremiah Skelton, who lived with his Father Daniel Skelton, at Warley in the Vicaridge of Hallifax in Yorkshire, observing a Storm coming, said, I think it will be Rain, I will go and gather in some of the Corn (a late Harvest, which has been very unkindly in some parts of the North) which was out at a Farm they had in the Cold Edge, about a Quarter of a Mile from their own Dwelling; while at this Work, bringing in a Burden and casting it upon the Barn-Floor, the Tempest begun (52) gun as he came forth again; whereupon he step'd aside for shelter within the Barn Door, and while there, was struck with a dreadful Flash of Fire; a young Woman that liv'd with her Father in the House, that belong'd to this Farm, being sadly affrighted with the Thunder and Lightning (for part of the Sulphurous Matter came down the Chimney, and fill'd the House with a strong Scent, like that of Gunpowder after firing) she leaves the House, and not seeing the young Man about the Barn, goes with speed and tells the Family he was related to, that she fear'd he was slain. They came to the Barn and found it even so: A sad Spectacle, the young Man cast down and many Stones about him; he was laid upon his Face, wholly naked, save a small part of his Shirt about his Neck, and a very little of a Stocking upon one Foot, and so much of a Coat-sleeve as covered the Wrist of one Arm, his Clogs driven from his Feet, one not to be found, and the other Cloven, his Hat not to be found aster search, and the rest of his Garments torn into small Shreds, and cast at considerable distances one bit from another, the Hair of his Head and Beard singed as tho' it had been with a Candle, and a little Hole below his left Eye, which they supposed might be made with the Fall upon a Stone, for there was a great Breach made upon the Barn, the Door tops, both of Stone, broken, and the wall above them fall'n, with the Slate and WaterTables. The Young Man would have been Two and Twenty Years of Age next June, is said to have been sober and hopeful, was buried at Luddenden the Munday following, viz. Dec. 26. 1698. VIII. 