A Letter from Mr. St Georg Ash, Sec. of the Dublin Society, to one of the Secretaries of the Royal Society; concerning a Girl in Ireland, who has several Horns growing on her Body. Trin. Coll. the 10th of Octo. 1685. Hon. Sir. THE Account I here send of the Horny Girl is, much more imperfect then I hoped it would have been, both because its parents or friends, who might give some information of the beginning and occasion of the growing out of these Horns, are not to be found, and that the owner of this Monster would not be perswaded to let us take the figure thereof, which we design'd to present you. She [1203] She is called Ann Jackson, born in the City of Waterford of English parents, who are both said to have been found and healthy; this infirmity did not shew it self, till she was about 3 years old, after which the Mother concealed her out of shame and brought her up privately; but she soon dying, and the father becoming exceeding poor, the Child was left as a charge upon the Parish. She is now between 13 and 14 years of Age, yet can scarce go, and is so little in stature, that I have seen Children of 5 years old taller; she is very silly, speaks but little, and that not plainly, hastily, and with difficulty, her voice is low and rough; her complexion and face well enough, except her Eyes, which look very dead, and seem to have a film or horn growing over 'em, so that she can hardly now perceive the difference of colours. The Horns abound chiefly about the joynts and flexures, and not on the brawny fleshy parts of her body, they are fastned to the Skin like warts, and about the roots resemble them much in substance, tho' toward the extremitys they grow much harder and more Horny; at the end of each Finger and Toe, grows one as long as the Finger or Toe, not strait forwards, but rising a little between the nail and the flesh (for near the roots of these excrescencies is something like a nail) and bending again like a Turky's claw, which too it much resembles in colour; on the other joynts of her Fingers and Toes are smaller ones, which sometimes fall off, others growing in their places. The whole Skin other Feet, Legs, and Arms is very hard and callous, and does dayly grow more and more so; on her Knees and Elbows, and round about the joynts are many Horns; two more remarkable at the point of each Elbow, which twist like Rams Horns, that on the left Arm is above 1/2 Inch broad, and 4 Inches long; on her buttocks grow a great number, which are flat by frequent sitting; at K k k 3 her [1204] her Armpits and the Nipples of her breasts, small hard substances shoot out, much slenderer and whiter then the rest; at each Ear also grows a Horn; The Skin of her neck does of late begin to turn callous and Horny, like that of her Hands and Feet. She eats and drinks heartily, sleeps soundly, and performs all the offices of nature like other healthy people, except that she never had the Evacuation proper to her Sex. This, Sir, is as particular an account as I can gather; I am, (Hond. Sir,) Your very Humble Servant St G E O R G E A S H E. 