A Letter from the Reverend Mr. John Forster to Mr. Henry Baker F. R. S. concerning an Earthquake at Taunton. S I R, I N Answer to your Inquiries concerning the Earthquake, which happen'd last Year on the first Day of July, when I was at Taunton in Somersetshire, after taking some Pains to inform myself more particularly what other People observed in different Places, you may depend on the Truth of what follows. Read June 15. 1748. Between Ten and Eleven o' Clock at Night, on the said first Day of July 1747. being myself in some Company at Taunton, we were suddenly surprised with a rumbling Noise like distant Thunder, which was followed immediately by so considerable a Motion [399] Motion of the Earth, that the Chair whereon I sat rocked under me. The Noise and Shaking seemed to come from a Distance, and approached gradually, in such a manner as if a loaded Waggon had passed along; and continued nearly the same Time as such a Waggon would require to go about an hundred Yards. The Motion went from South-East to North-West; which being the Direction of the Street, on one Side whereof the House stood, some of us imagined at first that a Waggon had really gone along *; but, upon running out and enquiring, we found there had been no Waggon: And indeed, as we were satisfied afterwards, no Waggon could have been heard or felt in the back Room where we sat, on account of its too great Distance from the Street. Notwithstanding this happened between Ten and Eleven o' Clock at Night, when most of the Town were in Bed, the Shock was so sensible, that many People got up very much terrified; and they waking others, the Consternation soon became general; insomuch that, altho' it was a rainy Night, Numbers of People ran out into their Gardens, and spent the Night there, being apprehensive of other Shocks. The Account then newly brought us of a dreadful Earthquake at Lima, being fresh in every body's Mind, contributed to increase the Surprize. A worthy Clergyman, who lives five Miles from Taunton, informed me, that the China and Glasses upon the Cupboards in his House rattled and shook as if they would fall down, and the Bells in his House * See something like this in Phil. Trans. n. 455, p. 289. G g g [400] House rang. A Person who was at that time coming on foot to Taunton likewise told me, that the Noise seemed to him like the Discharge of Cannon at a Distance, and came rumbling onwards, till the Earth moved under him in such a manner that he could hardly keep upon his Legs: Several others also that were abroad assured me they had much ado to save themselves from falling. The Extent of this Earthquake, as far as I can learn, was from Sea to Sea; that is, from the South Chanel to the Severn. It moved from South-East to North-West, and was felt in every Parish through this whole Course, which is in Length about forty Miles: Nor was its Breadth much less; for it was felt at the same time both at Exeter and Crookhorn, which lie from one another about the same Distance of forty Miles, in a Line directly across its beforemention'd Course. This, Sir, is the best Account I am able to give; and I shall add nothing more, but that I am York-Buildings; June 28. 1748. Your most humble Sorvant, John Forster. P. S. I have heard it reported that there were Flashes of Lightning at the time of the Earthquake; but I neither saw any myself, nor have met with any body that could affirm he did. 