Fig. 2. p. 286. a Crumbled Rock or Spected Sand covers the Rocky Bottom & lyes between the loose Stones Stuokan or Rocky Hill ~ Bottom of the Coast Top of the Hill or Coast the West of which you has a View of the Causway at a 300 Yards distance. Path on the side of the Hill or Coast Bottom Way thro Rocky Stones WEST ~ Point Top of the Coast I take to be go Yards high Way on the Strand about 400 Yards Path on the side the high Coast by Hill from h you have way at about once. Here you descend from the top or Edge of the Coast into a Bay about 200 Yards wide. WEST I. Mynde sc. [286] XLII. A Letter from Mr. Emanuel Mendez da Costa, F. R. S. to the Rev. Thomas Birch, D. D. Secr. R. S. concerning the Fossil, found at Dudley in Staffordshire, and described in the Phil. Trans. N. 496. S I R, THE famous fossil, which Dr. Lyttelton shew'd to the Royal Society some time ago from Dudley in Staffordshire, and which is engraved and described in No 496 of the Transactions, caused many arguments to what class of animals it belonged. Dr. Pococke afterwards produced two or three specimens of it extended, which proved it of the crustaceous tribe of animals. But none of his said specimens being very fair, I have taken the liberty to send you a very fair specimen of the said fossil extended, sent me last week from the iron mines at Colnbrookdale in Shropshire, and which absolutely determines me to pronounce it to be the remains of a crustaceous animal, of that kind called Pediculi marini, which are scaled all round, and can at will roll themselves up: And this particular kind (not to my knowledge yet discover'd from sea) may be justly f/nonymed Pediculus marinus major trilobos. Read July 12, 1753. Tho' I heretofore thought it not described by any English author, yet I find it is described and figured, tho' badly, by our late member Mr. Edw. Lhuyd, in his Lithophylacium Britannicum Ichnographia, Epist, I. p. 96. Table XXII. who found them in plenty [287] plenty in quarries, juxta aedes nob. v. D. Gryfidii Rice de Newton, arm. prope oppidum Sancti Teilavii, in comitatu Mariduniae. He calls it Buglossa curta strigoso. He also gives the figure of it without any description, in the Phil. Trans. No 243. I beg you would communicate this supplement to the Royal Society in my name. I remain, with great esteem, S I R, London, July 12, 1753. Your very humble servant, Emanuel Mendez da Costa. 