A Letter from the Rev. Dr. Miles, F. R. S. to Mr. Baker, F. R. S. concerning the Electricity of Water. Dear Sir, I B E G I N with a Resolution to be merciful, and hope to keep it, especially as I persecute you again so soon; and indeed the true Reason of my doing it now, is that this might reach you before I have the Favour of another from you, as it relates to an Article in my last *. Read Feb. 27. 1745-6. I this Afternoon, on reflecting afresh on Monsieur L' Allamand's Experiment ~, resolved to make the folM 2 lowing * p. 79. supra. ~ p. 59. supra. [92] lowing Trial, tho' I was in no Doubt what the Issue would be: I took my tin Tube, which has two Arms to it, directly opposite one to another; and at that Distance from one End of the Tube, which is equal to the Length of one of the Arms, as you may perceive by the Figure in the Margin (not T to trouble you with the Use it was made for, at present): This I suspended by a silk Line from the Ceiling of the Room, letting it hang down of a Length convenient for my Purpose. I then took a China Bason, holding better a a than a Quart, and, having nearly filled the same with Water, I stood on the wax Cake, with this Bason of Water in my Hand, so near the pendulous T, t, the Tube. a, a, the Arms. Tube, that I could apply the Bason to At (t) the Bason of Water it with Convenience: Then, having was held. suffered myself to be electrify'd, I held the Bason so under the Tube, that the lower End dipp'd an Inch more or less in the Water: Upon this a Person approached one End of one of the Arms with the Spirit of Wine in a Spoon, and it was immediately kindled with Vehemence; and at the same time I received on one of my Fingers that held the Bason a pungent Stroke; and that Stroke was given the very Instant of Time the Snap was at the Spoon, or any other Object that was applied. The Wind was then South, and hard Rain, as most Part of the Day; and yet, if one were disposed to indulge Imagination, the Effluvia seemed to act more strongly than is usual. I think there can be no Doubt, but that Water is as good a Medium of Communication to the Effluvia, [93] via, as any Subject whatever; for, that all those which came to the Spirit were convey'd to the Tube by the Water, I am certain; since the Tube dipp'd in the Centre, and was then motionless; so that it never came so near the Bason as to receive any Effluvia from it. I am, Dear Sir, Yours, most affectionately, H. Miles. Tooting, Feb. 20. in Evening, 1745-6. 