[344] Promiscuous Inquiries, chiefly about Cold, formerly sent and recommended to Monsieur Heuelius; together with his Answer return'd to some of them. A considerable piece of the grand Design of the Modern Experimental Philosophers being, to procure and accumulate Materials for a good Natural History, whence to raise in progress of time a solid Structure of Philosophy; all possible Endevours are used in England, to send abroad and recommend to as many of Forreign parts, as there is opportunity, Directions for searching into the Operations of Nature, and for observing what occurs therein, aswell as in Mechanical operations and practises. Several Heads of that kind have been already publish'd for this purpose in several of the former Tracts; to which, as we have added, in this, the Quaeries about Mines, so we shall subjoyn those, that were not long since committed to the care of that Excellent Promoter of Astronomy and Philosophy, Monsieur Heuelius, Consul of Dantzick; who demonstrates so much zeal for the advancement of real knowledge, that he not only improves and promotes it by his own Studies, but labours also to incite others to do the like; having already warmed many of the Northern Climate, particularly Poland, Prusse, Livonia, Sweden and Denmark, into a disposition to be studious and active in inquiring after such particulars concerning Philosophy, as are recommended from hence, and rendred them, very willing to employ themselves in things of that nature. The Inquiries sent to Dantzick, are these; 1. What Signior Burattini (an Italian Gentleman, Master of the Mint to the King of Poland, and reputed a great Master in the Mechanicks) hath perform'd in Diopticks? Whether at present he employs himself, as is related, in grinding a Telescope of 120 foot long? And, if so, what way he means to make use of, (345) of, commodiously to handle a Tube of that length? 2. Whether the same have the Art (as has been written from Paris)to make such Glass, as is not at all inferiour to Venice-glass, and exceeds any plate of Glass, hitherto made there, twice or thrice in bigness? 3. What is the way of making Pot-ashes in Poland? 4. What is to be observed about Succinum or Amber? whether it be an Exsudation of the Sea? whether it be seen to float upon the surface of the Sea? whether it be soft, when 'tis first cast on shore? At what season of the year, and in what manner 'tis taken up, &c? 5. What is to be observ'd in the Digging of Sal Gemmae in Poland? what is the Depth of the Mines, stored with this Salt? what their distance from the Sea, &c? 6. What truth there is in that Relation concerning Swallows being found in Winter under waters congealed, and reviving, if they be fish'd and held to the fire? 7. Whether there be in the Bodnick Bay a Whirl-pool, as is related to be in the Sea of Norway, which is commonly call'd the Maal-stroom? And whether there be any Signs,that speak the communication of those Gulphs by subterraneous passages; as the Jesuit Kircher affirms in his Mundus Subterraneus T.I.P.146? 8. To what depth the Cold in those parts peirces the Earth and Water? 9. Whether their Watches go slower by the intense cold? 10.Whether their Oyls in hard frosts are turn'd into true,that is, hard and britle, Ice? 11. Whether they can freeze there a strong Brine of BaySalt; and a strong Decoction of Sal Gemmae, or Soot; or a strong Solution of Salt of Tartar, or of Sugar of Lead? 12. Whether they can congeal meer Blood, all the serous part thereof being sever'd? Item, Canary Wine; the Lixiviums of Soap-boylers, and such as are prepared of other Salts; as also, the Spirits extracted out of Salts, as Spirit of Vitriol,Nitre, &c? 13. Whether an intense and lasting Frost makes any alteration in Quick-silver, exposed very shallow in a flat Vessel. 14. Whether the Purgative virtue of Catharticks be increased or lessened, or even totally destroy'd by a strong and continued Cold? Z z* 14. Whe (346) 15. Whether Harts-horn thaw'd, and such like substances, using the same method of Distilling, yield the same quantity of Liquor, which they use to yield, when not frozen? 16. What Cold operates in the Fermentation of Liquors? 17. Whether Birds and Wilde Beasts grow white there in Winter, and recover their native colour in Summer? 18. Whether Colours may be concentred by a sharp cold? E. g. A strong Decoction of Cocheneel in a fit Glass? 19. Whether the Electrical virtue of Amber, and the Attractive and Directive force of the Magnet, be changed by a vehement Cold? 20. Whether pieces of Iron and Steel, even thick ones, be made britle by intense frosts; and therefore Smiths are obliged for prevention,to give their Iron and Steel-tools a softer temper? 21. Whether accurate Observations evince,that all Fishes dye in frozen Waters,if the Ice be not broken? Where it is to be diligently inquired into, whether the Cold it self, or the want of changing or ventilating the water, or the privation of Air,be the cause of the death of Fishes? 22. Whether any Physicians or Anatomists have inquired, by freezing to death some Animals (as Rabits, Pullets, Dogs, Cats, &c.) after what manner it is,that Intense Cold kills men? whether they have found any Ice in the Inner parts; and if so, in which of them;Whether in the Ventricles of the Brain and Heart; and in the greater Vessels? These were the Quaeries recommended about a Twelve-month ago. Monsieur Heuelius in a late Letter of his, accompanied with several papers from others, returns this Accompt. THe Inquiries you proposed to me, I did impart to several of my Learned friends: But hitherto I have attained an Answer but to few particulars. Among the rest you'l find a Letter of the Learned Johannes Schefferus, Professor in the Swedish University at Vpsall, wherein he discourses handsomly of several things, being ready to entertain a Literary Commerce with you about such matters. Touching Amber, I am almost of the same mind with him, that it is a kind of Fossil Pitch or Bitumen, seeing it is not only found on the Shore of the Borussian Sea,but also digg'd up in subterraneous places, some German miles distant from the Sea, (347) and that not only in Sandy, but also in other Hills of firmer Earth; of which I have seen my self pretty big pieces. Concerning Swallows,I have frequently heard Fisher-men affirm,that they have here often fish'd them out of the Lakes, in the Winter; but I never have seen it my self. Whilst I am writing this, I receive Letters out of Denmark, advertising me, that those two Learned men, Thomas and Erasmus Bartholin, do intend shortly to answer the same Quaeries. Next Winter, if God vouchsafe me life and health,I purpose to make a Journey to Konigs-berg, where I hope to learn many things, especially about Amber. Thus far in answer to those Inquiries for the present. To this he subjoyns other things, no less fit to be communicated to the Curious, in these words; The Books you have sent me over sea,I have not yet received: I wish, they were all translated into Latin; for I have not English enough, to understand all particulars perfectly. For the rest, you have obliged me,by communicating the Observations of the last Eclipse of the Sun, aswell those made in England, as those of Paris and Madrid. That I may requite you in some measure, I send you my Observations both of that, and the Moons last Eclipse. In the Sun's Eclipse, this is chiefly observable, That the Semidiameter of the Moon from the very beginning, to about 5. or 6. digits of the increasing Phasis was much less than the Rudolphin Account imports. For it was then almost equal to the Semidiameter of the Sun: but, after the greatest Obscuration, when I again contemplated the Moons Semidiameter,I found it 8~ or 9~ bigger than that of the Sun; so that the Semidiameter of the Moon was not always, during this Eclipse, constant to it self. It will therefore be worth while, to be hereafter more diligent and curious in this particular, and accurately to observe in the Phasis of each Digit the Proportion of the Semidiameters of both Luminaries; to the end, that first it may be made manifest, Whether in all the Eclipses of the Sun, or in some only, that variation happens; next, that the Causes of such a Phaenomenon may be diligently inquired into. Of this Variation, the Excellent Ismael Bullialdus hath also observed something at Paris. For he has written to me, That in the same Eclipse the Semidiam. of the Sun to the Semid. of the Moon was, as 16~.9~. to 16~.22~; but that in another Z z * 2 Phasis (348) Phasis of 6 digits, the Semidiameters appear'd equal. These my Observations,if you think them worthy, you may communicate to other Mathematicians. The last year 1665. July 27. (st. n.) the Tables did also indicate an Eclipse of the Moon: but though the Sky here was very cleer, yet the Moon was not at all obscured by the true shadow, but entred only a little into the Penumbra, wherein it continued 50~. The beginning of its touching the Penumbra did then almost happen, when Aquila was elevated 36~ 18~; which is an Example worthy to be noted. I have many Observations of the Eclipses of former years by me, which I could not yet make publick, by reason of the multitude of my business, which do almost over-whelm me. The Eclipse of the Moon of this Year 1666. June 16. (st. n.) was observed from a Hill neer my Garden, to the end,that we might see both together the Suns setting,and the Moon rising. But I was disappointed of my hopes. For very thick Exhalations, besieging the Horizon, where the Moon was to rise, unto 2~. 30~,hindred me from seeing the Moon rise, in the Article of the setting of the Sun. Wherefore the first Phasis of I. dig. 45~. did not appear but in the Moons Altitude of 2~. 30~; when the greatest Obscuration was already past. The End fell out hor. 9. 27~. about 128~ from the Zenith Westward. I am very glad to understand, that you have so good Telescopes, as to make such considerable Observations in Jupiter and Mars, as you have lately done in England. I have no leasure now, by reason of the Observations of the Fixt Stars, which I now almost constantly am employ'd about, to do any thing in the advancing of Telescopes. I am obliged to finish the Catalogue of the Fixt Stars; having mean while the contentment to find, that many excellent persons labour about the Improvement of Optick Glasses. If I could get a good one of those of 60. foot, you mention, at a reasonable rate, you would oblige me in sending me one; perhaps may I be so happy, as to make likewise some good discovery or other, by the help thereof. In the mean time, let me know, I pray, the Dimensions of those Glasses, and how they are to be managed. The ingenious Burattini has not yet finisht his Telescope; as soon as (349) as he hath, I shall acquaint you with it. Before I conclude, I must give notice to the Lovers of Astronomy, that on the 24. of September (st. n) of this year, I have observ'd that New Star in Pectore Cygni (which from the year 1662. untill this time hath been almost altogether hid) not only with my naked Eye, like a Star of the sixth or seventh Magnitude, but also with a very great Sextant. It is still in the very same place of the Heavens, where it was formerly from A. 1601. to almost 1662. For, its Distance from Scheat Pegasi hath been by me found 35~. 51~. 20~. and from Marcab, 43~.10~.50~; which Distances (as I have found in my Journal) are altogether equal to those,which I observ'd A. 1658. the 1. of November. For the Distance from Scheat at that time was 35~.51~.20~. and from Marcab, 43~.10~. 25~: where that former from Scheat exactly answers to the recent; and that from Marcab, 'tis true, differs in a very few Seconds, but that disparity is of no moment, since it only proceeded from thence, that this New Star is not yet so distinctly to be seen, as at that time, when it was of the third Magnitude. It is therefore certain, that it is the self same Star, which Kepler did first see A. 1601. and continued untill A. 1662. But whether in time it will grow bigger and bigger, or be lost again, time will shew. He that will observe this Star, must take care, lest he mistake those three more Southern ones, of the Sixth Magnitude, and now in a manner somewhat brighter (though not extant on the Globe) than the New Star in Collo Cygni. The highest of those three, is distant from Scheat Pegast 36~.25~.45~; the middlemost from the same, 37~.25~.20~. and the lowest, 38.4~.30~. Farewell, and assure the Most Illustrious Royal Society of my humblest Services. * A Letter, written since from Paris, advertises, that some of the Curious there have received one of these Glasses of Sr. Burattini, and do esteem it to be good without mentioning the Dimension of it: which yet is look'd for by the next. So far Monsieur Heuelius, whose accurate Calcul. of the Solar Eclipses Duration, Quantity, &c. is intended to be fully represented the next Month, since it could not be conveniently done this time. The annexed Papers follow. One is from Monsieur Joh. Schefferus, to this purpose. 1. That he is consident, the Royal Society of England will do much good for the advancement of usefull Knowledge. 2. [350] 2. That he conceives Amber to be a kind of Fossil Pitch, whose Veins lie at the bottom of the Sea; believing that it is hardned in tract of time, and by the motion of the Sea cast on shore:He adds, that hitherto it hath been believed,not to be found but in Borussia; but he assures, that it is also found in Sueden, on the shores of the Isle Biorkoo, in the Lake Melero, whose water is sweet. Of this, he saith, he hath a fine piece by him, two inches large and thick, presented him by one, that himself with his own hands had gathered it and several other pieces, on the shore of the said Island; affirming withall from the mouth of a Shepherd of that place, that it is thrown out by a strong Wind, bearing upon the shore. 3. That it is most certain, that Swallows link themselves towards Autumne into Lakes, no otherwise than Frogs; and that many have assured him of it, who had seen them drawn out with a Net together with Fishes, and put to the fire, and thereby revived. 4. That 'tis also very true, that many Animals there grow white in Winter, and recover their own Colour in Summer. That himself hath seen and had Hares, which about the beginning of Winter and Spring were half white, and half of their native colour: that in the midst of winter he never saw any but all white. That Foxes also are white in Winter; and Squirrels grayish, mixt of dark and white colour. 5. That 'tis known there generally, that Fishes are killed, by reason of the Ice not being broken: but first, in ponds only or narrow Lakes; next, in such Lakes only, where the Ice is pretty thick; for, where 'tis thin, they dye not so easily. Lastly, that those Fishes that lie in slimy or clayie ground, dye not so soon as others. But, he adds, that even in great Lakes, when 'tis a very bitter Frost, Ice is wont to be broken, either by the force of the Waves, or of the Imprisoned Vapors, raised by the agitation of the Water, and then bursting out with an impetuosity; witness the noise made by the rupture of the Ice through the whole length of such Lakes, which he affirms to be not less terrible than if many guns went off together. Whereby it falls out, that Fishes are seldom found dead in great Lakes. 6. That neither Oyle, nor a strong Brine of Bay-Salt, is truly con(351) congeal'd into Ice, in those parts, Viz. at Upsall in Sueden. 7. That the Frost pierces into the Earth, two Cubits or Swedish Ells; and what moisture is found in it,is white, like Ice: That Waters, if standing, freeze to a greater depth,even to three such Ells or more; but those that have a Current, less: That rapid Rivers freeze not at all; nor ever-bubling Springs; and that these latter seem even to be warmer in Winter, than Summer. So far this Observer; who likewise offers his Services in giving an answer to the remaining Queries, and in entertaining a commerce in such other Philosophical matters, as he is conversant in. Another Paper written by Monsieur Fehre, chief Secretary to Prince Ratzivil, contains these particulars; 1. That the College of the Learned in Borussia finds it not so easie to resolve all those Quaeries sent from England to M. Heuelius: but yet that they will try what may be done upon it. 2. That as for himself, he can assure from his own Experience concerning the Effects of Cold; First, That in the War against the Muscovites and Cosacks, A. 1655. in January, in White Russia, at the Siege of Bichow, 30. Leagues from Smolensko, and three from Moihilo,near the River Boristhenes, when they had Quarter in a Village call'd Iskau, they were seized on with such a Frost, that all their Provisions of Spanish Wines or Petersimen, and Beere, were in one Night frozen upon the Sleds, notwithstanding they were cover'd with Straw; in so much, that when next morning they would have drawn of those Liquors, they found all dry, and were constrain'd to carry them into a Stove, to thaw them; which they could not do in two whole days, and were obliged to break the Vessels, and put pieces of the Icy Wine into Kettles to thaw them over the Fire, for Drink: That they asked not for a Draught, but a Morselof Wine or Beer: That their Horses had no better cheer than themselves, as to matter of Drink; the Pool of the Village being so thoroughly frozen, that there was but very little Water left between the Ice and the bottom of the Pool; whereby the poor Beasts were forced to drink with great reverence, kneeling on their forefeet to thrust their heads into the holes, made for them in the Ice, and to suck thence some drops of Water; and that, if they had not had Snow to eat, there would have dyed a far greater number (352) number of them, than there did. Moreover, that he observed, that the Hungarian Wine, of which they had a Tun, resisted the Cold better, than the Peter Simen; for it was not so much frozen; unless it be, that the Butler had more care of that, than the rest, by transporting it sooner into the Stove, when he found the excess of Cold. Again, that one presenting him in the March with some Aqua-vitae, the Scrue of the Flagon, put to his Mouth, stuck so close to his Lips, that he could not draw it off, without drawing bloud, In a third Paper, I find these particulars from the same M.Fehre. 1. That a considerable person, one Dr. Becker, a great Lover of Curious Inquiries, has given him hopes to entertain this Philosophical Commerce. 2. That he hath seen men dye in Poland and Lithuania both of Heat and Cold. And first, that A. 1653. in July, being with this present King of Poland in march from Leopoli to the Camp of Glignani, it was so furiously hot that day of their march, that it caused such an alteration in that Regiment of Foot, which was the Kings Guard, marching most of them bare-foot upon Sands, that more than an hundred of them fell down altogether disabled, whereof a dozen dyed out-right, without any other Sickness. Secondly, as to the Cold, that the frost was so bitter, that 3.Souldiers dyed of it, A.1665. the 2.of January,in passing a long Ditch: besides, that divers persons lost some of their Lims. 