V. A Remark on Father Hardouin's Amendment of a Passage in Pliny's Natural History, Lib. II. ~ LXXIV. Edit. Paris. folio, 1723. by Martin Folkes, Esquire, Pr. R. S. VAsaque horoscopa non ubique eadem sunt usui, in trecentis stadiis, aut ut longissime, in quingentis, mutantibus semet umbris solis. Itaque umbilici (quem gnomonem appellant) umbra in AEgypto meridiano tempore, aequinoctii die, paulo plusquam dimidiam gnomonis mensuram efficit. In urbe Roma nona pars gnomonis deest umbrae. In oppido Ancone superest quinta. Decima in parte Italiae, quae Venetia appellatur, eisdem horis umbra gnomoni par fit. Read Jan. 22. 1746-7. The geographical Reader cannot but observe here immediately, that somewhat is faultry in this Passage as it stands; since the equinoctial Shadow of the Gnomon being made shorter at Ancona than at Rome, the Latitude of Ancona will consequently be made lesser than that of Rome; whereas it is known to be [366] be considerably greater; Ancona standing on the Adriatic, about two Degrees to the North of that Capital. But, upon turning to Father Hardouin's Observations upon this Passage, I find the Text to have been altered by him in a very remarkable Manner, from all the former printed Editions. His Observation is as follows: Hactenus editum est, in oppido Ancone superest quinta XXX. In parte Italiae, &c. M S S. hic variant. Nos ex certissima conjectura edi curavimus, Ancone superest quinta. decima in parte Italiae, &c. In decima regione Italiae Venetiam statuit in geographicis libro sequente. Neque simile veri est, in tot particulas, hoc est, in quintas tricesimas, ab homine ~ ubique agente, gnomonem umbramve dividi. Upon which Words it may be noted, that altho' the Reverend Father acquaints us he had met with some Variation in the Manuscripts, yet he appeals to none; nay, he even tells us expresly, that his Amendment was purely made upon Conjecture; whence we may safely conclude, that it stands unsupported by any various Reading or Authority whatsoever. He at the same time also acknowleges, that all the printed Editions conspire in another Reading; which I have found to be true in several I have had Occasion to look into, with this only Variation, that whereas the first Edition in 1469, and several of the following ones, print the Word quinta at Length, and XXX only in Figures; some of the later ones, and that by the Elzevirs particularly in 1635, print both the Words at Length; the whole Passage running thus: Umbilici (quem gnomonem appellant) umbra in AEgypto meridiano tempore, aequinoctii die, paulo plus [367] plus quam dimidiam gnomonis mensuram esficit: in urbe Roma nona pars gnomonis deest umbrae: in oppido Ancone superest quinta trigesima: in parte Italiae quae Venetia appellatur, iisdem horis umbra gnomoni par fit. The plain Meaning of these Words is only this, that the Length of the Shadow of a Gnomon or upright Style at Noon, on the Day of Equinox, is, in Egypt, little more than half the Height of the Gnomon; that the same at Rome wants a ninth Part of that Height; that at Ancona the Height of the Gnomon exceeds the Length of its Shadow, by one thirty-fifth Part, or is in Proportion to it as 35 is to 34; and that, in the Part of Italy which is called Venetia, the Length of the Shadow, and the Height of the Gnomon, are equal to each other. The Particulars here mention'd are respectively true, in the 4 following Latitudes, 26~ 34~, 41~ 38~, 44~ 10~, and 45~. The first of which is the Latitude of the middle Parts of Egypt, and the last that of several Places in the Territories of Venice, the City itself standing, according to Manfredi's Table, in the Latitude of 45~ 33~, and Padua in that of 45~ 28~. The Latitude of this last Place is given by Ptolomy 44~ 30~, and that of Aquileia at the Head of the Adriatic in the Friuli exactly 45 Degrees. The Latitude of Rome, according to Ptolemy 41~ 40~, only exceeds that collected from the Text before us by 2 Minutes; and his last again falls short 15~1/2 of that delivered by Manfredi and Bianchini 41~ 54~1/2. Besides which it may be noted, that the very Fact here mention'd is also spoken of by Vitruvius, as Father Hardouin has himself in another of B b b his [368] his Notes observed. Sol aequinoctiali tempore ariete libraque versando, quas ex gnomone partes habet novem, eas umbrae facit octo, in declinatione caeli, quae est Romae. We come last to the Latitude of Ancona, which is given by Manfredi 43~ 54~, or 16~ less than that above collected from Pliny; but which is set down by Ptolemy 43~ 40~, half a Degree less than the same. This may however be looked upon as no bad Observation, considering the Time when, and the Manner how, it is supposed to have been made, as we are ignorant of the Hour when the Sun really crossed the Equator on the Days of Observation; and especially as it comes, with all its Imperfections, as near to the Truth, as that reported both by our Author and Vitruvius to have been made at Rome itself; and as it only exceeds the true Latitude by about the same Quantity, which that given by Ptolemy seventy or eighty Years afterwards fell short of the same. It therefore appears, upon the whole, that this Text needed no Correction; and for the Observation, that 35 Parts were too many for a Gnomon to be divided into, it will be found to have very little Weight, when it is considered, that the Antients made use of very large Gnomons upon these Occasions; that one of the Obelisks now standing at Rome, that of St. John's Lateran, is in Height 108 English Feet without the Pedestal; and that the other, still buried under the Campo Marzo, which was formerly used for this very Purpose, wanted but little of the same Height. The thirty-fifth Part therefore of the Height of such a Stone, did not fall short [369] short of three English Feet; a much less Quantity than which would easily discover itself in the Shadow, whose Length, notwithstanding all Difficulties arising from the Penumbra, might certainly be determined to less than half a Foot. I shall just add to this Remark the Description given by Pliny of this Gnomon; who, speaking in his xxxvi. Book, ~ XIV. of the Obelisks that were at Rome in his Time, adds, in the Beginning of ~ XV. Ei, qui est in campo, divus Augustus addidit mirabilem usum, ad deprehendendas solis umbras, dierumque ac noctium ita magnitudines, strato lapide ad magnitudinem obelisci, cui par fieret umbra, brumae confectae die, sexta hora, paulatimque per regulas (quae sunt ex aere inclusae) singulis diebus decresceret, ac rursus augesceret. From which Description I understand, that there was laid down, from the Foot of the Obelisc Northward, a level Pavement of Stone, equal in Breadth to the Breadth of the Obelisc itself, and equal in Length to its Shadow at Noon upon the shortest Day; that is to say, that its Length was to the Height of the Obelise almost as 22 are to 10; and that into this Pavement there were properly let in parallel Rulers of Brass, whose Distances from the Point, directly under the Apex of the Obelisc, were respectively equal to the Lengths of the Shadow thereof at Noon, on the several Days of the Year; as the same Lengths decreased from the shortest Day to the longest, and again increased from the longest Day to the shortest. After which the Author mentions in a Passage greatly corrupted, and therefore now almost unintelligible; that one Manilius, or Manlius, had added B b b 2 to [370] to the Top of the Obelisc a gilded Ball, whose Use was to make the Shadow of the Extremity the more observable, as the middle Part of the Shadow of that Globe could readily be estimated; whereas the Shadow of an Apex would, at so great a Distance, be intirely imperceptible. VI. 