[214] XXXIII. A Letter from Mr. J. R. Forster, F. A. S. to M. Maty, M. D. Sec. R. S. containing some Account of a new Map of the River Volga. Warrington, October 24, 1768. S I R, I Received both your favours of the 1 st and 17th instant, in due time. Read Nov. 8, 1768. I am very glad the committee of the Royal Society has done my map of the river Volga * the honour of having it engraved and published in their Transactions. You wished to be informed of the manner in which it was constructed. I readily comply with your desire, and send you the following short account, which I hope will be satisfactory. At my arrival at Saratof, which is the chief town of the district given by her Russian majesty to the German colonies, I got two MSS. maps in Russian characters, done by Mr. Reuss, a major, and able engineer, in the Russian service, who went along the river Volga, from Saratof to Tsaritsin, by water; and, at every winding of the river, went on shore to take the angles, and to measure the meadows beyond the Volga; this map was upon five sheets, pasted together. The other MS. map had the same author, consisted of eight sheets, and described the country from Petrofsk and Saratof, to Tsaritsin, along the Volga, and westward to the rivers Choper and Don. It was constructed upon an actual survey, in which the major was assisted by three engineer officers; however, * See T A B. IX. p. 216. as [215] as this survey had been made in a hurry, by measuring the roads on horseback, with a long rope of ten poles, and taking the angles only from village to village, I cannot depend upon it as entirely correct. The country from Saratof to Dmitrefsk I passed through myself; I measured one base, and then took, with an instrument, the angles of the most striking objects, as hills, villages, and rivers, on both sides of the Volga. On the eastern side of that river, I got as far as the lake Yelton, and the sandy desart Ryn, always using the same method: from thence I went to the river Yerooslan, almost to its very source, and came back again, to the place where it enters the Volga; from thence I proceeded to Saratof, along the Volga, rectifying Mr. Reuss's angles and maps; and, besides, I made an excursion 30 miles above Saratof, on the east shore of the Volga. All the places, which are marked with lines in my map, are either colonies already settled, or places intended to be filled with colonists, who were then on their march from Petersburgh towards Saratof. When I presented this map to the Academy of Sciences at Petersburg, it was looked upon as an Unique; for they had in the geographic department not one map of this country, although more than 3000 MSS. maps and drawings were kept in their portefolios. I can, therefore, very justly call this the first tolerable map; and whoever will take the trouble of comparing my work with Mr. Hanway's, or Olearius's map, will easily see the remarkable difference between them. Mr. Hanway went in a great hurry over this part of the country, and had no instruments, nor did he make any survey; he was also unacquainted with the language of the country; the [216] the knowledge of which is of great importance to one who would succeed in an undertaking of this nature. Olearius never stirred out of his ship: and the map contained in the Russian Atlas, is so shamefully deficient and faulty, that the academy very readily acknowledged the improvements made by my map, and thankfully accepted of it, although no use was made of it. During my stay at London, in 1766, I made a revision of my papers, calculated again all distances and angles, and corrected my map in more than twenty places, so that this may be justly called a new and improved one. The canal made by Perry, in the year 1697-1701, for the conjunction of the Volga and Don, I surveyed; and constructed a special map of it, of more than three yards size, and can therefore answer for its accuracy. The canal begun by the Turks, nobody ever took notice of besides me in a map; which I did, from an account I got, by means of Mr. Reuss, and some others, and from a rough sketch of it, communicated to me. That part of the Don, which appears in the map, is taken from the very accurate and famous map made by the vice-admiral Cornelius Cruys, and published in fourteen sheets in Holland. This, I hope, will satisfy the public in respect to the accuracy of the performance, and enable the Society to judge better, whether it deserves to be published or not. I am, with the greatest respect, S I R, Your most obliged and humble servant, John Reinhold Forster. XXXIV. An PETROF SK 52 Osherok Poliloska R. Berezoska R. Yikara R. D I S T Polilofka Lisichina Sokori Bo gdanofka Kazelefka R Balanda R. Ytkara Bogdanofka S osnova ~ Sloboda Kapookhofka ~ Duoyenna R. Doorasova Latryk R. Worobyefka S A R A Byelgaza R. Naoomofka Duoyenka Relna R. Bakhmyelefka Golodyefka Relna R. Feodorofka Golodyefka Reebo oskha R. Lisiegora Sheerokoye Shakhoua Chifka R. Golitzina Great Karamysh R. Norka R. Splaunookha R. Gorshka Talofka Bobrofka Karamysh Kochkarnoye Lake Bobro Neuyeshkeeno R. Kapen R. Neuyeshkeeno Kapen D I S T R I C T Topofka b Les Dobichka Knyazefka Kanena R. O F Peokovatka Zolo French Sel Graznoye Yelshoo Z O L O T O Y Tersa R. Chelkan R. Lunoye Perevazenka R. Kamenka ~ R. ~ K. Dar Dobrynka Gooselka R. Cherbolofka Roodneye Graznookha Dobrynka Dobrynka R. D I S T R I C T Boorlook R. ~ De Lake of ~ ~ ~ Roodneye R Little ~ OF ~ ~ M. Great Yrghis R. Chardym R. Yelshanka R. S T R I C T Okori Little Yrghis R. Koordyoom R. Koordyoom Nakhoi Syl R. O F Gooselka R SARATOF Pakro fskaya Karaman R. Sloba oda Saratofka R. R A T O F Upper Oonyek St. John Mons ~ Kameloska Metchetnaya R. Ghakhan R. Tornofka R. Gorshka R. Sinofka Mookhor Tarlyk R. Talofka R. Sinenka ka Bobrofka R. Sosnofka Mordova Little Targoon R. nofka Gholoi Kargmysh Akhmat Little Tarlyk R. Palatins Sellem ent Lesnoi o Karamysh Beezooka R. Studionka Kamenka Tarlyk R. Zolotookha Great French Settlement Zolotoy Great Melaookha Yelshanka Bannoy nka Salt R. Swizzer Lit. Cooba R. Danilofka a Gr. Cooba R. Cherbalofka Read R. znookha Galka Settlement of 3000 Families Galka ~ Yerooslan R. Great Targoon R. ~ Keoro R. ~ ~ ~ Philos.Trans.Vol.LVIII.TAB.IX.p.216. A most accurate MAP, of those Parts of the ASTRACAN GOVERNMENT upon the RIVER WOLGA, wherein the New Colonies are Settled Taken from Original Drawings & Observations made in a late Survey of those Countries. Oosyen R. Russian Werstes or Miles. 5 15 35 55 105 English Miles. 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 69 German Miles. 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 p.216. 52 51 ~ 105 69~ 15 ~ of ~ Doobofka ~ R. Little Kazanha R. Lipofka O F Ooshy M. Zayefka R. Gr. Kazanka R. ~ R. Krasno yar ~ ~ Ruins call'd canal Devils Tonn 1697-1701 DMITREFSK Monastirskaya D M I T R E F S K 30 ~ ~ ditsa R. Ylav la R. ~ ~ Akhovatka Peskovatka R. Talofka R. Bolookleya R. Berezofka R. D I S T R I C T Badenka R. Karaveyka Tyshanka R. ~ R. O F ~ R. Bolo okleya Berezofka R. D O O B O F K A Proley Kas ~ R. Sookhodol R. Ylavla R Great Bederka R. ~ 49 Cherkasseya R. Lit. Bederka R. ~ Kremens kaya Stanitsa Zooyevo a destroyed ~ Moschee Mon. ~ Stanitsa Kletskaya Stanitsa Perekopskaya Stanitsa Novo Grigorefskaya Don R. Bistraya R. Stanitsa Staro Ylavla R. Grigorefskaya Upper Perekop R. Ylavlinskaya Stanitsa Tishanka R. Canal made by Stanilsa ~ Selim II in the Year 1568 ~ Serotinskaya Kachalinskaya Stanitsa Donskaya Fort Great ~ R. Sakarskaya ~ Trekhostrofs Fort ~ Stanitsa Sakara R. Grachess Wertacheya R. Fort Koora R. Lake of Swans Nikolskaya Sloboda Sweet Water Lake Apple R. Magoota Reed R. Kharu Sakha R. Wells Sweet Wells Lake Oolan Sakha R. Salt R. Yelton Fort Salt Water ~ Gr. Smoroda R. Lit ~ R. Bolookhta Laki ~ Water Lake Tadgi-Khoodook-Moodoom Morass W O L G A R. Tadgi-Koodook-Moodoom okleya Wells Morasses Wells K A Proley Kashy R. Liman Morass Strelna R. Wodenaya R. Alenaya R. Doobofka Doobofka R. Upper Pyachoogha R. M A N T O K H O Y Upper ~ R. The Ruins of Seray the residence of the Mogul Khans in Kiptchak ~ R. ~ R. ~ SIN ~ Mechetnaya Akhtooba ~ Grachefskaya Fort ~ R ~. 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 Leagues. 5 10 15 20 G R E A T S A N D Y D E S A R T R Y N ~ 15 20 50 49 ~ a R Sakara R. Wertacheya R. ~ Fort Little ~ R. Peskovatka R. 4 8 ~ Stanitsa D o n R i v e r Karpofka R. Pyatee Yzbanskaya Stanitsa Donskaya Tsaritsa R. efka R. Mechetnaya Grachefskaya Fort Fort A k h t o o b a R. Tsaritsa R. D I S T R I C T Sare pta O F Settlement of the ~ Brethren T S A R I T S I N W O L G A R. ~ R. Sarpa R. R. TCHORNOYAR J. Mynde ~. 4 8 Mynde ~. 