XXVII. Another Account of the same Earthquake: In a Letter from Mr. Molloy, dated there April 3, 1761, to Keane Fitzgerald, Esq; F. R. S. ON the 31st ult. at twelve o'clock, we had a most dreadful violent shock of an earthquake, that held constant for five minutes, as near as I can judge. I was up two pair of stairs, at a friend's house, when it began, and expected to have been buried in the ruins. The shock, as it appeared to me, seemed to spring from the bowels of the earth, and the motion to be directly up and down. It is the general opinion, that if it had run from west to east, or from any quarter of the globe to the other, as the great one the first of November 1755 did, there would not have been a house left standing in this unfortunate place, as all the gentlemen that reside here say, it was more severe and constant for the time than the former. Many buildings have tumbled down, but few people were killed; some have died through fear, and about 270 felons, in the confusion it occasioned, got out of gaol, who, it is feared, will commit great excesses, before they are taken again. Orders were issued by S. J. de Carvalho, that, on pain of death, no person Read April 23, 1761. [143] person should leave the city by land, nor go on board any ship, or boat, without a licence from an office, appointed for that purpose. The agitation of the sea was very great, during the time of the tremor; and, for some hours after it, the waters ebbed and flowed many feet perpendicularly, several times in the space of every six minutes. Ships at anchor in the river, though riding in some fathoms of water, were left dry at some intervals. In short, nothing but terror and desolation appeared in every countenance; the earth groaned in so dreadful a manner, that we expected every moment it would open, and swallow this place, and all its inhabitants. We have had several slight shocks since, and one this morning, about two o'clock, which was very severe; our house shook like a bulrush. There was another more slight about five. 