IV. An Account of a Meteor seen near Holkam in Norfolk, Aug. 1741. transmitted to the R O Y A L SOCIETY by the Right Honble Thomas Lord Lovell, F. R. S. THomas Savory, John Walker, and others of Lord Lovell's Ploughmen, being at Plough about the Middle of August 1741. on a fair Day, at Ten o'Clock in the Morning, saw on a Heath about a Quarter of a Mile from them, a Wind like a Whirlwind, come gradually towards them, in a strait Line from East to West. It passed through the Field where they were at Plough, tore up the Stubble in the ploughed Ground, and also the Grass besides the same, for Two Miles in Length, and Thirty Yards in Breadth. When it came to some Closes at the Top of a rising Ground called Ferrybush-Closes, Philip Henning, and others, who were houghing Turneps, saw it appear like a great Flash or Ball of Fire. After having seen the Wind come into the Closes, Robert May was in a Cottage where he lives by a Road-side, at the Bottom of the Park, about a Furlong down-hill from the Close, when one of his Children about Six Years old, who was playing at the Door, cried out, That Ferrybush-Closes were on Fire; on which he went out to look, but saw no Fire, only a terrible Smoak, and heard such a Noise as Fire makes when a Barn is burning. Read Nov. 4. 1742. [184] burning. He then saw the Wind come from the Closes in the same manner as before-mentioned, making a terrible Noise, like that of a violent Fire, also like Carts over stony Ground, which passed by his House, tearing up the Stones in the Road, and tore up a Rank of Pales, and sprung several of the Posts out of their Places, and carried a pewter Plate that stood on the Outside of the Window, about Forty Yards from the House; and a large Box-cover about an Inch and half thick and Four Feet square, and cross-barred, which he covers his Birds with, was carried away much further, and torn all to pieces; and the Gravel flew about, and also the Flint-stones like Feathers. It also broke down some of Mr. Knotts's Fences, and frightened the Cattle in a terrible manner. And, what is most remarkable, that every-where else but in this Place, the Weather was clear and fine, and no Sign of any Storm or Disturbance whatsoever. About a Quarter of an Hour after, Philip Henning, and Two of his Partners, Turnep-houghers, who were at Work about Two Furlongs off, came to the said Robert May, and told him, they were glad to see him alive; for they expected, that he and his Family, House and all, had been destroyed, having seen the Fire go that Way, and heard a Noise, as if the House had been demolished. Robert May smelled a most terrible Smell of Sulphur, both before and after the Wind passed him, and heard the Noise a great while after seeing the Smoak, before he saw the Wind, an Hedge intercepting his Sight. He says it moved so slowly forward, as to be near Ten Minutes in coming from the Closes to the House. V. An 