Some promiscuous Observations, made in Somerset-shire, and imparted by the above-mention'd Dr. Beale. His words are these, in a Letter to the Publisher, of the 24. Septemb. 1666. at Yeovill in Somersetshire; I have two or three remarks, perhaps not unworthy to be recorded for further application in like cases of time and place. 1. In the Moores from hence towards Bridgewater, in the extreme drought, we have endured this Summer, some lengths of pasture grew much sooner withered and parched, than the other pasture. And this parched part seem'd to bear the length and shape (in grosse) of Trees. They digg'd, and found, in the place, Oakes indeed, as black as Ebony. And hence they have been instructed to find and take up many hundreds of Oakes, as a neighbour of good credit assures me. This advertisement may be instructive for other parts, as Kent, Essex, Lincoln, &c. 2. My Cosen Philips of Montague has in his pastures of Socke, about three miles off, a large Pool, to which Pigeons resort; but the Cattle will not drink of it, no not in the extream want of water in this drought. To the taste it is not only brackish, but hath other loathsome tasts. In a Veniceglass it looked greenish and clear, just like the most greenish Cider as soon as it is perfectly clarifyed. I boyl'd a Pint of it in a Posnet of Bell-Mettall (commonly used to preserve Sweatmeats:) suddenly it yeilded a thick froth, Whence I scumm'd half a score Spoonfulls; of which the inclosed is a part. *Suffring the water to be boyl'd all away, it left much of the same on the sides and bottom of the Posnet. * This had_somewhat of a Vitriolate taste. But the Experiment being made with greater quantities of this water, which questionless will be done, the nature and kind of it may be better known. 3. From Lamport, towards Bridge-water, Eles are so cheap in the frosts of Winter, that they vend them for little. Their abundance is from hence, that as the people walk, in the frosty Mornings, on the banks of the river, they discern, towards the edges of the banks, some parts not hoare, as the rest, but green; where searching the holes of the banks, they find heaps of Eeles. V 3 