(631) I. An Account of the Dissection of a Child. Communicated in a Letter to Dr. Brook Taylor, R. S. Secr. By Dr. Patrick Blair, R. S. S. A S nothing is more apt to lead us to the Knowledge of the several Distempers which affect the Human Body, and to acquaint us with the just Prognosticks of the like Cases, than the opening of distemper'd Persons. I hop'd it would not be an unacceptable instance of my Zeal and Readiness to serve the Most Honourable the Royal Society upon all occasions, to desire you to present them with the following account of the Dissection I lately made of a Child. This Child was five Months old, and was so emaciated, that he appear'd rather to have decreased, than to have encreased in Bulk, from the time of his Birth; his whole Body not weighing above five Pounds. The Skin and Muscles of the Abdomen were very thin, but the Peritoneum was preternaturally thick. The Ventriculus was more like to an Intestin than to a Stomach, its length being five Inches, and its breadth but one Inch. The Coats of it were thick and fleshy, and the Cavity very inconsiderable. The Pylorus, and almost half of the Duodenum were Cartilaginous, and something inclin'd to an Ossification, so that no Nourishment could have passed into the Intestins, tho' the Stomach had been capable of containing it, which makes it no Wonder that the Body was so emaciated. There were scarce any foot steps of the Omentum to be seen, even at the Bottom of the Stomach, to which it usually adheres. The (632) The right Lobe of the Lungs adhered firmly to the Ribs and had three Exulcerations, which contain'd purulent Matter. It was so very thin and compact, that it seem'd as if that Lobe had never been of use in Respiration. The left Lobe was of a more florid Red, spongy, and free from any Adhesion. Upon enquiring after the Symptoms this Child had been affected with, his Mother told me, he seem'd to be healthy till he was about a Month old, when he was seized with a violent Vomiting, and a Stoppage of Urine and Stool. Some time after, both these became more regular, but the Vomiting still continued. He seem'd to have a great Appetite, taking what Suck, Drink, or other Food was offer'd him, with a kind of eagerness; but he immediately threw it all up again. He had all along breathed freely, and had no Cough, notwithstanding the Exulcerations above mention'd. This confirm'd me in the Opinion that he had never Breath'd, by the right Lobe of the Lungs. There could be nothing more emaciated than this Child was; and it seems to be worth considering, whether his Illness might not be owing in a great measure to the want of the Omentum, (for he seem'd never to havc had any); as also, whence it is that this Part is generally consum'd in an Atrophy, and in most Hydropical Cases, except where it self is more especially concerned. II. De 