PRESENTS RECMIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, From November 1812 to ufuly 1813, WITH THZ NAMES OF THE DONORS. t8 i. PRESENTTS. D HO S. JY'oy. 5. A Description of the Collection of ancient Marbles The Trustees of the Briin the British Museum with Engravings. Part 1. tish Museum. London, iSiz. e A Treatise on Theatres, by George Saunders. Mr. George Saunder. London, 1790. Tracts on Mathematical and Philosophical SubDr. Charles Hutton. jects, by Charles Hutton, LL. D. and F. R. S. London3, IS 2. 3 Vols. 80 The Elements of Botany, or Outlines of the Natu. Dr. Benj. Smith Barton, ral History of Vegetables, by Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D. Philadelphia, i8iz. 8s Elements of Chemnical Philosophy, by Sir HumSir Humphry Davy. phry Davy. Part 1. Vol. I. London, i8i2. 80 Essai stur ia Rage, par M., J. F. A. Lalouette. 8 Mr. J. F. A. Lalouette, Institutions de Physique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, Mr. B. G. Sage. 18 I I 3V'Ols. 80 Of the Circle and the infinite Incommensurability James Glennie, Esq. of its Area to the Square of its Diameter, with a Demonstration of Dr, Matthew Stewart's 42d Proposition, by James Gleunie, Esq. F. R. S. 40 The Speech of His Royal Highness the Dtuke of The Editor. Sussex in the House of Lords, April zi, i8Iz. 4.0 An Account of a Case of Recovery, after an exMr. William Maiden. traordinary Accident, in which the Shaft of a Chaise had becii forced through the Thorax, by Wiiliarn Maiden. London, I8Iz. 40 Eloge Historique de M Sabatier, par M. Percy. Mr. Percy. Paris, i Si s. 80 Della Cometa del iSi i, osservata, nella Specola Mr. Piazzi; di Palermo, par Gius. Piazzi. 41 1e 3. PRESENTS. DONwOR Nov. 5. Observafions on Dr. Sturges Pamphlet respecting T. B. Howell, Esto Non-residence of the Clergy, in a Letter from T. B. Howell, Esq. to Mr. Baron Maseres. London, 1803. 8The Philosophical Magazine from June to OctoMr. A. Tilloch. ber, 1 8 i 2. 80 The Critical Review from June to October, I 81 z. The Proprietor. 80 A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No. 148 to z52z 8 The European Magazine from January to Octo. The Editor. ber, i182. -z. A Catalogue of the Archiepiscopal Manuscripts The Archbishop of Canin the Library at Lambeth Palace, with an terbury. Account of the Archiepiscopal Registers and other Records there preserved. fol. Illustrations of the Lotus of An tiquity, by R. R. Duppa, Esq. Duppa, LL.B. London, I81340 (ongl Vetenskaps Academiens nya Handlingar, The Royal Academy of Tom. XXX, XXXI, XXXII, for the Years SciencesofStockholm. 1809, i8io, and i8; i. 80 A Serimron preached before the incorporated SoThe Bishop of C'.rlisle, ciety for the Propa~gation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, Feb. J, i8iz, by Samuel Lord Bishop of Carlisle. London, IiZ. 4_ De l'Operation de la Cataracte, par A. E. Tartra. Mr. A. E. Tartra. Paris, i8;z. +0 Quielques Ie'es nouvelles sur le Systeirte de l'UniMr. G. A. Marechal., v rs, parGuil. Ant.Marechal. Paris, iSio. 8? Mon Opinion sur la Formation des Aerolithes, par Guil. Ant. Marechal. Paris, 1812. 80 9. Abstract of Answers and Returns made pursuant TheSpeaker of theHouse to an Act (j George II.) for taking an Ac-of Commons. count of tPhe Population of Great Britain, and of the Increase and Diminution thereof, I 8 i i. fol. Comparaison des Organes de la Mastication des Mr. MarcelI de SerresOrthopteres, par M Marcel de Serr-s. 4 De I'Odorat et des Organes qui paroissetnt en etre le Siege chez les Orthopteres, par M. Marcel de Serres. 40 Supplement aux Institutions de Physiqu e, par Mr. B. G. Sage. B. G. Sage. Paris, I 8 t2. 8 Flora Lapponica, Auctore Geor. Wahlenberg. Mr. G, Wahlenberg. Berlin, 1812. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No. 153. Dec. io. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and _ _ the Arts' No. 15+. The Philosop'hical Magazine for November, Mr. A. Tilloch. The Critical Review for November. The 1Proprietor. The European Magazine for November. The Editor. 1 307 J 181 Z. PRESENTS. DONOGS. Dec. 17. Sui Mezzi immediate di estirpare la Povertai in Mr. Jos. Emmanuel Or-, Sicilia, per D. Giuseppe Emmanuale Ortolani. tolani. Palermo, i 8 iz. 40 24. Repor's from (he Commissioners of Public ReThe Commissioners of cords, with an Account of their Proceedings Public Records. from I800 to x812. fol. Rotuli Hundredorunm Temp Hien. IIT et Edw. I. In Turr. Lond. et in Curia Recept= Scaccarii Westun. asservati. Vol, 1. fol. Inquisitionum ad Capellam Domini Regis retorDatarurn qux in publicis Archivis Scotia adhuc servantur Abbreviatio. Vol. I. I. fol. A Catalogue of the Hlarleian Manuscripts in the British Museum, with Indexes of Persons, Places, and Matteis. Vol. IV. fol. 1813. Yan 14. The Critical Review, for December, i8iz. The Proprietor. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson, the A-rts. No. 154. The Philosophical Magazine for December, i a. Z Mr. A. Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, No. I. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The European Magazine for December, iSiz. The Editor. aS. Fauna Orcadensis, or the Natural History of the Dr. Win. Elford Leach. Quiadrulpeds, Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes of Orskney and Shetland, by the Rcv. Geo. Low,. &c. Edinburgh, SI3. 4 0 M-dico-Chirurgical 'Tranisactions, published by The Medicat and Chithe Mecical and1 Chirurgical SocietyotLondon. rurgical Society of Vol. III. London, i8iz. 8 London. Transictions of the Society instituted at London Society for the Encoufor the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, ragemre nt ofArts, Maand Commerce. Vol. 30 8s nutactures and Comnmerce. Feb. 4. Physiological Reflections on the destructive OpeThomas Forster, Esq. ration of spirituous and fermented Liquors on the Animal System, by Thomas Forster. London, i8 i. 8S Annals of Philosophy, No. If. Dr. Thomas Thomson, The Critical Revixew for January. The Proprietor. The European Magazine for January. The Editor. The Philosophical DvIagazine for January. Mr. A. rTillchs A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. thc Arts. No 155 and 157. Biblia Sacra ita exacte traslata tlit statim videatur The Abbe Devay. quid refert unaquauque vol% textUs. x . A Voyagge to the South Seas, uLirdertaken by ComrRear Admiral Bligh. mand of His MIjesty for trhPurpose of conveying the Bread Fruit Tree to the West Indies in His Majesty's Ship BounLty, commanded by Lieut. Wm. Bligh. London, I79z. 4Q A Chart for the P'urpose oW exhibiting the Tract _. of His Majesty's Ship Director, itn a Voyage to St. Helena and return to England, by Capt. Wm Bligh, I8oo. i Sheet. MDCCCXIXI,. S s C 308 J 18 13. PRESENTS. DONORS Feb. 25. A Survey of the Bay of Dublin, by Capt. Wm. Rear Admiral Bligh. Bligh, 1803. z Sheets. Chart of the Peninsula and Islands beyond the James Horsburgh, Esq. River Ganges, by James Horsburgh, Esq. x8 13. I Sheet. Mar. An Introduction to Medical Literature, including Dr. Young. a System of practical Nosology, by Thomas Young, M. D. &c. London, 181 S3. o The Critical Review for February. The Proprietor. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No. i58. Annals of Philosophy, No. 3. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Maigazine for February. Mr. A. Tilloch. The European Magazine for February. The Editor. Mar. 1. Appendix to the Doctrine of Life Annuities and Francis Baily, Esq. Assurances, containiing a Paper read before the Royal Society on a n w Method of calculating the Value of Life Annuities, by Francis Baily. London, 1813. 80 dpr. i. An Examination of the Imposture of Ann Moore, Dr. Henderson. called the Fasting Woman of Tutbury, illusstrated by Remarks on other Cases of real and pretended Abstinence, by Alexander Henderson, M.D. London, 1813. 80 Bibliothecx quam vir doctus et admodum reveThe Trustees of Dr. D. rendus Daniel Williams, S. T. P. bono publico Williams's Library. legavit Catalogus. Londini, i8oI. so A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No. 159. Annals of Philosophy, No. 4. Dr. Thomas Thonmson. The Philosophical Magazine for March. Mr. A. Tilloch. The C.ritical v.eview for March. The Proprietor. 8. Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. The Royal Society of Vol. VI, Part H1. Edinburgh, 1809. 40 Edinburgh. 29. An Account of what appeared on opening the Sir Henry Halford, Bart. Coffin of King Charles 1. in the Vault of King Henry VIII. in St. George's Chapel at Windsor, on the lst of April, 1813, by Sir Henry Holford, Bart F. R. S. London, 1813. 40 Bija Ganita, or the Algebra of the Hindus, by Edward Strachey, Esq. Edward Strachey, Esq. Anatomy of the Heeart, Cranium, and Brain, Dr. Alex. Ramsay. adapted to the Purposes of the medical and surgical Practitioner, and 0bservations on the Laws of Life and Sensation, by Alex. 1 aeisay, M. D. 2d Edition. Edinburgh. 1813. 40 A Saries of Plates of the Heart, Craniu-in ainnd Brain, in i-i~vation of Disscctions, by Alt:. xnd, r Ran-ay, M. D. 2d Edition. Edinihnrgh, 813. 40 A + reaatise on new Philosophical Instruments for Dr. David Brewster. va ions Pura's.)scs in the Arts and Sciences, with .ixpe l-:ie-Irs osl Light and Colouts, by David Brewster, LL. D. &c. Edinburgh, 1183. 80 E 309 1 1813. PRESENTS. DONORS. May 6. The European~Magazine for March. The Editor. A Journal of Nattural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No s6 Annals of Philosophy, No. 5. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine for ApriL Mr. A. Tilloch. The Critical .Review for April. The Proprietor. 'rhe Europeati Magazine for April. The Editor. Yo. The Transactions of the Linnean Society of LonThe Linnean Society. lon. Vol. XI. Part I. London, 1813. 40 A short Account of Experiments and Instruments John Leslie, Esq. depending on the Relations of Air to Heat and Moisture, by John Leslie, F. R. S. Ed. Edinburgh, 1813. 50 Reports of the late John Smeaton, F. R. S. made The Society of Civil on various Occasions in the Course of his EmEngineers. ploymnent as a Civil Thiginee'. London, S1I2. 3 Vols. 4 Z7. Travels in Sweden during the Autumn of I8IZ. Dr. Thomas Thomson. by Thomas Thomson, iVIA.D. London, I813. 40 A Treatise on plane and spherical Trigonometry, Robert Woodhouse, Esq. by Robert Woodhouse, A. M. Cambridge, 18E3. 80 June 3. A Topographical Dictionary of Scotland, and Nicholas Carlisle, Esq. the Islands in) the British Seas, &c. by Nicholas Carlisle, Sec. A. S. London, IS13. 2 Vo1S. 40 Notice sur, la Vie et les Travaux de M. Maske. Mrs. Maskelyne. lyne, lue 'a la Seance publique de l'lnstitut National dC France de 4 Janvier, i81S, par M. le Chevalier Delambre, Secretaire perpetuel. Londres, 1813. 40 Tableau m]ethodique des Especes nminerales, seMr. J. A. H., Lucas. conde partie, par J. A. H. Lucas. Paris, I 8o6. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts, No. 160 and i62. Annals of Philosophy. No. 6. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazinie for May. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Critical Review for May. 'The Proprietor. The European Magazine for May. The Editor. 24. A Catalogue of the Library of the London InstiThe /Ilanagers of the tution. London, 1813 8? London InstitLution. j'Tly Ix. A Journal of Natural Phllosophy, Chemistry, and Mr. W. Nicholson. the Arts. No, i63The Philosophical Magazine for June. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Critical Review for June. T'he Proprietor. 8. Theorie analytique des Probabilit-es, par M. le The Count Laplace. Comte Laplace. Paris, 18 I 2. +0 Exposition du Systemire dIs Monde, par M. le Comte Laplace. 4th Edition. Paris, 1813. +4 Experiences sur la Pri-ncipe (le la Vie, notamment Mr. Le Gallois. sur celui des Mouvemens du Caxcur, et sur le Siege de cc Principe, par M. Le Gallois. Paris, -X-SIZ, 80 SS 2 13 3. PRESENTS. DONORS. 3'uty 8. Opuscules de Physique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, Mr. B. G. Sage. 1813. 89 Recherches sur la Chaleur developpe'e dans la Count Runmford. Combustiort, et caris la Condensation des Va. peurs,-par le Comte de Rumford, F. R. S. Paris, 1813. 80 Recherches sur les Bois et le Charbon, par le Comte de Rumford. Paris, 1813. 80 Annals of Philosophy. No. 7. Dr. Thomas Thomson, The Euxopean Magazine for June. The Editor. Melnioire explicatif sur la Sphere Caucasienne, et The Author. specialement sur le Zodiaque, par C. G. S. Paris, 18 13. 40 Le Zouiaque explique, ou Recherches sur l'Ori6 The Author. gine et la Signification des Constellations de la Sphere Grecque, traduit du Suedois. Paris, 1809. 80 Tables Astronomiques publiees par le BTureau des M. Burckhardt, Lonlgitudes de Franlce-et Tables de la Lune par M. Burckhardf Paris, 1813. I N D E X TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1813. A page ACID, liquid fluoric, discovered by SCHEELE, description of it, . ?65 an account of some experiments undertaken to electrize it, 270 Acids, remarks on their influence upon the composition of ti e urine, 213 Alco/oI, remarks on the state in which it exists in fermented liquors, -a 82 Alcohol of sulphur, or Sulphulret of carbon, experiments on it, 171 preparation and general properties of it, 174 ...Iexperiments to ascertain whether hydrogen be present in it, 177 experiments to ascertain the presence of carbon in it, 181 particulars respecting the mode in which the proportions of sulphur and carbon in it are established, 18 8 Ancon, a term applied to a new variety in the breeds of sheep, 93 Ardea Argala, a description of its solvent glands and gizzard, 77 Artery, branchial, observations on its structure 2-4 AUSTIN, REv. GILBERT. On a new construction of a condonser and air pump, 108 Azote and chlorine, a new substance forined by their combination, 2 B BABI NGTON, Dut, His letter to Sir EVERARD HOME on the subject of concretions of olive oil and mucus found in the human intestines, 150 IN i)EX. B'kerian Lecture, o. the elementary particles of certain crystaIs, BERZELIUS, J. M. D. His experiments on the alcohoi of sulphur, or sulph uret of carbon, 171 -n His appendix to a paper oni dhe al cohot of sulphur, or sulphuret of cabon, 1 s Bile, has a ipower of converting animal sibstance into at, 1 BLAGDEN, SIR CHARLES. His ap enDdix to M r. 1VARIP' paper on vision, 110BRAND E., WYILLIAM THo mAs, EsQ His additional re arks on thle state in which alcohol exists in fernevnted liquors 8 2 HHis additionnal observatiorns on the effects of magnsesia in preventing an increased firxnation of uric acid, xvitvi remairks on the influence of acids upon the corpositio1n of the urine, 213 ..........-I His cxperimernts to ascertain whether an adh ixture of bile had any effect upon the process of coivertinog animal substance in-to fat, 154 Bren ford, Middlesex, an account of' sone ortPanic remains found near that Place, 131 BREWSTiR7, DAVID, LL-D. On som-e properties of light 101 C Casowary, loiu Dleged, ornm New Soutd Wales, description of its dv ut I iS o t and gizzard, 79 Cassvgrainian telescope, its li'i'ht compared with that of the r ',,orian, 20 6 Casuaritts Emnu, descrviptin of its solvent glands and gizzard, 78 (Chemicail combingation, obser vations on the atonic d)ctrine of it, 1904 Chlorine cand azote, a new substauice formied by their comubination, 2 Chromcte of lead, on tieb double refraction of it, 105 CLANNY, W JLLIAM i.rID, M. 1). On the riieans of procurinn a steady light i i coal mines witio-ut the danger of explosion, ? 200 Concave glasses, the bad effeects resulting from the use of them d scribed, 33 Coitdenser and air hbumnp, on a new construction of them 33 COTIES'S tiheorem, a remarkable application of it, 8 Cryophorus, description oflan instrumr ent so called, 73 4irystalline lumour, indispensibly necessary to eumle the eye to see at diffrertt distances, 4 44, INDEX. Crystals, on the elementary particles of certain, 1 on the existence of' two dispersive pow rs in all doubly refracting, 107 Cube, origin of its form in crystallograp hy, 59 D DAVY SIp, HumpiRYtl, LL D. On a neW detonating comrpound,1 Some further observations on1 a new detonating substance, 242 His experin nts and obselrvations on the substances produced in different chemical processes on fluor spar, 263 Diamond, on substances which possess a higher refractive power, _ 106 E Elephant, organic remains of that anitrmal found near Brentford. Middlesex, -34 -F Fitt, on its formation in the intestines of living animals, 146 Fluor star, some experiments and observations on the sub. stances produced in different cheical processes on it, 263 Fluoric combinations, the different hyrpotheses which may be formAed on their nature, _ 267 irincizfle, various attempts to procure it in a pure form 275 Fluoric compounds, a peculiar substance exists in them, which it is difficult to examine in a pure for'm, 278 Fluorine, a name given to a peculiar substance existing in fluoric compou.ids, 2 7-8 Freezing at a distaice, on a metllho-cd of, M 7 1 G Gas, silicated fiuoic acd, discovered by SoH.EELE, description of it, 265 --fluo-boric acid, discovered by GAY LuSSAc and THE NAPD, description cf i t L 266 Giards, bronchial, on ttle 11 ack colour ing matter of them, 159 -ga sliic, experiuieits to ascertain the coag ulatingy power of their seciretioun 0 9 G IN DEX. H lIE RI S C E L, J. F. W. EsQ. On a remarkable application of COTES'S thfeorem, 8 Hipfpopiotamus, or~ nic remains of that animal found near Brentfoid, Middlesex, 135 HoM.,E SIpR EvE RARD, BART. His description or the solvent glands and gizzards of the Ardea Argala, the Casuwrius Emu, and ti e long-legged Casowary from New South Wales,, 77 His experiments to ascertain the coagulatirng power of the secretion of the gastric glands, 96 ______ On the tusks of the narwhale, 126 On the formation of fat in the intestines of living animals, 146 His additions to an account of' the anatomy of the Squalus Maximus contained in a fornmer paper; with observations on the structure of' the branchial artery, 227 HooKE, DR. His account of the formation of certain crystals referred to, 55 HIUMPHREYS, COL. )AVJD. On a new variety ini the breeds of sheep, S K KATER, CAPTAIN HENRY. On the light of the Cassegrainian telescope, compared with that of the Gregorian, 206 L Lamnp, description of one to he used in coal mines, .. Lectlue, the Bakerianr on the elementary particles of certain crystals, 5-Light, on somne properties of it, _ 101 Lungs, on the coloUrinw mnatter of the black spots on them, 159 M Magnesia, additional observations on its effects in preventing an increased formation of uric acid, 213 MARCETI, ALEXANDER, M. D). His experiments on1 the alcoh4l of sulphur, or sul )iphret of carbon, 17 His experiments onl the production cf duld by the evaporation of the sulphurct of carbon, J . INDEX. Micrometer, description of one with, a single lens, I 19g Mines, coal, on the mean-s of procuring, a steady light in them without the danger of explosions, 200 _ explosions in, a few of the most considerable in the neighbourhood of Durham recorded, N Narwhale, on the tusks of that animal, JKear sightedness usually commences between the ages of ten. and eighteen, ; 31 affects the higher classes of society more than the lower, M-ii sometimes occasioned by an evident change in the spherical figure of the cornea, seldom a-like in the two eyes, has no dependence on the greater or smaller degree of convexitypossessed by the cornea, 41 not necessarily occasioned by a morbid prow trusionof the whole eye,. ib 01 Observations of some principal fixed stars, results of themn,. _ Ursae linoxis, ib. __P CepheiP 286 _UrsX Major. ib. a Cephei-, ib. cassiop. -2 7 -y Ursve Major. ib Dy Draconis, -08 ) Ursx MIajor. 9 -o Persei,ib, Capella, -_90, Cyg-ni_ 291 Lyre,, ib. Castor, 29 Pollux, ib, j Tauri, ib. Cor, Bor.. ! 293a Arietis, ib. Arcturus, 9 . 294 Aldebaran, ib _3 Leonis, ; MDCCCXIII#.t INDEX. P-age Herculis , 295 -----rPegasi, . Sb. Regolus ' 296 a O phiuchi, 297 X Aquilx, _ 298 Procyon ib. a Orionis, _ 299 aSerpentis, ib. Polarjis, _.300 Octoliedron, the most common form of crystallized bodies, 5 1 Olive oil, coulcretions of it found in tthe huLI Man intestines, 150 P PEARsoN, GEORGE, M. D. On the colouring matter of the black bronctilial glands, and of the black spots of the lrs, 15a 9 POND* JOHN, EsQ. Asuronomer Royal. His observation of ti e sumMer solstice of 1812, at the Royal Observatory, 27 His cat'alolytue of north polar distances or some of thle principal fixed stars, 75 His observatin of thle winter soLs ice of' Io 12, wxith t ie mutal circle at GI reeowich, 123 _Hiis catalofrule of north polar distances of eighty4four ofl tle principal fixed st-trs, deduced fronm obervations made with the mur al circlde At the Royal Observatory, ! 280 Observations of tho s5 lnn mer solstice of 1813, with the miural cirele, at the Royal Observatory, _ 304 PRECITL, 'I. His theory respecting, various crystalline forms referred to, 62 Prisms, IhexaLonal, origin of their form in crystallographiy, 59 R JRhea Anericana, description of its solve'at glands and gizzard, 80 Rhomboid, obtuse, origin of its iborn in crystallography, 57 S 'Sheep, on a new variety in their breed, 88 Si ht, observations retative to the near and distant sight of dif rent persons, S SMITHSON, JAMES, Esq. On va substance from tLhe elm tree called ulmin, so 64 IN:DE.X. SMITHSON, JAMES, Es5Q. On a saline substance ,from Mount Vesuvius, 256 Solstice, sunlmer, observation of ti at of 1812, at the Royal Observatory, 2-7 observation of that of 181,, at thle Royal Ohservatory, 298 winter, observation of that of is8 12, with the mural cicles at ICrenwicb, 123 Spherfe's peijeci, supposedl to be the elementarv partiCles of tl or s1)ar and such other substances as assu ne the oc oiedr?.I and VLtrabedral rorms, 54 Squalus A'Jaxinius, addfitions to an account of its arnatoy coni tamned irn a form(jer paper, -27 Sars, iriici-rdl fixed, catalogue of north polar distanices of sone of them. _ 75 catalogue of north polar distances of eighty four of them, 281 Struthio Carnelus, description of its solvei t glands and trizzard So Sulphurei of cabon, or Alcohol of sulphutr, e'xperin te ts on it, 1 71 experiments to determine the prloportions of sulphur and carbon contained in it, _ 182 comparison of the proportions of sulphur, and carbon in it, witll those which migrht he inferred from the laws of determinate proportions, 189 experiments on its combination with the the alkalies, the earths, and the metallic oxyds, 192 experiments to determine the nature of a particular substance produced by the action of nltro-miuriatic acid upon it, 195 experiments on the production of cold by the evaporation of it, 252 T Tetriaedron and octohedron, relation of these solids to each other in crystallography, 51 TRIMMER, MIR. WILLIAM KIRBY. His account of some orjramic remains found near Brentford, Middlesex, 131 TYOHO L. TycH'oNIUS. His account of a narwhale's skull, published in 1706, -referred to, 127 U Ulmin, on a substance from the elm tree, so called, 64 INDEX. fiage, Ulmin, English, experiments on it, 68 Vesuvius, Mount, on a saline substance from it, 256 Vision, an appendix to Mr. WARE'S paper on that subject, 110 Jfitreous humour, its absorption probably the cause ofamended vision in old persons, -42 W WARE, JAMES, EsQ. His observations relative to the near and distant sight of different persons, Wires, on a method of drawing them extremely fine,114 WOLLASTON, WILL1AM HYDE, M. D. Bakerian lecture, on the elementary particles of certain crystals, 6 _ ______lOn a method of freezing at a distance, 71 Method of drawing extremely fine Wires,. 114 His description of a single lens. micrometer,1 1From tbe Press of W. BUL AVER & Co. Cleveand-rotw, St. 3ames's, Lontdon. 