(597) II. A Journal of a Voyage from England to Constantinople, made in the Year 1668. by T. Smith D. D. & F. R. S. ON Monday Evening August the 3d, 1668. we took Barge at Tower-Wharf, and at Greenwich went on Board the Bezant Yacht for the Downs, where we arrived the next Day in the Afternoon, and went on Board the Leopard Frigat, a Ship of 56 Guns mounted, Captain O Bryen Commander, appointed to carry Sir Daniel Harvey, his Majesty's Ambassador to the Port of the Ottoman Emperor at Constantinople. Here, upon his first Arrival, the Ambassador was Complemented by Sir Jeremy Smith, then riding Admiral, Sir Edward Spragg, and several other Commanders of the Men of War, and afterwards Saluted with Fifteen Pieces of Ordinance by the Admiral, to whom we returned as many; then by the Vice-Admiral, and several other Ships. All which were answered together at the same time with 21 in the whole. Here we were forced to ride for several days, the Winds being contrary. [An Account of the Tides here, taken from this Journal, is already printed N. 154. p. 564. of these Transactions.] August 9. We sailed from the Downs, but were soon forced back by distress of Weather, and came to an Anchor S. W. of the South Foreland. 10. The Wind blew at S. S. W. and the Sea run very high, so that we were in danger of losing our Cable V v v v and (598) and Anchor; the Ground, where we rode, at 16 Fathom 1/2 water, being somewhat gruff. 15. The Wind coming about at W. N W. we sailed, and were Saluted with Nine Guns from Dover Castle, and Seven from one Fort, and Five from another. We carried a Flag upon our Main-top, after we came out of the Downs. The Wind in the Afternoon at N.E. brought us by Seven of the Clock to the Ness, where we lay at Anchor during the Tide of Flood: during which time the Mariners caught good store of Whitings, baiting their Hooks with raw Mutton. 16. We were in the Morning athwart St. Helen's Point in the Isle of Wight; where we discovered Sir Thomas Allen with his Squadron under sail, bound for the Straits. 17. In the Morning we got to the West of Portland, the Wind at N. by E. our Course lying thereupon S. S. W. but about Noon, sailing over part of the Race of Portland, where we met with a tumbling Sea, we Anchored at the N.W. part in the Bay, over against the Point that looks towards Weymouth. We were ashore in the Island,which seems to be but one continued Rock; the Soil in several places not being above five or six Inches deep, as I found by digging a hole with my Knife: yet the Corn flourishing enough. The Castle consists of a double Fortification; we could not observe above five Guns mounted. They told us, that in the Island there was but one Church, and four Villages. We weighed at twelve of the Clock at Night: But 18. The Wind blowing fiercely at W. directly in our teeth, we made but little way, and could not weather the Start Point that Night. The Moon upon its first emerging above the Horizon, seemed to have a colour like burnt Brick, the Sky very cloudy: but some Rain falling, as she advanced higher and higher, she appeared more and more fiery. 19. We (599) 19. We weathered the Start Point by Noon, but could not make much way beyond it. 20. We got into Plymouth Sound. The Cittadel, built upon a Rock, with large Counterscarps and Bastions, returned our Salute with nine Guns. Sir Thomas Allen with his Fleet stood to the Lizard, and came not to an Anchor. 21. Misty weather. About eleven Clock Forenoon, and about six in the Evening, we observed the Vapours in great quantity ascend out of the Sea, soon covering the tops of the Mountains. Here we staid three days, taking in some Provisions, ready prepared for us. On Sunday the 23th of August we weighed out of Plymouth Sound, and made the Lizard, a Promontory in Cornwall, before Night: the Manacles, several Rocks so called, we discerned very distinctly,it being then low Ebb; as also the Lands end. The Wind blew fresh; and we observed the Waves in the Night time, as if they had been liquid fire, but palish. The Lizard bearing N. of us,we changed our Course, and taking leave of England, we sailed into the Ocean. God of his Mercy send us a happy Voyage. 24. We run this day thirty nine Leagues by a Compute from our Log-line. 25. We were full open with the Bay of Biscay. Several Gulls were hovering over the Surface of the Water to catch Fish, which swam by in vast sholes, at above fifty Leagues distance from any Land. At other times I have seen several Birds floating upon the Water, which being driven by some Tempest from the Coasts of Spain and Portugal, have been tired in their flight, and so drowned. This happens frequently in the great Ocean, where they meet with no Land to fly to in several hundreds of Leagues: and sometimes even in the Mediterranean, in the Mid-Seas V v v v 2 between (600) between the Christian and Barbary shores. In blowing weather, among other Birds flying cross, we saw a Hawk making to our Ship, then under good and swift Sail, which perched upon the round top of the Mainmast; which one of the Seamen espying, he presently run up the Shrouds, and brought down the Hawk, which made no attempt to fly away, being quite spent. But not long after, the Hawk recovering his spirits by rest and meat which was given him, took wing and got away from the Fellow, notwithstanding all the care he took to secure his new Adventure, which he hoped to have made Money of at the next Port that we should come to. 26. A strong Levant still blowing, and the Sea very rough and boisterous, the Gale continuing almost right a Stern, we run these 24 hours above 70 Leagues. 27. We found our selves by our observations, that we were in the Latitude of 42 degrees 17 minutes, and began to be very sensible of our nearer approach to the South, the weather being excessive hot. In the Afternoon we heard the report of several Guns fired at about seven or eight Leagues distance, as we guessed. At eight of the Clock at Night another Gun was fired somewhat near us, which we thought might be from an Algerine Man of War, who gave a signal to his Consorts, and who answered by several flashes of Powder. Whereupon our Trumpeters sounded a Point of War, but no return was made. However, the Captain quartered his Men, and the Decks were cleared, and all things made ready in order to a fight the next Morning; as soon as day appeared, we saw the Sea clear, no Ships being in view any way: so that we concluded that they were Merchant Ships, with their Convoy, standing to the Northward. 28.Dread(601) 28. Dreadful Lightnings in the Clouds towards the Evening; after which great Dews fell: the weather extream hot. 29. We saw a Pilot fish swim by the sides of the Ship, and several Bonito's and Albicores playing, as it were, with their Heads above water. The Wind took us short in the Night, and soon after there was a stark Calm; and we had great reason to bless God for it: For had we continued our Course that Night, we had either run a ground, or had been cast upon the Rocks near to Peniche in Portugal. The fault was mis-reckoning, and haling in too soon to make the Southern Cape: though the Seamen, to salve their Credit, and to excuse their Error, which had like to have proved so fatal to us, pretended that we were set in by a strong Current. God make us thankful for this great Deliverance. 30. This Morning we were surprised to see our selves within four or five Leagues of the shore, when we had thought that we had been above twenty. In the Afternoon, the Wind coming on fresh, we weathered the westermost Isle of the Barlings. On the greatest of which,being, as we guessed, above half a Mile in length, the Portuguese have built a Fort to hinder the Barbary Pirates from careening their Ships there, or taking in fresh water. The Land of it very high, and bore off us S. E. by E. By it lye several Rocks. The other Islands are distant about a League. I told five of them: the greatest of which last lye somewhere inward to the shore. For two Nights together about this time (28 and 29) the Sky being very hazy, the Sun set in a colour as deep as blood, which was very astonishing. We were then in the Latitude of 40. 31. Be(602) 31. Betimes in the Morning we sailed by the Rock of Lisbon, at some distance, which was scarce discernible by reason of the cloudiness of the Weather. Two Turks Men of War are now plying to the Windward of us; but dare not come up to speak with us, perceiving that we are only laden with Powder and Bullet. September 1. In the Morning we made Cape St. Vincent. I went on shore with the Lieutenant and several others in our Pinnace, which we drove into one of the Coves; and were forced to climb up a Rock, the ascent of which was very dangerous and troublesome; and made more so by the Rays of the Sun, which were reflected with that vehemence, that the Heat was almost intollerable. Having gained the top, we were met by an Officer and some Soldiers, who had us into the Castle, the middlemost of the three, which are built along that Promontory for the Security of the Coasts, and entertained us with Wine, Grapes, and Marmalade. They told us, that a Squadron of English Men of War sailed by the Day before. We here met with two Vessels belonging to Dartmouth, laden with Fish from Newfound land, bound for Allicant. All along the Coasts, at the distance of about two or three Leagues, are several Watch-towers built to give notice of Pyrates. Becalmed for the most part these two or three days. 5. In the Morning we weathered the Point of Cadiz, and came to an Anchor in the Bay of Bulls, about half a League from the great Porgoe; and in the Afternoon went on shore. We were entertained by the English Consul, and carried by him to view the Fortifications, which are esteemed to be as regular as any in Christendom; built in the same place where the Town had been attacked formerly by the English, under the Conduct of the Earl of Essex in the Reign of Q. Elizabeth. Plays are usually here, as in other parts of Spain, acted on a Sunday. (603) Sunday. During the time of our stay, was represented the History of the Patience of Job, the Devil brought upon the Stage, tempting Job's Wife in a drolling way, which caused great Laughter and Merriment among the Spectators. At Malaga, as the Merchants told among, the Sunday before we arrived there, was acted the Schism of England in the time of King Henry the Eighth, whom the Spaniards will not yet forgive, for Divorcing himself from Q.Catherine, their Country-woman. 9. We sailed from Cadiz. 10. This Afternoon we were forced to Anchor, not far from Cape Spartel or Sprat, as the Seamen call it, not being able to weather the Point. 11. This day we came to an Anchor in Tangier-Bay, with Sir Thomas Allen's Squadron. Tangier lyes within the Entrance into the Strait of the Mediterranean, in the Latitude of about 35~, 36~. It is situated in the bottom of a Bay, and is built on the side of the Hill, overlooking the Sea, encompassed with high Walls to the Land-ward, and commanded by a strong Castle. The Heats would be very troublesome but for the Sea-breezes which cool and fan the Air. In the Castle I met with a Roman Monument, erected to the Honour of P. Belius, a great Officer and Souldier in Trajan's time; who, among his other Titles, is there stiled, P P O. F I G. M A U R I T A N I A E T I N G I T AN A E: which since has been taken away, and presented to the University of Oxon by Sir Hugh Cholmondley, and now serves to adorn the Area about the Theatre. The English have two Churches here, (though they only make use of one, the other being reserved against all Accidents) both of them very neat and convenient; though not to be compared with the Church of the Portuguese, retained still, according to the Articles of Agreement, when the King of Portugal made over the Right (604) Right and Title, and gave the Possession of Tangier to the Crown of England, by the Canons Regulars, belonging to it, which is very stately, and adorned with rich Images, and supported by Marble Pillars. Toward one end of the English Church, just by the Vestiary, which had been formerly a Turkish Mosch, and afterward the Chappel of a Convent of Dominicans, is a Monumental Stone-Table in Arabick Characters, containing an account of the Houses, Lands, and other Revenues belonging to it, set up in the 743 year of the Hegira, that is, of Christ 1341. The Mole is in good forwardness, they having gained above 200 yards in the Sea, in order to the making of a good and safe Harbour for Ships to ride in, which lye open to Wind and Waves; the outward side to the Sea-ward somewhat sloping. The Garrison is in so good a posture of Defence, that they defie Taffiletta and all his Forces. Here we met with great Civilities from Colonel Norwood, Deputy.Gouernour, and the Gentlemen belonging to the Garrison. Sir Harry Mildmay and Mr. Goodland, two of King Charles the First his Judges, are here; but who have the Liberty of the Town. Now, at our being here, come in several Moors from Arzilla, and among the rest, the Father of one of Gayland's Wives, to get a Passage for Algiers. Old Tangier lyes at some little distance,where they sind very frequently in digging several pieces of Roman Coin. But for the above-mentioned, and the other Curiosities and Antiquities of Tangier, of which I forbear to make mention, from the imperfect and hasty Observations of two days, the greatest part of which being taken up by the Entertainment of our obliging Country-men,you may consult with great pleasure and satisfaction, a little Book called The present State of Tangier. written by a very ingenous Gentleman, and printed in the Year 1676. [An (605) [An Account of a supposed Current into and out of the Mediterranean,taken from this Journal, is printed N. 158. p. 164. of these Transactions.] 13. We weighed out of Tangier and turned into the Strait, though against the Wind. The distance between Gibraltar Cape, which gives name to the Straits, and is joyned to the Continent of Spain and Seuta a well-built and strongly fortified Town, lying under the Hill Alybe, called so by the Greeks, which the Seamen commonly call, as do some Spanish Writers, Apes-hill, from the great number of Apes which used formerly to haunt there, (at which places Hercules is feigned to have set up his Pillars) may be about six Leagues: though both Lands lying very high (for we saw the Clouds much below them) it does not appear in the middle of the Current, out of a tall Ship, scarce half so broad. 14. Little Wind stirring. 15. A great Mist all the Sea over, so that we could scarce see three lengths of the Ship, which began to vanish in the Afternoon; and then we descryed the Cape of Malaga at about four Leagues distance; and came to an Anchor that Night. The City lyes under a high Hill, and is the Seat of a Bishop, who is at this time a Natural Son of King Philip the Fourth, of the Order of St. Dominic. Here the Merchants told us, that it had not rained for seven Months together, except a day or two for an hour: and that the Algerines, who were then breaking with us, had not been able to have set a Fleet to Sea about two years before, if they had not been furnished with Masts from England; and that they were now in expectation of another Ship laden with the same, notwithstanding the Rupture, which was as good as began. I only make a query, Whether Jews or English Men were the Fraighters. X x x x 16. The (606) 16. The next Morning the Governour immediately returned our Salute Gun for Gun: soon after we weighed from Malaga Road, the Weather very hot. Some Rain fell at Night, though very moderately. In the Evening, after we had sailed about eighteen Leagues, we were becalmed. The Sea being quiet, we saw a great number of Tortoises swimming above Water, several Bottle-noses, fish of about three yards long, and very thick, and Hawks flying over to the Barbary Coast. The Hills of Granada were seen plainly by us, though at a great distance. The Wind coming Easterly, we keept at Sea, beating and plying to and again for these four days, scarce gaining sixteen Leagues of our way, and were forced to come to an Anchor in the Bay of Adera, where there is a strong Cittadel, about thirty four or thirty five Leagues from Malaga. 21. We passed by Cape de Gata: but the Levant wind still blowing, having continued almost in that Point for above two Months, as we computed from what they had told us at Tangier, we could make but little progress in our Voyage. 25.Between three and four of the Clock in the Morning the Tornado's began to blow, and the Wind violent for the time, with such continued Flashes of Lightning for several hours, as that the whole sky seemed to be on fire, intermixed with terrible Claps of Thunder, after which followed great showers of Rain. 26. The Wind still contrary, we descyed Cape St.Martin at about fifteen Leagues distance. Tacking about and standing off to Seaward, next Morning 27. we found that we had lost about three Leagues of our way. 28. We were athwart Orlando's Gap within two Leagues of the Shore, Cape St. Martin bearing off us N. by W. The Wind now still; but a swelling Sea coming (607) coming from the Westward: which is usual before a Wind, which drives the Water before it. On Michaelmas-day we were up with the Ifland Ivica or Ivise, as the Mariners call it, and the Wind blowing fair, we stood our Course; and the next day at Noon we made the Island Majorca, situate over against the Kingdom of Valentia, and came to an Anchor in the Bay of the City, being forced in hither for want of fresh Water. In the Afternoon the Boat was sent on shore; but the Vice-Roy would not give us Prattick, not bringing a Patent from Malaga. Octob. 1. The Secretary was sent with the King's Pass to the Vice-Roy to demand Prattick, who presently summoned the Officers of the Sanita. After long Debates and Delays they consented, and came to the Mole to receive him. He went directly to the Governour to acquaint him, that we were ready to Salute the City with what number of Guns he pleased, if he would engage upon his Honour to give us as many. He replyed, that he would give us three for five; and wondered, that we being but a single Ship, should make such a Demand. The Secretary told him, That we were to be treated as an Admiral, having a Flag on our Maintop; and that the Governour of Malaga had done it. To this he said, That Majorca was a Kingdom, that he was the King's Representative, and that by reason of the Miscarriage of his Predecessor, when Monsieur de Beaufort, the French Admiral, was there, he had received strict Orders from Madrid not to do the like. The Secretary replyed, That we had an Ambassador on board, and had as strict Orders, and should answer as severely for the Breach of them. His last Answer was, That we might, with our Sails loose, keep before the Town, till we had furnished our selves with what we wanted. Upon receiving this Message, the Ambassador dispatched away one Joseph X x x x 2 Gabriel (608) Gabriel-Cortez, a Spaniard, but employed by the English Merchants trading to that Island, then on board our Ship, to acquaint him, That when we were ready to go away, we would loose our Sails, and not before. We landed within the Mole; the Walk upon it about four or five yards broad; at the Extremity of which is a very large and stately Gate, which leads into the CityWe went into the great Church, somewhat wider than Westminster-Abbey, but darkish within: the Portal very magnificent, adorned with several Marble Statues in Niches one over another. The High Altar very plain and unadorned: but others extraordinary rich and glorious. Not far from the City are several Mills to grind their Olives, Oyl being the great Commodity of the Island. 2. The next Morning we weighed, without taking any kind of notice of the Town, sailing all along in sight of the Island, which presented us with a pleasing and delightful Prospect; the Valleys, lying under the Hills, fruitful of Wine and Corn. The whole Island is judged to be about sixty Leagues in Compass, and in length about fifteen: which we sailed from the Westermost Point, where lyes the Isle Dragovera, at a very little distance to the Eastermost, where there is built a small Fort. To the S. S. E. lye several little Islands, called the Cabreras; between which and Majorca we steered. 3. We were athwart Port Maon in Minorca; a fine level Country, having but one Hill in it N. W. by W. as it bore off us. In the Evening the Wind very scant. 4. This day, as yesterday, excessive hot. 5. In the Afternoon we descryed the Main Land of Provence. 6. We (609) 6. We were over-against the Islands Hieres, and the Highland of Thoulon. 7, 8. These two days becalmed; and the Sea extraordinary smooth. 9. We were over-against the Westermost part of the Alpes, which we distinctly saw at about twenty Leagues distance, and appeared far higher than the Hills of Granada. 10. We sailed by Final and Ventimiglia. 12. We came in the Morning to an Anchor overagainst the Mole, and not far from the Lantern in Genua. Having obtained Prattick of the Maestri della Sanita, after a little demur about the Salute, the Senate being assembled, and some of them protesting upon their Honours, and ready to produce their Registers, that they never saluted the Ship wherein was an Ambassador of France or Spain, as not taking any notice of the Person, who did bear that Character, till they had first intimation, that the Ship was arrived in their Port by its saluting the Town. It was agreed that the Ship should Salute the Town with eleven Guns, which they were to answer, as they did, with an equal number: and after a little pause, they saluted the Ambassador with nineteen more, which was answered with as many. After this, the Duke and Senate sent the Master of the Ceremonies to wait upon the Ambassador: who going away, returned soon after with a Present of Calves, Fowl, Wine, Sweetmeats, &c. and acquainted his Lordship, that they had deputed six of their Gentlemen to Complement him, and wait upon him; which Civility he thought fit to refuse, desiring to be incognito. But however, going ashore, he was welcomed by the illustrissimi Signori, the Durazzo's, two Brothers, the elder of which had been Ambassador for the Republick, in the Court of England, and the other at Constantinople, and by them carried (610) ried to see the Villas out of Town. The figure of Genua is Semicircular, beginning from the Lantern Westward, lying under an high Hill, upon the rising of which the several Houses, built of Marble, afford a very fine Prospect, and add much to the Beauty and Glory of the place. Strada nuova perchance is the most stately Street in the whole World. The new Church of the Anunciata, built by the Lomellini, where a thousand may go up the stairs abreast at the same time, for curious Painting, rich Altars, and exactness of Architecture incomparable. The Duome also and the Church of the Theatins very stately and curious. Other matters I purposely omit. 14. In the Evening we set Sail from Genua. Becalmed for the most part these three days, though helped somewhat forward by the Briezes that blew off the shore after Sun-set. 18. In the Afternoon we made the Island Gorgonia, about nine Leagues from Livorne; a little round Island, with a Castle on the top. 19. In the Morning we came to an Anchor in Livorne Road, about a Mile from the Town: the Road large and secure, especially to the Northward. The Ambassador keeps on Board, the Governor refusing to Salute the Ship first, though he had formerly saluted the French; pretending that every Convoy might carry a Flag; and alledging that his Master, the Grand Duke, was as great and absolute, as the Republick of Genua: and that they had rather throw themselves upon the King of England, than do a thing which might prove of such an ill Consequence. Sir John Finch, his Majesty's Resident, together with Sir Thomas Baines, came from Florence to Complement the Ambassador, and immediately dispatched away a Courier to the Grand Duke about the Salute; who referred the whole Affair to the Governor: and he making (611) making a Protest that he was ready to pay all the Respect which was due to the Ambassador's Character and Quality, upon the fore-mentioned Pretensions, six days after our arrival, absolutely refused to Salute the Ship first. Livorne is the great Magazine of Trade for the Levant, being a free Port: Merchants of all Countries residing here, Armenians especially, and Jews; which latter enjoy great Priviledges, without wearing any distinct Mark in their Hats or Habits, whereby they may be known. They are allowed the publick Exercise of their Religion: their Synagogue large and handsome. The Port inward has a Mole for the Dukes Galleys and other small Vessels to ride in: the Entrance of which is chained up every Night. Hard by is the Statue of Duke Ferdinand in Marble, raised upon an high Pedestal; under which are four Slaves in brass, in different Postures, very large, and above the ordinary proportion, but done with exquisite and admirable Art. Two Castles to the Seaward well fortified: the Town Walls very high, and the four Gates strongly guarded: below which is a Ditch of about fifteen or twenty yards over, and very deep. No Stranger is allowed to view the Works, nor Souldier permitted to come out of the Castles. About four thousand Slaves are there, as the Merchants told us, who are lockt up in the Bagno every Night. The Piazza, where the Merchants meet,is adorned with MarblePillars, which sustain the Portico's: at the East end of which is the great Church, whose Roof appears very glorious, having several Circles richly gilded and painted with curious Figures. The broadStreet is paved between two and three yards on each side with Free-stone. 27. In (612) 27. In the Afternoon we weighed out of Livorne Road, and failed by the Islands Gorgonia and Capraria, seeing Corsica at a distance. 28. We lay beating at Sea all this day, the Wind being contrary. 29. This day we were forced back,the contray Winds still continuing. 30. We weighed a second time, and sailed by three small Islands, Capraria, Planasia, and Monte Christi. We saw also Gigio and Sanuti, two other small Islands near the Main: but we made but little way, by reason of ill Weather for four or five days. Novemb. 5. At Evening we saw the Eruptions of fire from Stromboli,which lies to the NW.of Sicily.Sometimes it flamed very bright light as a Beacon, at other times there appeared only a glorious kind of Light, like that of an ordinary Star when the Air is thick and hazy. They say that it flames most in rainy Weather. 6. In the Morning we were up within a League of it, and plainly perceived it to smoke. It is of a round figure, and, as we gathered, may be about three or four Miles in compass. It bore W. by S. of us. Not far from it lye scattered several other Islands, called by the Ancients AEoliae and Vulcaniae: among which are Lipara, a long flattish Island, and Vulcanello, which smokes most. This Afternoon we came to an Anchor in eight Fathom Water in the Phare of Messina, in the mid Stream between Scylla and Charybdis: a violent and strong Current setting against us, and the Wind not high enough, so as to be able to stemm it. The breadth of the Strait from Messina to Rhegium may be about a League. The Land is very high on the Calabrian side, where are very steep Rocks, and great depth of Water, above 150 Fathom, as they told us: but on the Sicilian side, near Charybdis Shole-water,and usually an Eddy. On the Sandy Banks stands (613) stands the Phare or Watch-tower. Several Currents meeting in this narrow passage, cause a great ripling of the Water: and great quantity of Water coming in, as the Winds drive, in great quantity, meeting with the shole, is broken into Waves. The Eddies here are caused by the meeting of the different Currents by which the Waters are sometimes carried N. and sometimes S. the great danger is,lest they drive the Ship on either side. We have had Lightning for seven or eight Nights together. 7. We sailed by AEtna,now called Mongibel, where the Sea widens ten or eleven Leagues over. Now we see plainly the smoke briskly issuing out of the Crater, the Limbus of which was all black. The uppermost part of the Mountain was covered with Snow, except some streaks of Ashes, as we judge, which lye as it were in a Gutter, spread here and there. 8. We espied a Saettia at about 3 Leagues distance,and making up to her,found her forsaken.The Captain sent several Seamen on board, and carried the Vessel to Smyrna. Scanty Wind for several days: and the Lightning still continued. 13. We were up with Cape Modona, the Southermost Cape of the Morea, and sailed by Coron. The Land very high, the Hills of Arcadia lying Eastward from us. The Weather excessive hot at this time, as it is in England at Midsummer. We espied from our Maintop-mast five Sail of great Ships, which we supposed to be Tripolines, who did not think fit to come up and speak with us. But afterward we heard for certain, that they were part of the Venetian Fleet. 14. We lay for the most part becalmed over-against Cape Matapan: but in the Evening the Wind blowing fresh, we sailed between the Island of Cerigo and the Main Land of Greece; it being about three Leagues over to Cape Angelo. Y y y y 15. We (614) 15. We entred the Arches, and steered through the North Channel, leaving Melo and Antimelo on the Starboard quarter, at some Leagues distance. 16. Betimes in the Morning we were athwart Negropont, and sailed between it and Andros. The Bocca lyes S. W. and N. E. 17. We sailed by Chios or Scio, which is very mountainous toward the middle. It is about four Leagues distant from Cape Caraboroun, or the Cape of the black Nose, as the Turkish Word signifies, which the Seamen, in their usual way of corrupting Names, call Cape Jobbernoule, the Corinaeum of the Ancients, a Promontory of the famous Mountain Mimas, which runs along the Southern side of the Bay of Smyrna. This day the Smyrna Fleet from England comes up to us very luckily, to our great Satisfaction and Joy. 18. We are now got into the Bay of Smyrna,and come to an Anchor without the Castle,not far from St. Jacomos Point,as the Seamen call it, or rather Sangiac Point. In the Afternoon the Consul, with several Gentlemen of the Factory, came to wait upon my Lord Ambassador, and desired his Lordship to defer his Entrance into Smyrna till the 20th, that he might be received with greater honour. That Evening we heard a great howling of Jackalls upon the Hills. 20. The Consul with the Nation, accompanied with his Druggermen and Janizaries in their Habit, together with several French, Dutch and Geneose Merchants, residing in that famous Emporium, came to the Village near the Castle, who there expected us with Horses. Upon our going ashore, the Leopard fired 51 Guns. We made about 140 Horse; and immediately upon our setting forth,we rode for about 3 Miles together under the Hill to the S.W.of Smyrna; the places adjoyning set thick with Olive, Fig, and Almond trees. Afterwards we clambered over some rocky (615) rocky Ascents; but the Horses of the Country being sure footed, we were in no danger of falling. Some little way we were forced to ride on the Sea-shore, and soon after came to the Jews burying place, whose Monuments lye flat upon the ground. As soon as we entred into the City, we found the Streets full of Greeks, Armenians, Turks and Jews, whom Curiosity had drawn together to see and observe our Cavalcade; the English Ships, which were in the Bay, firing their Guns,as we past near the shore. And so after three hours riding the Ambassador was brought to the Consul's House, where Lodgings were provided for him. During our stay we met with not only kind, but very noble Entertainment from the worthy Gentlemen of the Factory. Decemb. 8. We took our leave of Smyrna, being accompanied by the Consul and Merchants on board the London Merchant, Capt. John Hill Commander, the Leopard being ordered to go no further than Smyrna, it being feared in England, that if she had sailed up to Constantinople, the Turks might have prest her for their Service in Candia, which they were then besieging. 9. This Morning we weighed betimes, and sailed between Scio and Mitylene. But on the 10. We were forced back near the long Island within the Bay, being unwilling to go to Scio, the Tripolines and Turkish Galleys lying there. Here we lay ten days, expecting a fair Wind. 20. The Wind coming about and favouring us, we sailed a second time between Scio and Mitylene. 21. We past by Lemnos, and were up with the Island Tenedos; a fine Champaign Country,only with one Hill toward the middle of it. The Castle to the N.E. part of the Isle: over-against which lye three small Islands in a strait Line. Here we came to an Anchor. We saw the Ruins of Troas at a distance, but did not think it safe to go ashore. Y y y y 2 22. The (661) 22. The Wind coming about at S. we entred the Hellespont, which may be about two Leagues and a half over. The Castles built upon the opposite points of Land, about 11 or 12 years before, after the great Defeat given the Turkish Armata at the Dardanels by the Venetians; Cape Janizary on the Asian side; which, with the Philaeum, makes a tolerable good Bay for ordinary Vessels. The narrowest Strait of the Hellespont is at the two other Castles, distant about six Leagues, where it may be about 3/4 of a Mile wide. These the Christians call the Dardanelli; at which are situate the Towns,Sestus and Abydus, famous in Greek Poesie. These Castles we saluted with our Guns and Trumpets, as we did the first: but each, whether out of Pride,or out of Covetousness, to save the Grand Signors Powder, return'd us no more than 2 Guns. The Wind blowing very fair, we sailed into the Propontis. 23. We passed by St. Stephanos Point, where we had a full view of the S. E. Angle of Constantinople, which being situated upon several Hills to a mighty advantage, what with the Cypress-Trees intermixed, and what with the gilded Spires of the Moschs, yielded us a very diverting and glorious Prospect. Passing by the Seraglio Point, which we saluted by a discharge of several Guns,in the mid Stream between it and the Tophana, we came to an Anchor. 26. On St. Stephen's day the Ambassador landed at Galata, (having before been visited by the Earl of Winchelsea, and the Merchants residing there) and was received there by the Chiaus Basha and the Vaivod of Galata, the Janizaries and Chiauses attending, and was waited upon by them to his Palace: and soon after the Kaimacam, or Governor of Constantinople, sent an Officer to Complement him upon his Arrival; the Grand Signior being then at Larissa in Thessaly. January 2. The Ambassadors, old and new, went over to Constantinople, that Morning being assigned by the Kai(617) Kaimacam to give them Audience; the Chiaus Basha and other Officers attending at the Water-side to receive them; Horses being brought thither for them and their Followers to mount. This Kaimakam Jusuph, a little old Man, had formerly been a Page of the Chamber,and chief Falconer, and afterwards Basha of Silistria. He entertained the Ambassadors and their Company with Perfumes, Coffee, and Sherbet, and distributed about fifteen Koftans Orrests among them: after about an hours stay they took their leave. Being upon the Coasts of Greece about August or September 69. in the Latitude of 35~. 53~. we found by our Azimouth Compass, that we had Westerly variation there 5~. 22~. The variety of Colours of the Sea-water at several times chiefly depends upon the Wind and Weather, and the reflexion of the Light upon it. It's usual and most natural Colour is a deep Green: but in cloudy and Rainy Weather, the Surface of the Water appears blackish. On the Goodwins upon the Tide of Flood, the Water was white, the Waves by reason of the Shallows, meeting with opposition, and breaking into Foam, till the Flood is well advanced..Sometimes the Water is of a perfect Azure colour, as we observed for several Weeks in the Mediteranean. The Sun shining bright upon the Water, sometimes the upper part of the Wave appears purplish, sometimes reddish; though in Shallows perchance it may receive this latter Tincture also from the Sands which lye under it. When the Wind has freshned, and the Ship has been under full Sail, I have observed the Waves to the head, and at the sides of the Ship, to appear with a pale kind of brightness: and at Malaga, at my return, going on board our Ship, which lay about half a League from the shore,at Night,the Wind then at East, the Boats Crew letting their Oar fall roughly into the Water, diverted us as (618) as it were with the sight of a continued Flame, raised by their rowing; which I ascribe rather to the Saline Particles of the Sea-water,which were then put into a violent Agitation,than to the Spawn of Fish,as some of our Company imagined. Sailing toward the west of Portland, we saw several Porpisces playing with their heads above Water; which I mention only, because the Seamen look upon them as forerunners of a Storm; the Wind soon after blowing very hard at N. by E. And afterwards arriving at Constantinople, the Wind blowing a stiff Gale at North, I observed with a pleasing kind of astonishment good part of the Propontis, that is, from the Seraglio Point toward the Islands, which lye against the Bay of Nicomedia, Eastward and South-East from us, as far as we could see, covered as it were with Porpisces, which appeared every where in great abundance. So that I am very apt to believe that Julius Solinus in Chap. 12. of his Polykistor is to be understood of Porpisces, and not of Dolphins, now properly so called, though that be his word, speaking of the Bosphorus and Propontis: Haec profunda Delphinas plurimos habent: and soon after, ante omnia nihil velocius habent maria, sic ut plerunque transvolent vela navium. I could not hear that any Dolphins are caught in those Seas by the Greeks, whose poverty,added to the love which their Nation has for fish, and the advantage arising thence,upon the account of their solemn Fasts and Abstinences from all flesh, even to a wonderful strictness and scrupulosity, has made them excellent Fishermen: nor did I ever see any in their Fish-markets, or see one of them brought to the Ambassador's Table by the Proveditore for curiosity: though otherwise it is, an excellently well tasted fish, especially when soused. I allow, that they will swim very swistly, as do the Porpisces; and that they will follow a Ship for several Leagues together: but then they swim (619) swim somewhat deep in the Water,sometimes are catch'd, though not often. The Seamen have reached them with a Fisgig, a kind of barbed Iron, at the end of a Pole tyed fast to a Rope, and have made good chear with them. But this is only my Conjecture, with which I end my Journal. Deo Servatori Laus. III. 