lII. Sonte Facts relvtive to th-e latf Mr. John Huntersprepa rdti3n for tbeC:roonian Lecture. By Everard Home, Esq. F R.SX Read l9ovember 14, 179g. Mx. HUNTER having announced to the Royal Society that he-would make the structure of tlle crystalline humour of the eye the subject of the CROONIAN lecture for the present year and havin$, unfortunately for science, died before his observations -on that subject were renelered complete,I feel it a duty I owe to his memory,-as well as to the Society, to state the facts respectirlg this humour with which he had acquainted me X and shall suoirl an unfinished letter from Mr. HUNTER tQ Sir JO-SEPH BANKS on the same subject. It 1S now many years that Mr. HUNTER has had an ideas that tlle crystalline humour was enabled by its owrl internal actions to adjust itself,-so as to adapt the eye to diSerent distances C and: wher>-the Tmnia hydatigena first came under his observation as a living animal, he-was surprised to see the quantity of cQzltraction that took place irl a membrane devoid of muscularfibres, but made use of the fact in his investigation of thestructure Of the crystalline haxnour of the eye. Some time after this, having occasion to dissect the eJ7e of -the cuttle-fish,, which lle Ilad frequently done before but not with exactly the same viesv, he -discovered in lhe crystalline 07n the late Mr. HUNTER}S preparatioghumour a structure vvhich corresponded svith the idea he had formed of its actions in tlle human eye. He found it composed of lamin) whose afppearallce was evidently fibro-us for some depth frotn the extertlal surice; but becoming less and less distinct) till at last this fibrous appearance was entirely lost and-the midEllen or cerltral part of the humour, was compact and transparenta witllout any vislble laulinaei From this structure it would appear) that in the eye of the cuttle-fish the ex-terior parts of t:he laumour are fibrous the interior parts not a so that the central part is a nucleas round vhich the fibrous coverilngs are placed. Tlle preparations vvhich dernonstraAte these facts will be laid beforFe the Society. As the structure of the crystalline humour in the cuttlefish differs in nothing frotn that of the same htlmour in ot;her animaISn bUt in the distinCtneSS Of the fibrOUS appearancef Mr HUNTER was led to consider that the exterior part in all of them was similar, a1thOUgh no appearance of fibres could be ?) demonstrated. What I llave here expiained, I was acquainted with at the time I had the honour of giving tlae CROONIAN lectureS in . . which I examined thef diiretzt svrllctures endowed with muscular action ;antl was desi-rous that lSzfr. HUNTER -would . . either of himselfn or through rne? communicate these observao tions to the Society; but this he declined doing till he had ascertained, by experimenta whether any nluscular eiect was really producAedi; and the hope of being assisted by Mr. RAMSDEN made him from timet to txme put oW making his experiments. Inj the course of this season he began his experiments, which were founded upon the analogy that ought to existbetweerl for the CROONIAN Lectgre. . .23tHis humour, if rnuscular and others of a similar structurej which led him to expect that they would be acted upon by the same stimuli : and having found that a certain degree of heat, applied tllrough the medium of mrater, will excite muscular action, after almost every offier stimulus had failed, it was proposed to apply this to the crystalline humourn and ascertain its effects. The crystalline humour taken from animals recently killed, must be considerecl as being still alive. Such hutnours were to tbe immersed in water of different temperatures, and placed in such a manner as to forln the image of a lucid well delSned -object, by a proper apparatus for that purpose, so that any change of the place of that itnage from the stimulating effects of the warm water upon the hulnour would be readily ascertained. These vvere the esperiments which Mr. HUNTER had instituted and begun a but in which he had not made suffi-cient progress to enable hi-trz: to draw any concl:usions. To Sir JOSEPH BANKS,f}¢Om Mr. HUNTER;. , . . Slr, When I did myself the honour of giving in my claim to tlle discovery of tl e crystalline huxrlour being muscular, and proposed to makeit the subject of 4;he CR-OONIAN letture, I did not foresee that any thing could prevent me frotn fulfilling my prornise; but since ttnat time what with my state of healthr which does not allow me to be very actisre; the hurry of official business on aceou-nt of the w-ar,-and my brotlierin-law, Mjr. Ho, being employed on the medical staff; I ]aave-vlothad the poswer of repeating my experiments, and drawing out. SOn the !vte MF. HUNTERES pretaratlwon24;to my satisfactioll, th-e many conclusions wlnich are the result of such a-power in this humour. Tlle laws of optics are so well understood, and tlle know ledge of the eye, wllen consi-dered -as an optical in-strumentf izas been rendered so perfect, that I clo l1Qt consider myself capable of lnaking any addition to it; but still there is a power Vin the eye by which it can adapt itself to different distances lar too extensive for tlae simple mechatlism of tlle parts to effect. l[lais power xvriters upon tllis subject have been at great pains to investigate and explai-n.| > Tlle motion of the crystalline humotlr Forwards and back:wards) svas asserted by some to Rbe the cause, wllile others -supposed -in the eye a power to alter its sllape, so fas to s]lorten or lengtlaen it;s axis, which altered tlae distance betweela the crystalline hurnour and the point of irtlpre-ssion; but veSshould consi-der tleat a part of the eye is itself a refractor, and tTlat if its shape be altered so as to remove the crystallXine humour from the point of impression, ila order to enable it to bring a distant object to its proper focus ion the retina, this eSect will be in some degree counteracted by the arlterior part of the eye refracting more than before,; by beirlg rendered more consTex. But we have, in fact, no power . capable of producing this effect; for the straight museles, so far from appearing to have this posver have been even supposecl to Ratten tTle eye, and shorten its axis: and it is very possible that the action of these muscles is such as tends to hoth effiectsX but being in opposition to each other, the eye retains its shapeX tlle insertion of these muscles being much more forwards than appears to be necessary for the simple motions -of the eye. Fllrther, when we consider that irl many :animals the shape of the eye is unalterable, as in all of the for tbe CROONIAN Lecture.whale tribe the sclerotic coat being above half at1 inch thick, and composed of a strong tendinous substance. In many fish this coat is composed of cartilage; and in all birds the anterior part of it is (I believe) composed of bone. Frotn all these considerations, I saw no power that could adapt the eye to the various dis;tances of which we find it capable in the human body, unless we suppose the crystalline humour to be varied in figure, which can only be effected by a muscular actiorl within itself.> With this idea $trongly impressed 1lpon my mind and finding that in many anim;alswhen the crystalline humour was coagulated, it had a fibrous structure like musclesX I confess it seerned-to me to confirm itS but as this mightSto -others appearv only conjecturey requiring some proof, I set about such experirnents as were best adapted for that purJpose. Knowing that in all violent deaths the muscles contract I supposed th@ crystalline humour, if muscular, would show signs of this effiect; for which purpose I got the eyes of bullocks wlen removed from the socketss the moment the anitnal was knocked d-owrl, and while the eyes were warrn the humours were removed5" Mr. HUNTER had proceeded thus far in the account of his txperiments, when he was suddenly, and very unexpectedlys carried offand as he llas left no nvotes upon this subject, I am unable to make any addition to tEle account I have already given. Mr. HUNTER'S latring claim to the discovery of a fibrous $tructure irl the crystalline humour, which had been observed long before, and described by the accurate LEUWENHOEK, may appear to require some explanation. The discovery of a fibrotls MDCCXCIV. E 26On the late Mr. HUNTER'S preparationappearance in that htlmourf appertains to ISEUWENHOES; btlt the discovery of an eye in which this structsure of the crzrstallille humour was perfectly distinct, and in s^rhich a11 the circum stances, of course, and situation, could be deterrrlined, is due to Mr. HUNTER: and if it should be found by future obseraration and experiments that this structure whicl] is different from any that has hitherto been describedf is capable o£ producing consequent actions and effiects) sufficient to explain the acljustment of the eye to different distances, it will not b-e considered as a small or unimportant discovery. The Inelancholzr event which has deprived this learned Society of sv valuable a member and whicll Shas takerl from me so able an insttuctor so rare an example, and so inestimable a friend is too\ recent, to make any apology necessary -for the shortness? or incorrectness of this account. . I thought it due to the menaory of my fFiend tlaat no promise of his, however inadequate I feel myself to the performance, should be left unful filled * and the. circumstances of distress, under which it has been drawn up will.procure for me every irldulgence from this learned Society. Leicester SquareX EVERARD HOME. Nolr. 4, I793 * EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE, Tab. V. Fig lst. A transverse sec.tion of tlle crystalline humour of the eye of a cuttle-Ssh to shew its structure; the central part is transparent.> but the others are opaque, hafiring been coaglllated by proo.f<.spirits; and give tlle appearance of distincl; fbre.s surrounding the c-entral part. ---ZhrEow. 7Urans. MDCCX a^. E 9. 26. / ,--/2v.. / // a dz for the CROONIAN Lecture. 27 These fibres are not uniform circles or ovals since the layers are of different thicknesses in particular parts; aa the lSbres where they are most numerous; bb where they are least so. Fig. 2d. A sectioll of the crystalline humour, the central part being removed, toshew the fibrous structure of the sur-rounding lamin. 