D A. G C B. H -1 7 7 Dior:Lim=128 O R -7 -47 1 -72 6 -88 2 115 Dior:Lim=128 -117 3 5 Fig.4. -8 -128 4 B -9 A C 1 ~ 3 2 4 [575] A Letter from Mr. John Collins to the Reverendand Learned Dr. John Wallis Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford, giving his thoughts about some Defects in Algebra. TO describe the Locus of a cubick AEquation. A Cardanick AEquation convenient for the purpose, (viz. such as shall have the dioristick limits rational) must have the Coefficient of the roots to be the triple of a square number such is a -48 a=N. Assume a rank of roots in Arithmetical progression, and raise resolvends thereto a3-48a=N or resolvends. R N Such are 1 1------48=47 2 8---96=88 3 27---144=17 4 64 --192=128 5 125--240=115 6 216-288=72 7 343-336=~7 8 512-384=~128 9 729-432=~297 Draw a Base line and a perpendicular thereto,and from O in the Base line prick the negative resolvends downwards, and the affirmative ones upwards, and raise their roots upon them as ordinates, a Curve passing through the same is one Moity of the Curve or Locus on the right hand for affirmative roots and the other moity on the left hand is described in the same manner by assuming a rank of negative roots, and raising resolvends thereunto. The Curve Fig. 4. may give a resemblance of the thing. And 16 the third part of the Coefficient of the roots cubed is equal to the square of 64 half the resolvend, or dioristick limit. Which in composing of Cardans canon is always substracted from the square of half the absolute,as in the example following. If I were to find the root belonging to the resolvend 297 The square of half thereof is ~22052 1/4 The square of 64 half the dioristick Limit ~ 4~96 The difference is 17956 1/4 And the rule is 148 ~ ~ V17956 1/4. 148 1/2 ~ V17956 1/4. That is in a quadratick AEquation, if 297 were the sum of the two roots and 64 the root of the Rectangle: then if from the square of half the sum, the rectangle be subducted, there remains the square of half the difference of the Z roots, [576] roots, and giving them an universal Cube root, it is. 3 3 V 148~ + V17956~ + V 148~--V17856~9to 9 the root sought. In the former Scheme Q. B. and Q P. may signifie the roots of Cardans Binomials that run in finitely upward and terminate at Q as is mentioned in Section the 5th. And if they can be continued downwards, probably they will terminate at O and R. The touch line in Section 2d. may here be represented by the line 9 S. and the Cbord line between 9 and 8 by T. from whence tis plain that any root between 9 and 8 found near, may be limited by Approximations of Majus and Minus. As to CARDANS RULES 1 The description of the Locus is before handled. 2 The touch line affording approaches by an AEquation derived out of that proposed is before described, and the method of drawing is mentioned by Dr.Wallis in the Transactions. 3. The Limits are of two kinds (viz.) either the Base limits when the resolvend is O. and the ~quation falls a degree lower: or the dioristick limits whereby a pair of roots gain or loose their possibility, as is before described. 4 Cardans canons are but the sum of the roots of a solid quadratick ~quation arising out of half the dioristick limit as the v of the rectangle, and the resolvend as the summ 5 If the roots of those binomials are separately prickt down as ordinates on their resolvends,they beget curves infinitely continued upward, and meeting in a point bisecting the root that is equal to a pair of equal roots, when the ~quation is just limited, or dioristick as aforesaid in the Figure at Q. 6 If these binomials are prickt down as ordinates to their resolvends, Mr. Newton upon sudden thoughts, supposed they may describe both sides of an Hyperbole. 7 If so they cannot be continued downwards, but by the method in Mercators Logarithmotechnia: most numbers of a constant habitude belonging to any arithmetical progression, may by aid of the differences, and a Table of Figurative numbers (yea, and I add otherwise) be continued upward or downward, and if these run downward they will probably end both in the base limits at 'O and ~. 8 If these binomial curves be continued downward, and separately found should always added make the root of a cubick AEquation capable of 3 roots: then Cardans impossible or negative roots are prov'd possible, and we only in ignorance how to extract them. 9 Assume any root within the limits of 3 possible roots, and raise a resolvend to it, and when you have done, by Cardan's Rules improved, you may find that root, and,with a little varyng [577] rying the same,both the other roots (as in the Postscript): for every number or magnitude capable of a cube root, is capable of two more, see Section the 11th. following. 10 If the roots in the former Section, be assumed in Arithmetical progression, and the aequation with its several Resolvends be depressed, there will come out a regular Series of Quadratick AEquations, whence an easie method will rise of writing down such ranks as multiplied by an Arithmetical progression, shall always beget the same cubick aequation, the Resolvend only varying. 11 Let the roots of this series of quadraticks be found as usual in binomials, let these binomials be cubed,and then let it be observed, whether the results are constant portions of the square of the Resolvend and of the dioristick limit: and if so, Cardans Rules will have their defect supplyed. 12 In breaking a biquadratick, 'tis asserted that by leaving the Resolvend at liberty, it may be infinitely and rationally done, without the Aid of the separating cubick AEquation. 13 But supposing such separating cubick in store, of which Bartbolinus in his dioristick hath given us great furniture in Species, why may not several roots of that aequation be assumed rational, and thence the biquadratick broken into as many pairs of quadratick aequations? 14 May not from hence a method arise of writing down 2 Series of quadraticks that multiplied together shall always beget the same biquadratick Nomes, the Resolvend only varying?and hence the Locus of the aequationis easily described. 15 Here again (as in the II) if the binomial roots of these quadraticks be squaredly squared, and those results are constant portions of the cube of the Resolvend, and the dioristick limit; it will be certain there may be general surd Canons for aequations of the 4th. dimension, and Monsuur Cluverius (now at London) positively asserts he hath a general method to obtain them for all Dimensions 16 As Cardans are surd canons deriv'd from the Resolvend, and dioristick limit, so it were worthy disquisition, whether other surd Canons (of which many are fitted to particular cases by your self, Leibnitz and others) do not arise out of the limits of those particular cases and aequations, and whether the glimpse of a general Method might thence be deriv'd for all other aequations, though encumbred with negative quantities? which Mr. Gregory,a little before his death, said he had attained. 17 The Learned Dr. Pell hath often asserted that after the Limits of an aequation are once obtain'd, then it is eaZ 2 sy [578] sy to find all the roots to any Resolvend offer'd. Now for instance (according to Huddens method) in a biquadratick aequation, you must multiply all the terms beginning with the highest, and so in order by 4, 3, 2, 1. and the last term or Resolvend by O. whereby it is destroyed, and you come to a cubick AEquation, the same as Harriot uses to take away the penultimtae Term of the biquadratick, the roots whereof being sound, and as roots having Resolvends raised thereto in the biquadratick AEquation, are the dioristick Limits thereof. 18 And if this easy method were known, we may come down the Ladder to the bottom, and fall into irrational quantities, and ascend again. Against which assymetry, an AEquation might be assumed low, as a rational quadratick, and thence a cubick AEquation formed, whose limits should be found by aid of the quadratic AEquation, and out of that cubick a Biquadratick AEquation, whose limits should be found by the aid of that cubick AEquation, ~c. 19 AEquations may be so continued of two Nomes, that both the dioristick and base limits, should be rational, then supposing such AEquation incomplete, the increasing or diminishing the roots, fills up all the vacant places. Q. Whether or in what place one or both sorts of Limits shall loose their rationality? And what is the nature of the roots thus drawn? in this I think you have already determined in divers of your surd Canons. 20 What Dr. Pells method mention'd in Section 17 should be I cannot guess, unless it be either. To make surd Canons. Or good approaches. Or that raising Resolvends out of assumed roots, those should make a store from whence to derive the roots of the Resolvend offered. Or making quadratick AEquations out of the dioristick and base limits, those might be interpoled, by aid of a Table of figurate numbers, or otherwise thereby, as in quadratick AEquations to attain two roots of a biquadratick at once. which if performed the greatest difficulties are overcome, and why should not this seem probable, in regard the Curve or Locus,be the AEquation what it will, makes indented porches. 21 Suppose I should propound two cubick or biquadratick AEquations, in both whereof all the signs are ~. It is propounded out of these two, to derive a third AEquation, whose root shall be the Summ,Difference, or Rectangle of the Roots ofthe two AEquations propounded. This Mr Gregory a little before his death writ word he had obtained and in the following Series for finding the Moity of a Hyperbolick Logarithm I suppose made use of. From. [579] From a number propos'd substract an Unit, let that be Numerator, and to it add an Unit, let that be Denominator, and call that fraction N. 3 5 7 9 11 13 Then N + N + N + N + N + N + N, &c. is 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 Equal to half the Hyperbolick Logarithm sought. EXAMPLE in the Number 2. N The Fraction is ~ 1, 3333333== 3333333 3, 370370== 123456 5, 41152== 8230 The Rank N is easily 7, 4572== 653 made by dividing ev'ry 9, 508== 56 preceding number by 9.11, 56== 5 13, 6== 0 3465733 2 6931466 which is The Hyperbolick Logarithm of 2 sought. I want time to consider the promises, but hope you will, (in regard you seem to think it strange that any difficulties should remain about Cubicks that are not presently resolved) your considerations wherein will be very acceptable and worthy publick view. Other Series in Print of Mercators, &c. dispatch not as this doth neither thereby can the Logarithm of 2 be easily made, but by making the Logarithms of such mixt numbers or fractions that multiplied together make the result 2 just as 2X1~=3; whence having and finding that of 1~, you presently have the Logarithm of 3. ~ A ~ AEquation that is a Cubick one wanting the second term, may be multiplied or divided by a rank of continual proportionals, so as to render the coefficient of the roots canonick, that is, to make it the same with the AEquations of the Table, that find the Sine, Tangent, or Secant of the third part of that arch to which any Sine, Tangent, or Secant is propounded, and so finding the roots in the tables, those sought are thence obtained by Multiplication or Division. Yea, and the coefficient of the roots may in like manner be rendred an Unit, and then the Resolvends sought in a table of the sums or differences of the Cubes of numbers and their roots,shall help you to such roots, as multiplied or divided as aforesaid shall be the true ones sought. 23 It is an enquiry worth consideration, whether two of the roots of a biquadratick may not be kept constant, and the [580] the rest be encreased or diminished, either Arithmetically, or by multiplication and division in a known Ratio? certainly regular Progressions will arise, though as yet, we cannot encrease the true roots of an AEquation without as much di minishing the Negative nor can we multiply or divide the roots without we alter all of them and consequently cannot reduce coefficients to such habitodes as are desirable. 24 It is a pleasant concinnity out of a root to raise a Resolvend without raising any of the Powers of the root, and at the same time without a thorough binomial Division to depress the AEquation a degree lower. EXAMPLE. 4 3 2 Let the AEquation be a + 10 a + 6 a + 20a = 1072. Let the root be 4, the resolvend is thus raised by adding the coefficients as you go, and multiplying by the root, thus + 4 + 10 = 14X4 = 5646 = 62X4 = 248 + 20 = 268X4 = 1072. with the same work the AEquation may be depressed without Division. EXAMPLE. Let the AEquation be as before, and place the root with the former products underneath respectively, the summ is the depressed AEquation. 3 2 a~ + 10a~ ~ 6a + 20a 1072 = 0 + 4 + 56 + 248 + 1072 3 2 The sum a4 + 14 a + 62 a + 268a = 0. that is divided by a. 3 2 a + 14a + 62a + 268 = 0. which is the under AEquation sought found without Division 25 It's conceived that all AEquations may be so regulated as to be reduced to as many Arithmetical Progressions of multipliers in whole numbers,as the AEquation hath dimensions, whereof one of the progressions shall be a Series of roots: hence the raising Resolvends by tentative work is rendred Logarithmetical For Example write down any 3 arithmeticalProgressions, viz. R H 1X6X3 = 18 I say the Rank ~ are the Resolvends or 2X7X5 = 70 Homogenea Comparations of a cubick AEquation, 3X8X7 = 168 whose roots are the Rank R. This cubick AE4X9X9 = 324 quation is easily attained out of the differen5X1 X~ = 550 ces of the Rank R. for out of the Rank R in any AEquation proposed raise separately the respective powers (with regard to their Coefficients) and out of the three a3 ranks so raised compose their respective differences, and a2. they shall be the same with the differences of the rank a of Resolvends or Homogenea Comparationis here noted by H. If [581] If such AEquation be encombred with fractions they are all removed at once, by multiplying most conveniently, by the least number that is divisible by the Denominators of such fractions, hence also the infinite Series before mentioned (and others) are reduceable to Logarithms. 26 Where AEquations have all their terms adfected with the same sign both ~ + or ~) Mr. Newton and Mr. Gregory deceased have affirmed they are all reduceable to some pure high power, which is of singular use in the infinite Series. And a Learned German where this cannot be done, hath asserted that they may be reduced to a higher power, with a variable Coefficient~ which is the root sought with a common addend or subducend. And even this would renderan easy tentative Logarithmetical way for attaining the root. 27 If but one Root of an AEquation can be found at a time, then questionles a better Method is not yet attained, then what is mentioned in the printed proposal about Printing Mr. Bakers Treatises therein mentioned. 28 Lastly as to Constructions for AEquations, the following Probleme seems to be universal. Any two analytick Curves (viz.) such as wherein the Habitude between the Base and Ordinate may be expressed by an AEquation being given in Magnitude and Position, and from the points of their intersection ordinates let fall to the Axis of either figure, or upon parallels to the said Axis, the inquiry is of what AEquation those ordinates are the roots? Dr Barrow liked the proposition as well grounded, and left a discourse about doing it in the conick Sections, in which there are 3 cases,either the axes are parallel or being produced concur, beyond the vertexes of the figures without; or otherwise intersect within the figures. Mr. Gregery entred on the same contemplation, but death deprived us of the benefit of his thoughts. Of Analytick (alias Geometrick) Curves there are innumerable sorts~ of which I shall mention one or two kinds, Between an Arithmetical Progression and its squares, or between its squares and its cubes, or its cubes and Biquadratics, there may be interpoled as many Arithmetical or Geo metrical means as you please: and thence ~ or Curves deriv'd, which some call Parabeloids or Parabolasters, see Gregories Geometriae pars universalis printed in Italy in Quarto. Postscript explaining Section the 9th. After you have obtained the Cube roots of ~ardans Binomials, according to Van Schoten, in ~ ~ or Kerser, if you change the Sines of the rational parts of those roots, as also the [582] the Sines of the Radical Parts, and multiply those parts by 3, the results are also roots of the cubick AEquation first. proposed. EXAMPLE. aaa --21a---20~0 The cube Roots of the Binomials are +2~+V--~ +2~---V--~ Their summ is the Root sought==+5 And the other two Roots are ~ 2~+ V2~ ~ 2~---V2~ 3 Also in this AEquation a---60a~2~0 The Binomial Roots are +4+V-4 +4---V-4 Hence the Root sought is +8 And the other two roots are--4+V+12 ~ 4--V+12. 