Philos. Trans.No. 491. TAB.II. p. 38. Fig. 1. Fig. 3. Fig.2. 3. Fig. 4. J.Mynde sc X. A Letter from Mr. Henry Baker F.R.S. to the President, concerning some Vertebrae of Ammonitae, or Cornua Ammonis; communicated to Mr. Baker by the Rev. Dr. Miles F. R. S. S I R, I HAVE now the Honour to lay before you a curious and most extraordinary Fossil, which was lately sent to me for that Purpose by my worthy Friend Dr. Miles, of Tooting, F. R. S. It consists of 26 Joints, which he calls Vertebrae, and I believe supposes to have been the Joints of the Back-Bone or Tail of some Animal; but, upon considering Read Feb. 9 1748-9. *. See Sir Hans Sloane's Hist. of Jamaica, vol. I. p. 29. [38] sidering them with Attention, they will perhaps rather be judged to be the several articulated Divisions that compose the Body of some kind of Nautilus, or of some one or other of the various Species of the Ammonitae: Which Opinion is I think supported, not only by the spiral Figure, which they form when put together, but likewise by the Traces or Markings of such-like Articulations, found on some particular Kinds of fossil Nautili and Ammonitae; one whereof I also lay before you, as a Proof of this Conjecture. You will observe all the Parts of this uncommon Fossil are converted into a sort of sparry Substance, and that they are articulated with one another in an exact and beautiful Order. I have fastened them together in two Divisions, that they may be examined more easily than they could be, if they were all separate, and in Confusion: And indeed I am not quite satisfied that these two Bundles belonged both to the same individual Animal; if they did, some Joints must be wanting that came between them, and united them together, as the two Ends do not at present match: And what makes me suspect they did not, is a different Articulation to be observed on one Side of that Division made up of the largest Joints: Besides, the whole Number appears rather too much, and the smaller Joints seem to make up a Body whose Figure is nearly perfect. Your most obedient humble Servant, H. Baker. Strand, Feb. 9. 1748-9. See TAB. II. Fig. 1. The larger Joints. Fig. 2. The smaller Joints. Fig. 3. and 4. The fore and back Side of a single Joint. P. S. [39] P. S. Dr. Miles says they belong to Dr. Clark of St. Alban's; that they were found in Oxfordshire, and were formerly in the Possession of the late Mr. William Becket Surgeon, F. R. S. 