An Account of what hath been of late observed by Dr. Kerkringius concerning Eggs to be found in all sorts of Females. ALthough we have already (No.70.) taken notice in brief of what the Inquisitive Kerkringius hath discoursed of, concerning Ovaria and Ova in all sorts of Femals; yet, to excite the more vigorously our eminent Anatomists here to a further search into this matter, as those of that profession in many forrain parts, as France, Italy, Holland, &c. employ themselves to find what truth there is in it; we thought, it would not be unwelcome to the Curious of all sorts of this Country, to give them here in English a particular description of what the said Kerkringius hath from his own Observations delivered (4019) delivered on this subject: In the doing of which we shall not scruple to follow the French Philosophical Journals,published March 15. 21.and 22, to this effect; What Doctor Kerkring, (saith one of them) hath from his curious Observations advanced, viz. That Man hath his origin from an Egg, hath been very differently received, some appearing surprised at it, other rallying with it, and many being induced thereby to make further inquiry into it. This great diversity of sentiments made me think, I should do well for the satisfaction of all sorts of people, to insert here the particulars themselves, observed by the said Dr.Kerkring,and to add hereafter some Reflections, that may seem necessary to remove the principal difficulties occuring in this matter. But since the things to be said do suppose some knowledge of the Parts, where these Eggs are formed and perfected, it will not be amiss, beforehand to cast your Eyes upon the Figures of Table II, of which the 1st represents a Matrix with its chief dependances: where B, is the Matrix. F.F. the two vasa deserentia, C. the Bladder of Urine, fastned to cteemed by Anatomists to convey semen the neck of the matrix. testiculorum in uterum. D.D. the two testiculi, or rather G. G. the two vasa praeparanthe repository's, which contain the Eggs tia, for preparing the matter, to be spoken of. perfected in testiculis. E.E. the two Tubes of the matrix. Fig.II. represents Eggs of different bigness, as Dr. Kerkring affirms to have found them in the testicles of a Woman. Fig.III. shews a bigger Egg, such an one as we have found at Paris in a Woman of 40 years of age,and in those of a Maid of 18 years. Fig.IV. exhibits smaller Eggs, of which we have found a good number in the testicles of a Cow. Fig.V. represents an Egg, which D. Kerkring affirms to have opened three or four days after it was fallen into the matrix of a Woman, and in which he saw that little embryon marked B, where of he found the Head begun to be distinguished from the (4020) the Body yet without a distinct preception of the organs. Fig. VI. shews a bigger Egg, which D. Kerkring did open a fortnight after conception, finding in it these particulars; A. a little Secondine. D. the Navel-string, by which the B. B. B. B. the membrane, CoChild is fastned to the Secondine. rion, divided in four places. E. a Child of 14 days after ConcepC. C. C. C. the membrane, Amtion, in which the face begins to appear, nios, divided so too. together with the principal parts of the Body. Fig. VII. represents the Sceleton of an Insant, found by the same in one of these Eggs three weeks after Conception. Fig. VIII.exhibits the Sceleton of an other Child, found also by him in an Egg, a moneth after Conception. Fig. IX. represents the Sceleton of an Embryon, sound by Though this Opinion (saith Kerkringius) about the first formation of Man in an Egg, as that of all Fowl, is not common, yet 'tis true; and if any find it difficult to believe, he may cast his Eyes upon Fig. II. where he will see of those Egges represented after the life,as I have found them my self in the body of many Women open'd by me. These Eggs are to be met with,not only in the testicles of Women married, but also in those of Maids, even as young Hens will lay Eggs without any commerce with a Cock. These Eggs are of the bigness of a pea, and they contain a glutinous liquor, which will be hardn'd by the fire, just as the White and Yolk in other Eggs. The tast of them is flat and unpleasant enough; they are invested with one or two fine skins, which strech themselves a little while after the Eggs are fallen into the Womb, and change into two membranes,called Amnios and Chorion.And as these two membranes are alwaies found afterwards, enwrapping the Child; so 'tis very probable, that the Eggs of Women are also cover'd with two skins from their beginning;though by reason of their fineness I could not distinctly see them. It seems, that Fallopius hath seen these Eggs before me; as appears in his Anatom. Observations. And as to their Use they have in Generation, it seems easie to be determined, by (4021) by reflecting on what that very expert Anatomist Thomas Wharton teacheth in his Treatise of Glandulls ch. 33. concerning the manner of Conception. For, according to him, Semen Viri penetrat in testes faeminae per uteri Tubas. Now there it is joyned with the Egg, in such a manner, which hath not been explained till now, but is never the less certain, and much resembling to what comes to pass in the other oviparous animals. The Egg being made thus second, descends into the womb through the vasa deferentia, and in two or three days grows of the bigness of a black Cherry. When they fall down,they are a little bigger than we have represented them; but being soft, they are easily flatned, and never remain round. If in falling they are handled and slightly pressed,there will stick a little skin to the finger, which shews that 'tis not seed, nor anything like it, but of such Eggs, as we speak of. Faeminae dijiciunt haec Ova imprimis tempore menstruorum, vel in Irae vehementia. I have had (saith Kerckringius) an occasion favorable enough for examining that Germe of three or at most four daies, represented Fig. V. A married Woman dyed 3 or 4 daies post fluxum menstruum. I assisted at the opening of her Body, and having found in the matrix a little round mass of the bigness of a great black Cherry, I took the husband aside, and asked him, Num a tempore fluxus menstruorum uxorem cognevisset? And having received for answer, that he had, I pray'd him to let me carry home with me this little ball, which I had found in her womb. I was no sooner come home but I open'd it, and found, that nature had wrought with so much activity in so small a time, that one might already see the first lineaments of a Child, since we observed in it the head as distinct from the Body, and in the head we took notice of some traces of its principal organs. As for the rest of the Body, it was nothing as yet but a masse grosly wrought, as you may see in this Figure. But further, the Embrio represented in Fig. VI. was only of 15.daies, when in its Head there were noted the Eyes, Nose, Mouth, and Ears; and the Body began to have Leggs and Armes (4022) Armes, as well distinguishable as appears in this Figure; which represents it just as it was given me. I durst not yet attempt to separate the Flesh from these little Bones,or rather from these small Cartilages, which in time become Bones; all these parts being yet too tender to make an accurate dissection of them. In Figure VII. is delineated a child, which is already furnished with all its Cartilages, though it had been conceived but three weeks. It being fallen into my hands, I attempted to sever the skin and the flesh from the Cartilages, holding the place of the Bones, and I succeeded well enough in it, and keep still by me the Sceleton thereof, truly represented in this Figure. The Head, wherein the Brain is to lodge and all mans wisdome, is nothing but a simple membrane inflated with wind or Spirits. The Armes are distinct from the Body, and the Hands have now their fingers perfectly distinct. One may easily count in this contexture of Cartilages, how many Ribbs there will be. And lastly the distinction of the Toes of the Feet is as perceptible,as that of the fingers of the Hands. But we must add withall, that all these parts are no longer then hairs, and consequently a great dexterity and niceness is to be used for displaying them. Figure VIII. represents a faetus of a moneth, having now the whole humane shape,and the Bones thereof firm enough in many places to support the parts. Behold the Figure well,which represents this litle Engin in its natural size. It already in a manner sustains it self. The two Jaw-bones appear; the clavicles are formed; and all the Ribbs are very distinct, except the first and last; which are not wont to have,even in the Second moneth,the consistence of Bones. One may see in the Armes the Joynts of the Shoulder-bones and of the Elbows;as also the Thighs and both the Leggs, together with their bones, called Focils; which I had not observed, when I wrote my treatise of the Generation of the Bones. All what you see of white in this eight figure, hath at this time the quality of bones. Where I have a fair occasion to enlarge and to discuss that great question, whence proceeds the hardness in Bones? And I could not give a better,nor a more curious reason for it, than by alledging the doctrine, that serveth for a ground to all Chymistry; (4023) mistry; which is that there is an Acid Spirit, universally diffused through the world, which giveth solidity not only to Bones, but also Minerals and Mettals, and to all Vegetables; penetrating all, fixing all, and being the Father of the Hardness and Solidity in all bodies. Fig. IX. represents a Child of six weeks after Conception: where it is to be noted, that comparing together the Bones of divers faetus's it will be found, perhaps to admiration, that that which have been conceived but a little time after an other, hath yet the bones in proportion twice as big. That which is here exhibited by Fig.IX.appears much lesser than an other of two months, as appears in my Book of the Generation of Bones; but the Bones are for all that no less remarquable: for whatever hath the hardness and consistence of Bones in that, hath already the nature of Cartilages in this. The inferior jaw-bone is most observable in this Child of 6. weeks, marked A, it being at this age composed of six little bones, which when it is born are all joyned together, and make but one. If it be asked, How I come to know, that these degrees of growth come to pass exactly within those times recited; especially since in abortions we often see Embrio's of 4 moneths and above,that are not so big as those spoken of? I might answer by repeating all I said before, when I compared the proportions of those different Germes. To which I shall only add, that Embrio's which miscarry have often remain'd a long while in the Body before they came forth, or have lived there so sickly as not to draw perhaps half the nourishment, necessary for them, and therefore much less than else they would be. So far Kerkringius; on whose discourse are made these Reflexions by Monsieur Denys. 1. That those Eggs are generated in Faeminarum testiculis, and thence made to descend per tubam into the martix, in coitu, per vim spirituosam seminis masculi, per uteri tubam penetrantis. 2. That those Eggs are of different bignesses; since those of the third Fig. represent one according to the life, as it N n n n was (4024) was found with 9, or 10 lesser ones in a woman of 40 years of ge. Such as were found by him in the testicles of a Cow, are duly exhibited in Fig.fourth. If any do wonder, that in so big an animal they should be so much smaller then in a Woman; he will have more cause to admire, that Women have them so little in comparison of those of Ducks, Hens,&c. the first beginnings of things not bearing alwaies a proportion to their state of encrease; as Beanes and Peas (e.g.) whence grow plants but of a very midling size,are much bigger seeds, than the kernels of Apples and Pears, which do produce considerably big Trees. Besides, it may be, that Cowes, when in their heat, may afford bigger Eggs. Mean time the reason why the Eggs of Fowl are alwaies proportionably bigger than those of Women and of Quadrupeds, is,that they, when laid, must contain the matter not only for forming, but also for feeding the young animal. 3. That this Opinion is not so new, as some imagine; since Fallopius in Observ. Anatom. Bartol. Anat.reform. l, 1. c.26. Riolan, Ench. anat. l. 2. c. 37. Laurent. Anat. l. 7. c. 10. make mention of them. But here we shall observe the True state of the Question out of the Journal of Monsieur Gaulois,saying, that the vesicles or Eggs in all sorts of femals,are to be considered in three conditions: 1.When they are fastn'd to the place where nature hath lodg'd them as in a repository. 2. When they are loosn'd from thence. 3. When they enclose the Embrion. The first of these, namely, that there are vesicles in all sorts of Femals, fastn'd to their Bodies,is certain, and not new; as appears by the Authors just now quoted. It is also certain, that after conception, that which encloseth the Faetus, is almost like an Egg; but this is not new neither, seeing that Hippocrates hath observed it lib. de natura puer; and Aristotle hath said it more than once, viz.l. 7. hist. Anim. c. 7. and l. 3. de gener. Anim. c. 9. To which also the moderns agree and amongst others the famous Harvey Exper. 68. de gener. Anim. The Question therefore is only,Whether these Vesicles, fastn'd to the body of Femals, are loosn'd from it; and whether that kind of Eggs, wherein the Embrion is form'd, is one of the vesicles loosned? (4025) loosn'd? And here Kerkringius asserts the affirmative; as hath been seen above. Those that are of the contrary Opinion,say, that it is sure, that that bladder, like an Egg, in which the faetus is form'd, coms not from elsewhere; since 'tis known, that it is produced in the place of conception, and even how it is there produced; as appears out of Harvey,ibid. & tract. de Concept. Besides, say they, the vesicles found in the body of Women, are so fastn'd there, that naturally they cannot be separated from thence; and suppos'd they were loosn'd, there is in the same place, where they are, no passage large enough to get through. They add, that if you will give the name of Eggs to all the vesicles, to be found in the parts of Generation, there would also be Eggs in the body of Men, it being known, that at the side of the vasa deferentia there are found divers vesicles,which Anatomists compare to a Cluster of Grapes by reason of their figure. The Reader, saith this Journalist, is left to decide this Question. He only intimates, that in the many Animals, dissected in the Royal Philosophical Academie at Paris there were never sound any vesicles actually loose. But that, as to a passage for them, there had been, 3 years since, dissected a Woman, and found in each of the tubae uteri a manifest cavity going into the bottom of the matrix: Adding, that though these conduits appear not open ordinarily, they may yet dilate themselves at the time of Conception: As the conduit, through which the Eggs of the Fowl do pass out of the ovarium into the matrix, is usually very close; but yet openssometimes. 4. To return to M.Denys, he observeth, that all other animate creatures (not to speak now of Plants) are produced by the meanes of Eggs; as Birds, Insects of all sorts, Fishes (of which last sort though Whales, Sea-Calves and Dolphins bring forth live creatures of their kind, yet they first breed them within their Bodies in Eggs:) And why not Quadrupeds also and the Femals of Mankind? 5. As for Eggs, said by Kerkringius to have been found in Virginibus, the same M. Denys esteems that probable enough. For, saith he, though we had not the Instance of Hens, layN n n n 2 ing (4026) ing Eggs without any congress of a Cock; the place where they are bred shews enough, that Man contributes nothing to their production; all that he can do, being nothing but an attraction of the Eggs out of their Conservatory, and the making them descend into the uterus, ut ibi irrorentur a semine, & faecunditatem acquirant; even as the Juices of the Earth do vivifie all the Plants by infinuating themselves into the grains, and penetrating their skins. And it may be, it is the alteration that befalls these Eggs, when they are retained too long, which causeth the abundance of Vapors and disorders, which other parts are accused of. On which occasion he alledgeth a notable example of a young Maid of quality, that lately died in the 18th year of her age; who was subject to very frequent Hysterical fits of vapors, of which she was one day assaulted with so great violence, that it cost her her life.Her Body being opened, Testiculus dexter erat flaccidus, & figurae solitae; at finister adeo tumidus & inflatus, ut Ovi Anatis aequaret magnitudinem: Eoque aperto,Ovum fuit intus repertum, Olivam figur~a & magnitudine referens, & separatu nequaquam difficile. This, he saith, is still kept by Monsieur Charcs. N. B. Since these particulars were sent to the Press, there came to the Publishers hands the very lately printed Book of that diligent and expert Anatomist Regnerus de Graaf, intituled Tractatus novus de Mulierum Organis generationi inservientibus; in which the above-recited difficulties, moved by M. Gaulois, and others also, are amply taken notice of, and ingeniously solved: Concerning which, we may by the next opportunity give the Curious Reader a fuller accompt; as also, wherein the said De Graaf differs from Kerkringius,in this matter, which, for want of time, could not be done at present. An Tab. II. Trans. No. 8L. Fig. I. Fig. V. D G G D F F B E E B Fig. VI. C B Fig. II. Fig. III. C A B B C C D E Fig. IV. C B Fig. IX. Fig. VIII. Fig. VII. A 