An Accompt of Four Books. 1. Franciscide le Boe Sylvii PRAXIS MEDICAE Idea nova, Lugduni Batav. 1671. THe Learned and Experienced Author of this work, desiring to furnish his Auditors with a compendious Medical Practise, and to do it after the Method of that Excellent and Happy Physitian Platerus, did propose to himself to handle chiefly of the more Simple Affections of the Humane Body, because they being well understood, the knowledge of those that are Complicate will not be difficult to attain. C c c But (2160) But considering with himself, that Mans good Health consists in and is known by the Integrity and good disposition of all his Functions; and want of Health, in and by the indisposition and depravation of the same, he thought fit to treat of those Affections, that occur in the Practise of Physitians, according to the difference of those depraved Functions. And forasmuch as these Functions serve either for the Conservation of the Individual, or the Propagation of the Species; and the former of these is conveniently subdivided into the Natural, serving for the various change of substances taken inwardly, and the Animal Functions, consisting in the knowledge of all sorts of things by the External and Internal senses, as also in the various Motion of the Soul and Body; He therefore distributeth this whole Praxis into three Books, which treat of the Affections, respecting the Indisposed Functions of Man. I. The Natural. II. The Animal; and III. Those that serve for Generation. We shall not enlarge here by representing any particulars of this Work, but refer the Judicious Reader to its perusal and consideration, by which as he will doubtless meet with many useful Medical Prescriptions and Remedies, so he will not find it barren of considerable Observations and Experiments relating to Natural Philosophy, and in particular to Anatomy. II. Relatione dello Stato presente dell' EGYPTO, seritta dal Sig. Gio. Michaele Vanslebio, e dedicata al Grand Duca di Toscana. In Parigi, 1670. in 12~. PAssing by what this Relation observeth of the Political Government of Egypt, and the Original Language and Religion of the Cophthes, (which maketh a great part of the Book, but is not suitable with the design of these Tracts,) we shall take some notice of what it delivers concerning the Natural State and Productions of the Country, the Oeconomy of the Inhabitants,and the Magnificent Structures yet remaining there. First then the Author observeth, that the winter of Egypt is so mild, as to be like to the March air of Rome; and that the usual time of Rain is in the months of December, January and February, and that principally about the Sea-coast: Of Tempests, from Easter to Whitsontide, when the Wind is for the most (2161) most part Easterly: Of the most agreeable weather, in November and December, when the Countrey is dry'd again from the Nile waters, and all things in a verdure,the winds gentle and the Sun tolerable: Of the violent heats, in April, May, June, and further till the inundation of the Nile cooleth the Air; which begins in July and ends in September or October; and proveth the great and general manure of that Country, when it ariseth above sixteen braccia or Italian Ells; beneath which when it stops, the Inhabitants are not obliged to pay any tribute to the G. Signior. The cause of this Inundation as 'tis principally the plenty of rain falling in Abyssinia, so this Author taketh in the Northerly winds beginning in June, and lasting till October, and hindering the waters of the Nile from discharging themselves into the Mediteranean. These waters being generally esteem'd very good, are clear'd from their turbidness by bitter Almonds beaten and thrown in. When he speaketh of the Animals of Egypt, he taketh particular notice of the great variety and abundance of Birdsthere. When he specifieth the vast number of Vegetables, he giveth an account of the various uses of the Dactil-tree, and particularly, that the stones of Dates are given to Camels in long voyages; as also, that Horses as long as they feed upon Trefoil, have no drink given them. Treating of the Fossils of Egypt, he observeth, that their Niter is most abounding in the Desert of St. Macare; and that about Thebe there is digged up store of Marble, Porphyre, Alablaster, Granates, &c. Secondly, as to the Oeconomy of the Egyptians, he relateth at large their practise of Agriculture, and noteth, that they do not cut, but pull up their Corn, and that their Corn-harvest is from the middle of April to the middle of May; yea that sometimes even before the middle of April new bread is eaten in Cairo. In Villages, for want of Ovens, they bake their Bread under the hot Ashes; and, in making their bread, some put Niter into the dough, to raise and colour it: which must be eaten new, or else 'tis not good. Among their Drinks they have 1. Meath,which,though it inebriateth,yet they are permitted to drink, though wine be forbidden them: 2. A Liquor very refreshing,made by the Mores of Licorish. C c c 2 As (2162) As to their way of Building,distinctions observ'd in Cloathing,and their Fuel,I refer to the Authour himself. Thirdly, concerning the remainders of the Antient Buildings this Author delivers many particulars, consonant to what others have written of the same, as Pyramids, Obelisks, Aqueducts, the Colomn of Pompey,&c. III. Theod Kerckringii M. D. Commentarius in CURRUM TRIUMPHALEM ANTIMONII Basil. Valentini, a se Latinitate donatum. Amstelodami, 1671. in 12~. THis Learned Physitian assureth the Reader in the Preface to this Book, that having carefully perused the Antimonial Treatise of Valentin, he tried all the particulars, ordered therein to be done; but that in the performance thereof he erred frequently, and was at great expences without success, yet not by any default of the Author, but alwaies his own; esteeming this Basil to be the best, the sincerest and the clearest of all Chymists he knoweth, and engaging his credit, that he being well understood, you may have what ever can be hoped for from Chymistry; Nature having lodged, as he thinks, all her Treasures in this Mineral, p.42. In his Commentary upon this Chariot he intimateth to have delivered some Enchereses or Manual Operations, which, how slight soever they may seem, he saith have cost him man thousands; adding, that patience in searching, ability in expending, unwearied attention and deep meditation, are the requisites to attain the knowledge of what is here contained. Of the many things, that are said concerning the excellent usefulness of Antimonial Preparations, our Commentator extols in a very especial manner the Red Oyl of the Glass of Antimony of which yet he teacheth the way of preparing it but aenigmatically, though he adds, to have done it more clearly than any body declared it to him. This he affirms to be the truly Universal Medicine, being seasonably and rightly used; alledging (p.164 165.) a considerable Experiment of his own, made with it, importing, that by the means of this Diaphoretick Oyl alone he cured a young woman of a high Dropsie in twenty daies,making her on the fourth and the following days so to swim in water from sweat, that it dropped at length through the bed upon the floor. Besides (2163) Besides this, he much praiseth, for Chirurgical uses, the Balsom or Tincture of the Sulphur of Antimony, affirming upon his credit, that Basil Valentin hath not given the full due to its worth; and relating withall (p.157.158.) the History of a Cure, he performed with it upon a cancred Breast, that had been under the hands of some of the most expert Chirurgions, who judged it not curable but by cutting it off; which our Author prevented by the use and application of this Balsom, whereby within two days the matter was brought to due maturity, and, upon the joint use of some proper internal Medicines, the person in the space of two months restored to perfect health. There is another Preparation of Antimony here described, and praised above all the rest, call'd by Basil, his Balsom of Life, by which he affirms to have cured many that were altogether despaired of, appealing herein to the testimony of his Brethren. In which he is seconded by this Commentator, who declareth, that in this Medicine is contained not only what can be made of Antimony, but almost all, what can be prosed by a Spagyrist. For the other particulars we shall leave the Reader to the careful perusal of the Book it self, and the cautious trial of the Experiments and Operations contain'd therein. IV. Cogitationes Physico-Mechanicae de Natura VISIONIS Auth. Johanne Ott Schaphusa Helvetio. Heidelbergae 1670. in 4~. THis Author shews himself to be a great Admirer of Algebra, asserting this Thesis about it, in one of the Corollaries annexed to this Book: Analysis Geometrarum vera est methodus inveniendi & demonstrandi; ipsiusque ratio a Cartesio tradita quicquid Synthesis habet egregii, Cavallerii Methodus Indivisibilium abstrusi, Thomae Hobbes Computatio veri & sulidi, & Analysis Veterum absconditi plene continet. And whatever he hath perform'd, he prosess th he hath obtain'd by means of this Analysis; saying thus in his Dedication. Ex quo Telescopiorum Inventum mundo innotescere caepit, virii variam illius rationem reddere conati sunt, & quidem omnes fere non-nisi ex Sphaerae sectione Tuborum sentes polire tentarunt, donec Cartesius tandem Sectiones Coni negotio Dioptrico aptiores esse demonstraret. Nontamen desuerunt, qui contrarium asserendo, aut omnino inutiles esse affirmando, demonstrationibus Cartesii obstreperent. (2164) streperent. Mecum vero omnium rationes perpendens, Cartesii ratiocinium firmo talo niti, Analyseos beneficio deprehendi; nec ulla in re haesitavi quam quomodo figurae illae in Plano delineari aut solidae materiae induci possent. Ipsius enim Cartesii machina nimis composita videbatur, motusq; nimium complicatus; adeoque commisso in unico levi errore non posse non majorem successive generari, extra dubium erat Quamobrem machinam quandam simplicem conficiendam esse linearum Conicarum naturam requirere sensi. Monente autem Clariss Dom. Spleissio, Mathematico subtiliss. & Astron. Incomparibili, operi me accinxi, ac in subsidium vocata methodo seu Geometria Cartesii, ante triennium Machinam quandam fabre-fieri curavi quae simplicitate sua & motus regularitate nulli alii cederet; ea autem paucos ante menses ultimum perfectionis. suae gradum consecuta est. Absoluta autem machina, operi me confestim applicui ferro inducendo figur as Conicas, praecipue vero Hyperbolas & Parabolas, quarum focus 1.2.10.25.50. pedes & ultra a vertice abesset. Praeterquam enim quod Instrumento meo cujuscunq; generis Hyperbolae, Ellipses ac Parabolae describi queunt, ut & Circuli segmentum quodcunq;, id tamen quod machinae perfectionem commendat, hoc est, quod nullo limite claudatur ipsius Usus; vix enim sex pedes maxima sua extensione superat machina, ipsius tamen ope, Arcus Circuli, Ellipsis, Parabolae, atq; Hyperbolae delineari poterit, qui vitro insculptus tubum 10, 100, 1000 pedum requirat. In proxima vero Sylvae Herciniae vitraria, modulis beneficio cuneorum confectis Vitra infundere curavi, quae quamvis inutilia fuerint ob materiem impuritatibus scatentem, attamen Coni Sectiones maxime accommodatas esse Dioptrico usui, ipsasq; in Plano delineari posse deprehendi; ita ut mediante machina mea celeberrimam istam inter nobilissimos mathematicos agitatam controversiam determinare possim. Concerning his Dioptrical Studies he saith, that remote from other Masters and Books, by the conduct of the Cartesian Analisis he hath begun to wind himself by a long Calculus out of the Labyrinth of Vision, and by the means of AEquations discover'd d vers truths both theorical and practical; among which he del vers one, which commends it self both by its newness and usefulnes, which is, To contract the longest Tubes, without at all prejudicing their perfection, by magnifying so much the angle of Vision, that the longest Tube shall not perform the like, the Lateral rays being so accurately secluded, that more of them shal trouble (2165) trouble any of the longest Tubes, then those short ones of his contrivance; of which he saith he hath given the grounds in this Tract: Wherein he affirms he delivers an Hypothesis, whereby the Nature and Manner of Vision is so clearly and distinctly exhibited, that no Phaenomenon shall occur which may not be readily explained thereby; assuming to this end the most signal Experiments and Geometrical reasons; and explicating withall some phaenomena, conducive to the same; as of Firmness, Fluidity, Refraction, Reflection, Lucidity, Transparency, Opacity, Colors, and the Parts of the Eye: In the doing of which he inserts this generous and candid Paragraph, pag. 7. Missis illis occultis qualitatibus & similibus, nunquam a quoquam revelandis, eorum Philosophorum modum sequi magis arridet, qui Regiam viam, desertis dumetis & spinis, calcare ma unt, ex claris & distinctis principiis exordium capessendo, atq; Experimentis Ratiocinia, in rebus praesertim Physicis, confirmando, in auxilium vecatis Geometrarum demonstrationibus; ad normane Regiae indolis, Societatis Anglicanae; quorum institutum si a ducentis jam seculis prosecutum fuisset Genus humanum, & amica conspiratione eorum viam legisset, quin Naturae penetralia intimius perspecta haberemus, & Naturae quasi Domini salutaremur, ego nullus dubito. Nunquam tamen desuerunt, qui id pro viribus praestiterunt, praesertim Mathematici & Veterum Philosophorum nonnulli; quamquam opus illud non sit unius alteriusve hominis, sed plurium, imo integrae cujusdam Societatis, ex diversis tum nationibus tum locis coagmentatae. For the rest the Reader may peruse the Book it self; of which yet I fear there are but very few Copies hitherto-come over, if any more than that, out of which this Accompt is given. An Observation concerning certain Insect busks of the Kermes kind communicated by Mr. Lister, May 22, 1671. which came to hand since the Printing of the former sheets. I Gave you a short account formerly * of certain matrices or Infect-husks, of the Kermes-kind, which I had some years since observ'd on Plumb-trees. This instant May hath afforded me the same Observation, and some little improvement of it. I have observed the same Patellae or Husks indifferently * March 17,167~. I find in my Notes (saith he) that some years ago I gather'd off our English Oak round Worm-husks very like Kermes-berries, but I then made no tryal of them. Again, I have often observed on Plumb trees and Cherry-trees; also on the Vine and Cherry Laurel certain patellae or flat Husks containing worms, which or at least the husks; for them only I had the opportunity of making the Experiment on) will strike a Carnation with Ly and stand. (2166) rently on Vine-branches, Cherry-Laurel, Plumb-trees, and the Cherry tree. The figure of the husks is round, save where it cleav'd to the branch; for bigness, som what mo e than half a grey pea. These, Isay, cleave to their branches, as patellae do to Rocks: For colour; they are of a very dark Chesnut, extreamly smooth, and shining membran-like. They adhere most commonly to the under-side of a branch or twig, and so are best secur'd against the injuries of the weather, as too much Sun and Rain. They are well fastned to the branches single, and sometimes many in company. They are seldom found without vermin, as Pismires, &c. which, I guess, pierce them and pray upon them. Thus much for the entire Coccum. If you open one of them, that is, cut off dextrously the top of the husk with a rasor, you'l find sometimes five or more small white magots of the Wasp or Bee-kind, that is, sharp at both ends. When these are carefully taken out, you will further observe the remainder of their provision of meat, and a partition 'twixt them and the branch, where, what they excerne, is reserv'd. Lastly, if, when you have clear'd the Husk of Maggots, Bee-meat, and excrements, you then rub the empty membran upon white paper, it will freely and copiously tinge the paper with a beautiful purple or murrey. At the date of this, none of the Maggots were yet in nympha, so that you cannot expect from me a description of the Bee or Wasp they will turn to, when they come to perfection. Before the season be over, the Curious may satisfie themselves forthwith about it, and verifie and improve it. Few Cherry-trees, I suppose, in any place, but will yield them some of these Berries. How-ever, if they shall not be so fortunate as to light on them, I shall furnish you with them, &c. 