T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 41 C H A P T E R XIII. Of the Manner of Publication of the Papers laid before the Society. I. THE Philosophical Transactions shall be printed at the sole charge, and for the sole use and benefit, of the Society, and of the Fellows thereof; to the intent that each of the present Fellows, who actually contribute and pay towards the support of the Society, or who have compounded for such contribution, according to the rules and orders established in relation thereto, or who have for other particular reasons been exonerated and discharged from such contribution by order of the Council, may receive gratis (but under proper limitations and restrictions) one copy of such of the Philosophical Transactions, as shall be printed as aforesaid; and that all persons, who shall hereafter be admitted Fellows, shall, under the same conditions, receive and be intitled to the like benefit and advantage. II. That once, at least, in every year, a proper portion of the Papers, which have been communicated to the Society, shall be printed under the name and title of Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, and that the time and manner G of 42 S T A T U T E S O F of printing those Papers shall be fixed and determined by the Council, as occasion shall require. That such a number of the copies so printed, as shall be sufficient to supply the Fellows of the Society, shall be delivered to the Librarian of the Society; who shall enter in a book, to be provided for that purpose, the number of copies received by him, for which he shall be accountable to the Council for the time being. III. The Librarian shall deliver gratis, at the Society's house, one of the said copies to every Fellow of the Society (except as herein after excepted) who shall demand the same, either in person, or by letter or other writing under the hand of such Fellow as shall not come in person to make such demand: and the person so receiving a copy of such Philosophical Transactions shall at the same time sign the abovementioned book, as having received the said copy. IV. In order that the Fellows may be apprized of the time when it will be proper for them to come or send for their respective copies, due and timely notice shall be given in some one or more of the public news-papers of the day upon which the Librarian will begin to deliver out the said copies, as aforesaid; which day shall be fixed and appointed by the President for the time being. Provided always, that no Fellow of the Society whatsoever shall be intitled to demand or receive any such copy of the Transactions, whose annual contribution shall be one year in arrear; or whose Election and payment of admission fees and regular Contributions shall not have preceded the date of the time published for the delivery of the said Transactions; neither shall the 3 Executor T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 43 Executor of any deceased Fellow receive a copy of the Transactions published after the death of such Fellows. Provided also, that no Fellow of the Society shall receive, or be intitled to receive, gratis, any copy or copies of the Transactions, so printed as aforesaid, after one year shall be elapsed from the time of the Librarian's having begun to deliver out such copies respectively; but that his neglecting to demand them for so long a time shall be deemed a forfeiture and dereliction of his right thereto: unless the Council for the time being, upon their being made acquainted with the reason of, or some excuse for, such delay, shall order the same to be so delivered; such order, however, not to extend further back than to the last five years preceding its date. Provided also, that if the number of copies so to be printed as aforesaid, shall be greater than what will be requisite to supply each of the Fellows with one copy; such supernumerary copies, as also all such as shall remain in the hands of the Librarian after that five years shall be elapsed from the time of his having begun to deliver out such copies respectively, shall be disposed of, at such times, and in such manner, as the Council for the time being shall order and direct. G ~ C H A P