r 332 1 XII. An Account of the Orifice in the Retina of the human Eye, discovered by Professor Soemmering. To which are added, Proofs of this A4ppearance being extended to the Eyes of other Animtls. By Everard Home, Esq. F. R. S. Read April 19, 179 8. HAVING had the honoibr of laying before this learned Societv, at different -times, observatiojis onl the structure of the eye, both in man and in other animals, Il have been naturally led to avail myself of every" opportunity to investigate this subject. My attention has been recently directed to the prosecution of this inquiry, by a very curious -discove-ry of an aperture I'l the retina of the human eye, which we owe to Mr. SOENMERING, an anatomist of considerable reputation, resident at Mentz. His account of this discovery has been published on the Continent, but I do not know that any copy of the memoi, has been brought into this country. It wvas believed by Mr. SOEMMERING, arnd also by the French anatomists, that this appearance is only to) be met with in the human eye. I have, however, been sO fortunate as to discover it in the eyes of other animals awid the object of the present paper is, to lay before the Society the observations I have made Upon this subject. I am indebted to my friend Sir CHArP.LYF BLAGDENT, for the first intelligence of Mr. SOEMMERING's discovery. I afterwards received an more pcarticular accounts in a very obliging letter Mr. HOME'S Accozunt of an O4fice, &c. 335 from Mr. MAUNOIR, an eminent surgeon atGeneva, which contains, I believe, the .material information published by Mr. SOEMMERING; I shall therefore transcribe that part of the letter, which is as follows. "The war being arn obstacle to a free communication be "twveen England and the Continent, you, are not, perhaps, ac"quainted with a new discovery in the anatomy of the human "eye, made by a professor of Mentz, Mr. SOEMMERING permit "me, therefore, to say something on the subject. He was dissecting, in the bottom of a vessel filled with a transparent "liquid, the eyes of a young man who had been drowned, and "was struck on seeing, near the insertion of the optic nerve on the retina, a yellow round spot, and a small hole in the middle, through whlich he could see the dark choroides, (looking at the surface of the retina which covers the vitreous humour.) iHe dissected other human eyes, and constantly, hlen the dissection wa c atefuily made found the hole of the retina. seemnigly at the Dosterior end of the visual ra( IdiS, rnearly twN~o lines on the temporal side of the optic nerve, anid thle hiole su-Arrounded by the yellow zone, of above_ three linies inl !diam1Teter. Thr e vhole of tlhe retina is not directly seen, " beinlg coNverecd 'Witha fold of thle retijna itself' Ani anatomist of aCrlis disectedL man eves CSof qluadrupeds and birds, and foUnd th spot anaI hole in iw animal but the human Sh1o1uld you thinkr:, ti-nt na--ture has intenlded this hole to grow(, larrge whenthe eIcI is opposed to a stronrg ioit, and tlhereby cause ra great part of the rays to fall on the choroic, an ice neYrd, wONlhen the eye is in darkness ? And the wvant of S aC01). cotnstrulCtionl in aninm'als. is tt owing to a greater powqr 834 Mr. HOME'S Account of an Oriflce "of augmenting or diminishing the pupil, than in men? If "Messrs. MARIOTTE and LE CAT should come to life again, "o they would find, in that hole, the explanation of the phaeno " menon of the two cards, one disappearing at a certain dis. "6 tance from one eye, &c. which may be explained by saying, "1 that where the optic nerve enters the ball, there is no cho"roid, and so no vision. c; I dissected some human eyes a short time after I had read "the discovery, and found the spot, the ruga concealing it, and "the yellow zone. The best way, I think, to see them, is to take "off the half posterior part of the sclerotica, then the corre"spondent part of the choroid; both must be cut round the "insertion of the optic nerve. The retina is to remain bare and "untouched, sustaining alone the vitreous hum.our; then you " may see the round spot, which reaches the optic nerve, and a fold of the retina, marking a diameter of the spot. Then, if "you press the ball a little with your finger, so as to push the "vitreous humour rather near the bottom of the eye, the ruga "is unfolded, and you will see the hole perfectly round, of 4 of "a line in diameter, and its edges very thin. "All this can be seen on the inside of the eye, but not so "s perfectly; and, in that eaw., you must make your observa"1 tions in water." Many months elapsed, after the receipt of this letters, before I could procure an eye in a proper state for observing this aperture in the retina; but, in the course of last month, several opportunities offered, and I saw the appearance described by Mr. MAUNOIR very distinctly. The mode I adopted for examining the retina, was that of removing the transparent cornea; then taking away the iris, in the Retina of the Eye. 335 and wounding the capsule of the crystalline lens, so as to disengage the lens, without removing that part of the capsule which adheres to the vitreous humour; by which means, the retina remained undisturbed, and could be accurately examined, when a strong light was thrown into the eye. The aperture in the retina, surrounded by a zone with a radiated appearance, was distinctly seen, on the temporal side of the insertion of the optic nerve, and about 6 of an inch distant from it, apparently a little below the posterior end of the visual radius. The aperture itself, in this view, was very small. After having viewed it in two different eyes, I took an opportunity of showing it to Sir JOSEPH BANKS and Sir CHARLES BLAGDEN, who both saw it with the same degree of distinctness. At first, I believed it necessary to have a very fresh eye for demonstrating this aperture, but I have since found, that it is more readily seen in an eye two days after death; the zone, which is the most conspicuous part, being of a lighter colour the first day, than it is upon the second. I have also succeeded in preserving the posterior part of the eye in spirits, without destroying the appearance of this aperture, This preparation I am unwilling to bring to a public meeting of the Society, since it may be liable to be injured by being much shaken; but I hope my having shown it to Sir JOSEPH BANKS and Sir CHARLES BLAGDEN, will be sufficient evidence, both to the Society and others, that such a preparation can be md-cide. I am induced to make this remark, by recollecting that a celebrated anatomrist of Edinburghii denied, in his last publication, tlat the anterior lamina of the cornea cc&.a' be Separated from theB Qthc17rSj as a continuation of the tendons of the four Mr. HOME'S Account of an Orifsce straight muscles of the eye, for no other reason than -because he could not succeed-in the demonstrati6n of it; the failure, probably, arising from the eye not being sufficiently fresh to admit of such a separation. Had it been mentioned in my former paper, that the preparation, from which the engraving was made, had been show-n t6 this learned Society, or to any members of it, my assertion would probably have had more weight. -In separating the vitreous humour from the retina, I found a greater adhesion at this particular part; and, wvhen the vitreous humour was removed, the retina was pulled forward, forming a small fold, in the centre of whiclhi was this aperture. This doubling was sometimes produced by endeavouring to cut through the vitreous humour, to disengage the crystalline and its capsule. I have been the more particular in describing the appearance of this aperture in the retina of the human eye, that, while I announce this curious discovery of Mr. SOEMMERING to this learned Society, I may give the most complete confirmation of it. To have this in my power affords me a particular pleasure, A it gives me an opportunity of doing justice to the merit of a focifn anatomist, who deserves so highly of our art; and who has demonstrated to his cotemporaries, that those who labour patiently, and follow their pursuits with ardour, may still hope to make discoveries, in the anatomy evemnof-those parts of the body which are considered as the best understood-, since the human eye, so long the favourite object of the most eminent anatomists and philosophers, is still but imperfectly investigated. After having made the preceding observations upon this singular appearance in the human eye, I found-, in Dr. DUNCAN'S in the Retina of the Eye. 337 Annals of Medicine for 179, an account of a publicati'on concernLing it by Professor REIL, entitled, The plait, the yellow sp(,t, and the transparent portion of the retina of the eye. After these are described separately, the following circumstances are mentioned. " SOEMMIERING takes this appearance "to be a real hole. Buzzi, on the contrary, thinks that it is merely a transparent and thin portion of the retina. "MICHAELIS seems to agree with him. REIL and MECKEL are "rather in favour of the existence of an actual hole. " MICHAELIS scaw the plait more distinctly in foetuses of seven or eight months, than in adults; alld the transparent portion lay concealed within it, but the yellow spot was wcvanting: nor is it to be observed in the eyes of newly-born s children. After the first year, it becomes somewhat yellow, and the depth of the colour increases wvith the age of the Subject. SOEMMERING says that this spot is pale in children, C origrht yellow in xoung people, and becomnes again pale in Ol age. Its degree of saturation seems to be intimnately connected with the state of vision : it constantly dimninishes, in proportion as vision is obstructed. XVhee one eye only is disea-sed,. i it tle yelloW spot is s ~anting, and the plait is s; s>ali andl xvr inlkled ; whllile, in the sound one, they are rathler more distinct thlan vsual. M ICHALLIS discovered n1o vestige of thiese aplearances in the cevs of clors, snile, 0r calves. Professor RiBS i no' of dissectinc the eye, to show the aperture 'and pltai-it, -t._A'07 SS i' liear to t1l-at nentioned in Mr, MAUNGIR'S ha ter, It wvill cappear, fromn thle accoun-tif of this orifice in the retina, which precedes these observc4tion Of Professor REIL, that the MIDCCXCVIIIx X 338 Mr. HOME'S Account of an Orifice plait so particularly mentioned is an artificial appearance, which6il takes place in the dissection of the eye, and arises from the circumstance of the vitreous humour adhering more firmly to the edge of this orifice, than to any other part of the retina; so that the smallest motion of the vitreous humour, in consequence of dividing it, or removing the choroid cotat, produces a plait, by pulling forwards this portion of tlhe ietila. WV hat is said of the colour of the yellow spot, an6 of thle diCfirereof 'poliion whether it is a hole or a trms, m -. 'Oon oz (he retina, sh all consider more ftily in anothe part (>1 1 f s ti er. After having ascertained 1-th ap cl iL oue > 4 ithis 11pert ure A4n the' human eye, and found whYItait azppeared the best 1,node of seeing it, I determined to investierte this sub~t in the eyes o: other animals. The mnonkey. ;as the first animl which I procure~d for observation; being led, frompreviI ;inwiedge in C ceL)mratie anatomy, to believe that thre sti~r+ Fro of i s ey e mist bear a very close resemblance to th t A' t s.1 The eye was examnined in nediate' the d e th-f of the animal, and was prepared in NVe tnte atIy havt I hve al^rec-d, described the human eye to lmav-we Icen r n mis purposc so tha1ct the concave surface ofthe reUu upoed'5A in its moSt natural state, and the viteous huImo0r, being ettee lept it expanded, and free from rzig,. On the first view, nothniln ws to be sCkfl but one dark surface, surroundinx t1e e ntrance of tlIe optic nerve. Two hours after death, the retila becalme sufficiently7 opaque to be distinguished, and, immediately after, the or1fic e was visible, appearing to be an extremely smiall, circUlar aperture, without any margin ; but, in hailf anl hour more, the zone had formed, which, when very accurately exa-mined in a bright in the Retina of the Eye. light, had an appearance of four rays, at rigt anges,s e pressed in the annexed plate. (SeeTab. XVII. fig. A.) Its situy tion, respecting the optic nerve ws precsely the samee in Pt Ve~_ s Pp,1 the human eye. As I considered this to, be a fact of some im portance, since it proved the aperture in, the rtina to e a part of the structure ofthe eye, gen erally, ad. not. apeculiarityi the human eye, I requested Sir JosHBNKS, Sir CHARE BLAGDEN, and Dr. BAILLIE, to examine it,: to all o th-pai appeared ery distinct. Afterhaving shown it to thoQe gentlemen, and having an accurate drawing amade ofit, I p d that portion of the ,eye in spirits; where thepetre inthe retina can still -be distinctly seen, but the radiated: apearance is lost. In the eye of abullock, prepared in the same maner, I looked in vain for a similar appearance: if it existed,, and bore any proportion to the size, of -the eye-ball, as Pitappears to do in the human eye and -that of the monke, ijt must have been very visible.; The; concave surface of-the .W C.i retina was examined, in different lights, under a variety of cir cumstances, and by magnifying glasses of ,different powers but still no aperture could be discovered. Iwas, however, very much struck, while looking, at the optic nerve, see something in thevitreous humour, (in consequence of a person accidentally shaking the table,) that had not bee be observed. This proved to be a semi-transparent tube, resembling in its coats a lymphatic vessel, -rising ,from, the retina,> close too the optic nerve, on the temporal side of its insertion, and coming directly forwards into the, vitreous Ihumour, in which it was lost, after being distinctly seen for Maths of an inch of its course. Xx 2 Mr. Hoy'sS Accotnt `of an Orifce Itf aappearaee: is'accuraely' delineated 'in" the annexed plia (F ig. 4i) ThAi~s t~tube< is not so distinctly seen in the eye immediately r` t , S' . i -e uon }the animal's death,' as 'some hoursafter; and is much iiore obvious`'in. some eyes than in ters A he coats of the Vbe' must: be nearly the same in allsees, tis, 'difference prorbabilyH a~rises from its contents'-not always having the same dewr: se-s': ''fo ' A4~ d gree of transparency. 6W h the& eye has 'been kept 24 hours after the animal's leaththUre ~is 'atn a'ppearance of a zone of a circular' frm, a shade darker than the rest of the-eye, in which the optic nerve is included whe n this zone, which is nearly .270ths of an inch in diameter,, is attentively examined, the tube I have described is exa'ly -in thecentre of it. The tube'eems' to'be' confned by 'the vitreous hmour,' (while that humour is entire,) and only -to move '-along with thecentral part of it ;iand, in some : . .. V . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a oia _n instances, when the vitreous humour is divided, the tube falls down.Its attachment at the retina appears stronger than its own ac me er ritt lateral connection with the vitreoushumour; for, whenI coagula tedthe vitreous humour in spirits, and separated it from the retina, aI found th t ube wasleft with the retina, but upon being touched-was, easily torn. In the sheers ,'eye there is a sim ilathe same situation, respecting the optic hner srter, and much Dless feasily detected. It does nee mr orethan 210th of an ichi in length,; before it is lot -in thI vitrous hiunIOU'r. After having-seen the tube distintctlyit difrent eys and-ving had adra'wing made of it, I -looked for it in s'everal others, without: findinhg, it&: -but, ;examiningan eye from whichthe crystallinelens had not be'en removed, only an aperture -hidoo. ]ran7 r. EMD C CXC VIM LaAXVl.p. 3.44. ------= II .. b a , 1# 4. , X --"e -9. Al i jli. 3 -... y , , j.;,. in the Retina of the Eye. 8 made into the vitreous humour, by removing a pordon of the ciliary processes along with the iris, -th&: tube, was distincty seen. The weight of the lens probably pulled forward the vitreous humour, and kept, the short tube erect, in its natural situation. I mention this circumstance, topre6vent, as much as I am able, other -anatomists from being disappointed in not finding it; which may readily happen, if the search be not made with considerable attention. In the sheep, there is no appearance of a zone surrounding the tube. T'hese facts, although few in number, are sufficient to prove, that this orifice is not peculiar to the retina of the human eye,; and that its situation in man and in the monkey is the same: in them, it is placed at some distance from the optic nerve; but, in some other animals, its situation is close to that nerve, and it puts on the appearance of a tube, instead of an orifice., There is one circumstance which is curious, and which it will require further information upon this subject to explain; the yellow zone, found in the human eye and that-of the mon' key, is not met with in any other animal. which I have examined. HWsting stated the facts, and also the opinions of other anal toinists, that have come to my knowledge, as well as my own observations, upon this orifice in the retina of the human eye, discovered by Mr. SOEMMERING, and having added to these, several new facts respecting it in other animals, I shall draw somne general conclusions fromn the whole, with a view to show that the conjectures Which have been made, respecting its use, are probably erroneous. I shall afterwards point out.several Mr. HOME'S Account of an Oriflce reasons for considering it as the orifice of a lymphatic vessel intended to carry off the vitiated parts of the vitreous humour and crystalline lens. In the human subject, as no examination can be made for some considerable time after death, it is impossible to ascertain what is the real state of this orifice in the living eye, and what changes take place in it after death; we only learn, that the tinge of yellow surrounding the orifice is very slight, when the eye is examined recently, and that the niext day it becomes much, sdeeper. These points appear to be satisfactorily cleared up, by the examination that was made of the monkey's eye, as it was begun before the parts had lost the appearance belonging to them as living parts. In that state, the retina was transparent, and no orifice could be seen; so that the orifice is rendered visible, by remaining transparent, while the surrounding retina--becomesi-opaque. This appears to decade the dispute between Messrs. SOEMMERING and Buzzi; for, if thispart does not undergo the change peculiar to the retina, we must consider the retina as wanting there. After the orifice-is thus rendered visible,.the yellow tinge is wanting, and does not take place for several hours, and even then is fainter than it becomes afterwards; which appears to be sufficient evidence, that this tinge is the effect of some change after death, and cannot, therefore, have any effectupon vision. The orifice has been supposed to account for a small object becoming invisible, when placed at a certain distance from the eye, and brought opposite a particular part of the retina. This, however, cannot 'be the case, as its situation in the retina does not correspond with the part opposed to the object, when ren* dered invisible. in the Retina of the Eye. The orifice itself is probably too small to produce any defect in vision, as the trunks of the blood-vessels which ramify upon the retina cover a larger space than this-orifice, for a considerable extent, without obstructing the sight of any part of the object. While my observations were confined to the human eye, I was led to consider this orifice as a lymphatic vessel, passing from the vitreous humour through the retina, but could bring no. absolute proof of its being so. This opinion was strengthened by finding, that in the monkey, the orifice was only rendered visible when the retina became opaque; and it has since been corroborated, by a distinct tube being met with in the eyes of sheep and bullocks. fhat a change must be rclonstantly taking place in the crystalline and vitreous humours, to preserve to them the necessary degree of transparency, can hardly be doubted; and that the absorbent vessels which perform that office should have one comm 'oi t;rnk, which -follows tihe course of the artery and vein, perfectly aigrees w-,ith whiat takes -Aace in other parts of the body. In the huma n eye, aind that of the nmonkey, the artery is in the centre of the optic nerve; but that would have been too circutlo, tat coUre for the lvmphatic vessel to follow, and, by going thr'ough the retina, at some dIst-nC e from the nerve, it can pass out of the orbit with1 the bi 'lod-v-essels that go through the foraryuen laceritnl orbitale ineferius. In the bullock and sheep, there is a piexus of vessAls surrou ldi-ng the optic nerve, and the tube disps dow,3 cieste byJ t optic nerve, probably to accompanv threm. Fromn t (l1) 1 rvitjcn s mIa' Ilae be A LICHAELIS, of the yellow Spl)t nlot beingr v isible inl ftusI or in infEants under a year old, s3p+ Mr. HOME'S Account of an Orifce -or -in eyes 'that are blind, also of its being brighter in young people, and paler in old, it would appear, that it is only when the eye is capable of performing its functions, that there is any stain communicated to the retina. EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE (Tab. XVII.) The drawings from which the figures are engraved were made from preparations of the eye lying in water, with a strong light shining upon the preparation. In making the drawings, the principal object was, procuring a distinct view of the parts surrounding the optic nerve, when this could be obtained, the situation of the eye itself was not attended to. Fig. i. A transverse section of the human eye, immediately before the ciliAry processes. The retina is viewed through.the posterior portion of the capsule of the crystalline lens. a. The termination of the optic nerve. b. The aperture in the retina, discovered by Professor SOEMMERING. Fig. 2. A' longitudinal section of the left eye in the human subject, to show the relative situation of the aperture in the retina to the entrance of the optic nerve, and the mode in which it appears to project, when the vitreous humour is disturbed. a. The termination of the optic nerve. b. The aperture in the retina. Fig. 3. A transverse section of the eye of a large monkey, to show the aperture in the retina: its situation is the same as in the human eye. The zone has the appearance of a star with four rays. a. The entrance of the optic nerve. b. The aperture in the retina. in the Retina of the Eye. 34$ Fig. 4. A transverse section of the eye of a bullock, to show that there is a semi-transparent tube projecting from the edge of the entrance of the optic nerve, into the vitreous humour. This tube is surrounded by a zone, with a distinct margin: it is situated on the temporal side of the optic nerve. Fig. 5. A transverse section of the eye of a sheep, to show that there is a similar tube as in the bullock, in the same situation, but much shorter, and without the surrounding zone. MDCCXCVIII. Y y 