VI. A Continuation of an Account of an Essay towards a Natural History of Carolina, and the Bahama Islands; by Mark Catesby, F. R. S. with some Extracts out of the Appendix, * by C. Mortimer, Secret. R. S. 1. URogallus minor, fuscus; cervice plumis alas imitantibus donata. This Bird was about a third Part bigger than a common Partridge, all over of a reddish Brown, marked transversely with black and white waved Lines intermixed; but what is singular and extraordinary in this Bird, and distinguishes it from all others yet known, are two Tufts of Feathers resembling little Wings, 3 Inches long, placed on the hind Part of the Head, opposite to one another. These little Wings (if so they may be called) were fixed, as our Author says, to the Neck, in like manner as the real Wings are to the Body; whereby it had the like Power of contracting and dilating them; and they may X 2 possibly See the Extract of the tenth Set in these Trans. No. 484, p. 599. Read Feb. 18. 1747-8. [158] possibly assist the Bird, in running, or flying, or both, especially as the Wings are short in proportion to its heavy Body. They are Natives of the Northern Parts of America. Lord Wilmington had one of these Birds at Chiswick. Meadia. So called in Honour of Dr. Mead. The Leaves of this Plant resemble those of a Lettuce, from which rises a single Stalk, about a Foot high; on the Summit of which are fixed many rectilinear Footstalks, on every one of which hang pendent a single purple Flower, which is monopetalous, somewhat resembling the Autumn Cyclamen. This is a very ornamental Plant, and flowers yearly at Mr. Collinson's Garden at Peckham. 2. Scolopendra. This is a very venomous Insect, seldom found without the Tropics, being most numerous in the hottest Regions. Their offending Weapon is a Pair of Forceps, armed with two sharp Points, which meet when they bite, and cause a very acute Pain for eight or ten Hours, abating very gradually. Their Bite is said to be as bad as that of the Scorpion. Hamamelis. This Winter-flowering Shrub was sent to the Author from Virginia, and arrived at Christmas, full of yellowish Flowers. 3. Monedula, tota nigra. Hist. Jam. 298. Vol. 2. The Razor-bill'd Black-bird of Jamaica. The singular Make of the Bill of this Bird distinguishes it from others; the upper Mandible being remarkably prominent, rising arch-wise, with a high and very thin Edge. They appear in numerous Flights [159] Flights in Jamaica and Hispaniola voraciously destroying the Grain there, and in other warm Parts of America. Calceolus, flore maximo rubente, purpureis venis notato; foliis amplis hirsutis crenatis; radice Dentis Canini. This Plant produces the most elegant Flower of all the helleborine Tribe; and is in great Esteem with the North American Indians for decking their Hair, &c. They call it the Mocasin Flower, which also signifies in their Language a Shoe or Slipper, and is by these Indians made very like that ancient Slipper or Shoe lately found in the Isle of Axholme in Yorkshire, and shewn to the Society Oct. 22. last *. 4. Vespa Ichneumon tripilis Pensylvaniensis. Rhus glabrum, Panicula speciosa coccinea. Pensylvanian Sumach. This Rhus, for the Resplendency of its scarlet Panicles, excels all others of the Tribe. The Colour begins to appear in July, with a Tincture of Yellow; but as the Fruit ripens, the Scarlet heightens, as appeared by Plants in their full Lustre on the 30th Day of September 1747, in the Author's Garden at Fulham. The Berries that compose the Panicles were thick-set with numerous Filaments or small Threads of a purple or scarlet Colour (best discerned by a Microscope); which receiving a Reflexion from the Yellow, causes this glorious scarlet Colour, which nothing can excel; more especially when the Sun shines upon it. It is a * See these Trans. No. 484, p. 575. [160] a Native of Virginia, but agrees well with our Climate. 5. Pica luteo-nigra varia. The yellow and black Pye. Hist. Jam. p. 301. These Birds in Jamaica are called Bonano Birds; that Fruit being a Part of their Food. They are very sprightly and active Birds, and are often kept in Cages, for their Docility, and antick Gestures. Lilio-Narcissus Polyanthes, flore albo. This bulbose-rooted Plant grows plentifully in the boggy Soil of Georgia. Vespa Ichneumon caerulea. 6. Cacao Arbor. The Cacao or Chocolate Tree. This excellent Tree is found no-where but in America, and there only between the Tropics. 'Tis pity the Culture of this so useful and valuable a Tree should be neglected by us, when the Soil and Climate of all our Sugar Islands is as well adapted to its Growth, as any of the Spanish or French Territories. Notwithstanding which they supply us and all the World with it. Our Author thinks this deserves the Consideration of the Legislature; for were a Method found to encourage its Cultivation, we might not only supply our home Consumption of Chocolate, but come in for a Share of Exportation to foreign Markets. 7. Volubilis siliquosa Mexicana, Plantaginis folio. Hist. Jam. 180. Vol. I. The Vanelloe. With the Fruit of this Plant the Spaniards perfume their Chocolate. 8. [161] 8. Hirundo, cauda aculeata, Americana. The American Swallow. The Singularity of this Bird is, that the Shafts of the Tail Feathers are very stiff, sharp-pointed, and bare of Feathers at their Ends, which seem designed by Nature for the Support of their Bodies, while they are in an erect Posture, building their Nests; which they do in Chimnies, with little Sticks interwoven and cemented together with a kind of Glue or Gum. This Bird arrives and retires from Carolina periodically, and agrees with the Description of Murgravius's Andorinha of Brazil; except that he takes no notice of the Spines in the Tail; which he might probably overlook. Could it be ascertained, that this and Margrave's Andorinha were the same, it would, I think, confirm that most probable Hypothesis, that Birds of Passage (particularly Swallows) pass in our Winter to the same Latitude in the Southern Hemisphere, as the Northern Latitude, from whence they came. Lilium angustifolium, store rubro singulari. The red Pensylvanian Lily This Lily comes from Pen<inferred>sylvanian</inferred>. It agrees with our Climate. 9. Pomifera, sue potius Prunifera Indica, nuce reniformi, summo pomo innascente Cajous vel Acajous dicta. Raii Hist. Cat. Jam. The Cajou or Cassu Tree. This forms a regular-headed handsome Tree, producing beautiful fragrant Flowers succeeded by its ~ ~ and nutritious Fruit, which is also of singular Structure and Beauty: The Stem of the Fruit in [162] is in a most singular manner placed at the Crown of the Fruit on the Outside of the Fruit itself, in Form of a Hare's Kidney, and contains a Kernel of the Size and Taste of an Almond: The Shell inclosing this Kernel is double, and contains an acrimonious caustic inflammable Oil; which, if applied to a tender Part of the Skin, fetches it off. It remains in Linen marked with it, the whole Time of wearing; and is therefore used for that Purpose in the West Indies. 10. Ardea cristata maxima Americana. The largest crested Heron. This is the largest Species of Heron yet known, and is a great Devourer of Lizards, Efts, &c. Stellio aquaticus minor Americanus. The spotted Eft. Pulex minimus, cutem penetrans, Americanus. The Chego. This is smaller than the smallest of our common Fleas; they penetrate the Skin, under which they lay a Bunch or Bag of Eggs, which swell to the Bigness of a small Pea, and give great Pain till it is taken out: To perform which, great Care is required, for fear of breaking the Bag; which endangers a Mortification, and the Loss of a Leg, and sometimes Life itself. Scarabaeus capricornus minimus, cutem penetrans. This odd Insect I saw (says the Author) Governor Phinney, of the Bahama Islands, pick out of his Foot, as he was searching for Chegoes. It was larger than a common Flea; but magnified to 500 times its Size, appeared as here exhibited. Blatta [163] Blatta Americana. The Cock-roach. These are very troublesome and destructive Insects, and are so numerous and voracious, that it is impossible to keep Victuals of any kind from being devoured by them, without close covering. They are flat, and so thin, that few Chests or Boxes can exclude them: They eat not only Leather and Parchment, but Linen and Paper: They disappear in Winter, and are most numerous in the hottest Days in Summer, and commit their Depredations most at Night. Blatta maxima fusca, peltata, non alata. So called from having a sort of Shield over their Head. Scarabaeus peltatus. This Beetle has its Name for the same Reason. II. Scarabaeus pilularis, Americanus. Tumbleturds. This is the most numerous and the most remarkable of the Beetle-Kind of any in North America: The Employment they are always seen at, is providing Nidi for their Eggs; for which they are endowed with the like Sagacity as the Turkey-Buzzard * to find out their Subsistence by the Excellency of their Noses, which directs them in Flights to Excrements just fallen from Man or Beast, on which they instantly drop, and fall unanimously to work, in forming round Pellets thereof, in the middle of which they lay an Egg. These Pellets in September they convey three Feet deep in the Earth, where they lie till the Approach of Spring, when the Eggs become animate, burst their Nests, and find their Way out of the Earth. Mr. Catesby says, he has Y attentively * See this Hist. of Carolina, Vol. I. p. 6. [164] attentively admired their indefatigable Industry, and mutual assisting each other in rolling these globular Balls to the Place of their Interment. This they perform ~ foremost, by raising up their hind Part, and forcing along the Ball with their hind Feet. Two or three are sometimes engaged in trundling one Ball; which often meeting with Impediments by the Unevenness of the Ground, is deserted by them; yet by others is again attempted with Success; except it rolls into a deep Hollow or Chink, where they are necessitated to leave it; repeating the like Action with the next Ball that falls in their Way. No one seems to know his own Ball, but an equal Care for all seems to affect the whole Community. So intent are they at their Work, that tho' handled, or otherwise interrupted, they persist in their aeconomical Employment without Fear or Apprehension of Danger. The Size of this Insect is that of the Figure here exhibited; it is all over of a dusky Black; it has six Legs, two joined to the Thorax, and four to the Abdomen. There are always accompanying these abovemention'd some larger ones, of a more elegant Structure and Colour, which are much less numerous, being about one in twenty to the other. The Thorax of this is cover'd with a Shield, of a crimsoncolour'd metallic Lustre; the Head of the like Colour, blended with Green; on the Crown of the Head stands a shining black Horn, recurved backward, &c. These are commonly called King-Tumble-turds; tho', by what appears, they assume no Pre-eminence; but, without Distinction, partake of the like dirty Drudgery with the rest. Lilium, [165] Lilium, sive Martagon Canadense, floribus magis flavis non reflexis. The Canada Martagon. These Plants have flower'd several Years in Mr. Collinson's Garden at Peckham. 12. Perdix sylvestris, Virginiana. The American Partridge. This is about half the Size of the Perdix cinerea, or common Partridge, but much more elegantly colour'd. These, contrary to ours, are not often found in open Fields, but mostly frequent Woods, and shady Swamps; their Flesh is remarkably white, and well-tasted, but of a different Flavour from ours. When raised, they perch on the Boughs of Trees. Lilio-Narcissus, Virginiensis. Park. The Attamusco Lily. This Plant is a Native of Virginia and Carolina, 13. Steuartia. This elegant Shrub is so called in Compliment to the Earl of Bute, whose Family Name is Steuart. It flower'd in the Author's Garden at Fulham in May 1742. It is nearly akin to the Shrub-Mallows. Regulus cristatus. The crested Wren. It is very remarkable, that this being the smallest of all our English Birds, is also found in America. Vespa Ichneumon, of a yellowish brown Colour. 14. Avis Tropicorum. The Tropic Bird. The Name of these Birds seems to imply the Limits of their Abode; for they are not often seen much North or South of the Tropics; yet are they seen all over the Ocean within those Limits, from Y 2 the [166] the Continent of the Old to the New World, and are very remarkable and different from all other Birds, in having a Tail consisting only of two very long narrow Feathers. The whole Bird is white, except the Bill and Legs and Feet, which are red, and about the Eyes, and near the Tips of the Wings are Spots of Black. Larus minimus, marinus, naribus tubulatis. The Pittrel or Storm-Fink. This is a Sea-Bird, no bigger than a Sparrow, and is remarkable for being the smallest of all Birds that are web-footed. Their Appearance is generally believed by Mariners to prognosticate a Storm, or bad Weather. They use their Wings and Feet with surprizing Celerity: Tho' their Feet are formed for Swimming, they are likewise so for Running, which Use they seem to put them to; being oftenest seen in the Action of running swiftly on the Surface of the Waves in their greatest Agitation, but with the Assistance of their Wings. The Author has seen them oftenest in bad Weather. 15. Magnolia, flore albo, folio majore acuminato haud albicante. This is the fourth and last-discovered Species of that elegant Tribe of Trees the Magnolia. Some Seeds of it with Specimens were sent me from the only Tree of it known in Virginia. Its majestic and elegant Appearance excites many People far and near to visit Kit Smith's Tree; that being the Name it has attain'd, and is known from the Name of the Man in whose Land it grows. This Tree, tho' scarce in Virginia, has been since found to grow [167] grow in great Plenty in the NorthWest Parts of Pensylvania. Formica villosa coccinea. The Velvet-Ant. This Insect is shaped like an Ant, and is about the Size of a Hornet. The Body is elegantly marked with black and crimson Velvet. The Thorax is of so strong and hard a Contexture, that, being trod upon by Men or Cattle, they receive no Harm. They have a long Sting in their Tails, which causes Inflammation and great Pain to those who are stung. 16. Caprimulgus minor Americanus. The Whippoor Will. This nocturnal Bird is about the Size of a Blackbird. It has the smallest Bill, and widest Mouth, of any other Bird, in proportion to its Size; it hides itself in the Day, and is then never seen, but at the Dusk of the Evening he sets up his Cry, repeating it incessantly, till Break of Day, making a very loud and shrill Noise, which the Echoes from the Rocks, and Sides of Mountains, increase to such a Degree, that the Silence of the Night is much interrupted thereby. Their Cry is like the Sound of the Pronunciation of the Words Whip-poor-Will. The Indians say, these Birds were never known till a great Massacre was made of their Country Folks by the English; and that they are Souls or departed Spirits of the massacred Indians. Abundance of People look upon them as Birds of ill Omen, and are very melancholy, if one of them happens to light upon their House, or near their Door, and set up his Cry (as they will sometimes upon [168] upon the very Threshold). Such are the Superstitions of these ignorant People. Aureliana Canadensis. R. P. Lafiteau. The Ginseng, or Ninsin of the Chinese. Ginseng is the Root of a Plant of the highest Esteem with the Chinese for its medicinal Virtues; and many Volumes have been wrote by their most celebrated Physicians, to illustrate its wonderful Effects. Tho' most of the Writers of China take notice of the Ginseng, yet it was little known, till Father Jartoux, a Jesuit and Missionary in China, who being employed by Order of the Emperor of China in making a Map of Tartary in the Year 1709. had an Opportunity of seeing it growing on the Confines of the Kingdom of Corea. That Father took an Opportunity to make a Draught of the Plant, and give an accurate Description thereof; which being published in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, gave Light to the Discovery of the same Plant in Canada and Pensilvania; from which last Place it was sent to Mr. Collinson, in whose curious Garden at Peckham it has the preceding, and also this Year 1746, produced its Blossoms and Berries, as it appears in the Figure here exhibited, and agrees so exactly to the Father's Description of the Chinese Ginseng, that no Doubt can be made of its being the very Species he describes. But as the Jesuit's Account is too long to be inserted the Author has only given an Abstract of it, and added to his Figure the Blossoms which the Father owns he never saw. This concludes the whole Number of Birds exhibited in both Volumes, containing in all 4 113 [169] 113; in which are also contained all the Land Birds Mr. Catesby ever saw or could discover in that Part of North America included between the 30th and 45th Degrees of Latitude. And tho' more Kinds may not improbably remain unknown within those Limits, yet North of them he thinks there cannot reasonably be thought to be many new Species; because there are not only but a few Birds at the Northern Limits, but also because Animals in general, and particularly Birds, diminish in Number of Species, as they approach the Pole. 17. Chamaerhododendron Lauri folio, semper virescens, floribus bullatis corymbosis. This Tree riseth to the Height of about sixteen Feet, producing ever-green Leaves, in Shape like the Lauro cerasus, of a shining Dark-green; the Flowers grow in Bunches, the Bud or Rudiment of which appears in Autumn wrapped up in a conic scaly Perianthium, on which is a viscous Matter, which protects them from the Severity of the Cold in Winter. In the Spring these Buds break forth into monopetalous blush-colour'd Flowers, with some of its Petals spotted with yellow, green, and purple. The whole Plant is of a most elegant Appearance: Its native Place is Pensilvania. Chamaedaphne sempervirens, foliis oblongis angustis, foliorum fasciculis oppositis e foliorum alis. This Plant is a Native of Pensilvania, but has flower'd at Peckham in September 1743. 18. [170] 18. Lepus Javensis. The Java Hare. It is about the Size of an ordinary Hare; the Head small, in proportion to the Body; the Eyes large and prominent; the Ears like those of a Rat; except which, the Head partook of a Likeness both of a Deer and a Hare; the hind Part of the Body remarkably big. Ficus, Citri folio, fructu parvo purpureo. This is one of those kind of Trees mention'd by Q. Curtius, lib. ix. c. 1. 19. Vipera marina. The Viper-Mouth. This Fish was 18 Inches long: But as Fish are not (as Quadrupeds) of a determinated Size, so these are said sometimes to grow to a vast Bigness. The Mouth was excessive wide: Both Jaws were armed with sharp destructive Teeth; particularly two in each Jaw were much longer than the rest, so that they could not be admitted within the Mouth. Most of these long Teeth had an angular bending towards their Ends in a very singular manner. It was without Scales, mark'd all over with hexagonal Divisions. This Fish was of the oddest Structure, and most formidable Appearance, of any the Author ever saw. It came from Gibraltar, and was taken in the Harbour there, and is now in Sir Hans Sloane's Museum. Cataphractus Americanus. The Armour-Fish. This Fish was somewhat less than a Foot in Length, and four Inches broad; a small Part of the Belly was cartilaginous; except which the whole Fish was cover'd with hard thick Bone, but in a different manner; viz. the Head and fore Part of the Fish was [171] was also cover'd with Plates of Bone, extending from the Back to the Belly, and lapping one over another. It was armed with three strong pointed Bones, thick-set, or rather serrated with Teeth, one placed near the Back, and one near each Gill. These Bones were three Inches long, and so fixed in Sockets, that the Fish can point them to any Direction, in Defence of itself. This Fish having no Teeth for Defence, Nature seems to have compensated that Deficiency, by bestowing on him Weapons and Armour in a very extraordinary manner. It was given by Captain Wm. Walker, F. R. S. to Sir Hans Sloane. 20. Bison Americanus. This is the only Species of the wild Cow-kind that is known in North America; there being none of our Cow-kind there, till brought over from Europe. They are low of Stature, but weigh more than our largest Oxen: The Skin of one is too heavy for the strongest Man to lift from the Ground: Their Limbs are large, their Chests broad, as are their Heads; their Horns are large at their Basis, and turn inward; on their Shoulders is a large Prominence or Bunch; in Winter their whole Body is covered with long shaggy Hair, which in Summer falls off, and the Skin appears black and wrinkled; except the Head, which retains the Hair on all the Year. On the Forehead of a Bull the Hair is so long, that, by hanging over his Eyes, it impedes his Flight, and is frequently the Cause of his Destruction. But this Obstruction of Sight is in some measure supplied by his good Nose, which is no small Safeguard to Z him. [172] him. A Bull in Summer, with his Body bare, and his Head mussled with long Hair, makes a very formidable Appearance. They range in Droves, feeding in open Savanna's Morning and Evening; and in the sultry Time of the Day they retire to shady Rivulets, and Streams of clear Water, gliding through Thickets of tall Canes; which, tho' a hidden Retreat, yet their heavy Bodies causing a deep Impression of their Feet in moist Land, they are often traced and shot by the artful Indians. When wounded, they are very furious; which cautions the Indians how they attack them in open Savanna's, where no Trees are to screen them from their Fury. Their Hoofs more than their Horns are their offensive Weapons; and whatever opposes them are in no small Danger of being trampled into the Earth. Their Flesh is very good, of a high Flavour, and differs from common Beef, as Venison from Mutton. The Bunch on their Shoulders is esteemed by the Indians the most delicate Part of them. Pseudo-Acacia hispida, floribus roseis. The Flowers and Leaves of this Tree differ little in their Shape from the Pseudo-Acacia flore albo. The Stalks and larger Branches are thick-set with prickly Hairs, and with sharp Spines, placed alternately: The Flowers, which are papilionaceous, are of a faint purple or rose Colour, and of a fragrant Smell. I never saw any of these Trees but at one Place near the Apalatchian Mountains, where Buffaloes had left their Dung, and had been brouzing on the Leaves. What with the bright Verdure of the Leaves, and the Beauty of the Flowers, few Trees make a more elegant Appearance. Thus [173] Thus ends the most magnificent Work I know of, since the Art of Printing has been discover'd: The Descriptions are all given in both English and French; and the Figures being drawn by the ingenious Author after Life, were afterwards etched by himself, and all the illuminated Sets were colour'd under his Directions, and all touch'd up and finish'd by his own Hand. 