[185] XXV. A Letter to the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, F. R. S. Astronomer Royal, from Mr. Bailly, of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris: Containing a Proposal of some new Methods of improving the Theory of Jupiter's Satellites. Translated from the French, with the Original underneath. S I R, T H O U G H I have not the honour of being personally known to you, I flatter myself, you will excuse the liberty I have taken, of communicating to you two methods, of my invention, for perfecting the theory of the satellites of Jupiter. The former of these methods serves to measure their diameters, and the latter is intended to make the observations comparable with each other, though made in different places, and with different instruments. As my intention has been Read Feb. 18 and 25, 1773. Monsieur, Quoique je n'aye pas l'honneur d'etre connu de vous, je pense, que vous ne trouverez pas mauvais, que je prenne la liberte de vous communiquer deux methodes, que j'ai imaginees, pour perfectionner la theorie des satellites de Jupiter. La premiere de ces n ethodes sert a mesurer leur diametre, et la seconde a pour objet de rendre les observations comparables, soit quelles ~ ete faites en differens lieux et avec differens instruments<inferred>Mom</inferred> [186] been to make these methods useful, I cannot do better, than submit them to the best judges. Your reputation, Sir, engages me, to lay them before you, and to beg you would examine them: flattered as I should be with your approbation, I shall receive, with great gratitude, whatever criticisms they may hapen to suggest. Observation must determine, whether, by this method, it will be possible to arrive at an agreement, which hitherto has been wished for, without being attained. You know, that the observations of the eclipses of the third and fourth satellites, made by different observers, vary from each other 3, 4, and 5 minutes, and sometimes more; and that there is even a pretty sensible difference in those of the second. In the 38th page of the preface to my Essay on the Theory of the Satellites, which has been presented to the Royal Society, I mentioned the inequality discovered by Mr. de Fouchy, and I suggested, that the perfecting Mont but a e e que ces u e:hodes soient utiles; je ne puis mieux faire, que de les ~ aux meilleurs juges. Votre reputation, Monsieur, ~ a vous les detailler, et a vous prier de les examiner: votre ~ me flatterait ~, mais je recevrai toujours avec reconnoissance les reflections critiques que ees ~ hodes pourront vous ~. Les observations vous seront connoitre si par cette methode on peut ~ a un accotd que l'on a ~ i e jusques ici sans ~ ~. Vous ~, que les eclipses du troisieme et du ~ satel~, ~ ~ differens observateurs, different ~ de 3, 4, 5 minutes et ~ plus; et que celles du second different ~ assez ~. Dans ~ sur la Theorie des Satelites, dont j'ai ~ ~ ala Societe r ~, je ~ dans la preface, page xxxviii, de ~ ~ par Mr. de Fouchy, et ~~, [187] ing of this theory might perhaps depend upon the quantity of this inequality, which Mr. de Fouchy has not determined, not having been at leisure, to resume the subject, since the year 1732. The segment of the disc, which is not eclipsed, when the satellite disappears, must vary in the proportion of the squares of the distances of Jupiter from the Sun, and from the Earth. This is what a little reflection will make evident to every one, and this is the first cause of the inequality. Since Mr. de Fouchy's observation, it has been discovered, that the light of the satellite likewise decreases, in proportion to the proximity of Jupiter's disc; the brightness of the planet weakens that of the satellite, and, for this reason, the eclipses, which happen too near the opposition [of Jupiter to the Sun], are looked upon as defective. Besides, the light of Jupiter, as well as that of his satellites, is different, in his different noncais, que la perfection de cette theorie dependrait peut etre de la quantite de cette inegalite, que Mr. de Fouchy n'a point determinee; il n'a pu s'en occuper depuis 1732. Il resulte de la consideration du segment du disque, qui n'est pas eclipse, quand le satellite disparait, que ce segment varie en raison [inverse] des quarres de la distance de Jupiter au Soleil, et de la distance de Jupiter a la Terre. Voila la premiere cause d'inegalite. Depuis Mr. de Fouchy, on s'est appercu que la lumiere du satellite diminuoit encore en raison de la proximite du disque de Jupiter; l'eclat de la planete efface celui du satellite, c'est pour cette raison que les eclipses, qui arrivent trop pres de l'opposition, sont regardees comme defectueuses. De plus, la hauteur de Jupiter sur l'horison contribue aussi a affoiblir sa lumiere, et celle de ses saV O L. LXIII. C c tellites; [188] different elevations above the horizon: when the planet is low, more rays of light are lost, in their passage through a thicker atmosphere; and whenever the light is less, the segment, which is not eclipsed when the satellite disappears, and which I call the insensible segment, increases, and occasions another inequality in the moment of the eclipses; lastly, the power of the telescopes, or their aperture, which, according as it is greater or less, gives more or less light, contributes to the variation of this segment. Here then are four causes of inequality, which I reduce to one principle, and the following is the scope of my researches. When the satellite disappears, there is certainly a segment of its disc which remains uneclipsed; the magnitude of this varies, on account of the four causes just mentioned; thence it follows, that tellites: quand cette planete est peu elevee, il se perd plus de raions en traversant une atmosphere plus epaisse; or, toutes les fois que la lumiere diminue, le segment, qui n'est pas eclipse quand le satellite disparait, ce segment que j'appelle le segment insensible, augmente, et il en resulte une autre inegalite dans le moment des eclipses; la force des lunettes, ou leur ouverture qui, lors qu'elle est plus ou moins grande, fournit plus ou moins de lumiere, contribue encore a faire varier ce segment. Voila donc quatre causes d'inegalites, que je ramene a un meme principe, et quant a mes recherches, voici ce dont il est question. Quand le satellite disparait, il y a certainement un segment de son disque qui n'est pas eclipse. La grandeur de ce segment varie en raison des quatre causes que nous venons d'etablir. D'ou il resulte, que [189] that if in one eclipse the segment is A B D, and in d another A b d, when the D satellite disappears in the second eclipse, it will have got less into the shade, by a part of its diameter B b; which part B b, therefore, must be the value of the A B b equation between the two eclipses. Now, if we call A b, a; A B, b, the radius of the disc of the satellite r, the semidiameter of the shadow taken from the tables R, and the total duration of the eclipse d, the time taken up in going over Bb, or the equation (a), will be 2 R r (a b)/d, which contains three unknown quantitites, to wit, the versed sines a and b, of the two invisible segments, and the semidiameter of the disc of the satellite: que si pour une eclipse ce segment est A B D, et que pour une autre eclipse il soit A b d, dans cette seconde eclipse, quand le satellite disparaitra, il sera moins entre dans l'ombre, d'une partie B b de son diametre, laquelle partie B b est la valeur de l'equation entre ces deux eclipses. On trouve facilement que si l'on nomme A b, a; A B, b, le raion du disque du satellite r, le demi diametre de l'ombre tire des tables R, et la duree entiere de l'eclipse d; le tems emploie a parcourir B b, ou l'equation, sera 2 R r (a-b)/d. Cette expression contient trois inconnues, les sinus verses a et b des deux segmens invisibles, et le demi diametre r du disque du satellite. Car vous savez, C c 2 Monsieur, [190] tellite: for you know, Sir, that there is nothing to be depended on, in all that has been done upon the diameters of the satellites by Cassini, Whiston, and Maraldi. The following is the way which I have taken, to determine these unknown quantities. I observe, first of all, that two of them, a and b, are reducible to one; because, as you will see presently, the two segments are always in a known proportion [to the whole disc of the satellite, as well as to each other]; and consequently, the proportion of their versed sines, Ab, A B, may be obtained, either by calculation, or by a table made for the purpose. In order to discover it, considering that when the satellite disappears, it is from the diminution of its light, I conceived, that one might contrive to imitate, at any time, what happens in the eclipses, by diminishing the light. I have an achromatic telescope of five feet length, and 24 lines aperture. I made some diaphragms of pasteboard, which I could apply on the Monsieur, tout ce qui a ete fait sur les diametres des satellites par Cassini, Whiston, et Mr. Maraldi, et vous savez qu'il n'y a rien sur quoi on puisse compter. Voici comment je suis parvenu a les determiner. Je remarque d'abord que les deux inconnues, a, b, se reduisent a une seule, parceque, comme vous le verrez tout a l'heure, les deux segmens sont toujours dans un rapport connu, et consequemment par le calcul ou par une table dressee expres, on a le rapport de leurs sinus verses A b, A B. Pour les connaitre, k'ai vu que quand le satellite disparait, c'est par la diminution de sa lumiere, et j'ai pense, qu'a tous les momens on pouvait imiter, d'une maniere factice, ce qui arrive dans les eclipses, en diminuant la lumiere du satellite. J'ai une lunette achromatique de 5 pieds, qui porte 24 lignes ~. J'ai taille des diaphragmes de carton, que je pouvais appliquer [191] the outside of my object-glass, the openings of which lessened, by half-lines successively, from twenty-four lines down to three. In fine weather, I applied these sucessively to my object-glass, and endeavoured to find out, whether, by trying from the greatest to the less, some one of them could not be found, that would make the satellite disappear. My success in this gave me great satisfaction. One day, for instance, the third satellite disappeared, when the opening was reduced to three lines, and the first, when it was reduced to six only; and as, in the telescopes, the quantity of light is in the proportion of the squares of the apertures, I concluded, that the 64th part of the light of the third satellite, and the 16th of the first, were insensible; whence it follows, that if, at the instant of an eclipse of the first satellite, the sixteenth part of its light is insensible, the invisible segment A B D will be likewise a sixteenth part of the disc; and thence it will be easy to compute appliquer exterieurement sur mon objectif, et dont les ouvertures diminuaient de demie ligne, depuis 24 lignes jusqu'a 3. Par un beau tems, j'ai place successivement sur mon objectif tous ces diaphragmes, et j'ai cherche, si en passant toujours des plus grands aux plus petits, il n'y en aurait pas quelqu'un, qui fit disparaitre le satellite; et j'ai reussi avec une grande satisfaction. Un certain jour, par exemple, le troisieme satellite disparut, lorsque l'ouverture fut reduite a trois lignes, et le premier, lorsque l'ouverture fut reduite a six seulement. Comme dans les lunettes la lumiere est dans le rapport du quarre des ouvertures, j'en ai conclu que la 64me partie de la lumiere du troisieme, et la seizieme du premier etaient insensibles: d'ou il resulte, que si dans le moment d'une eclipse du premier satellite la seizieme partie de sa lumiere est insensible, le segment invisible A B D sera aussi la seizieme partie du disque, d'ou il est aise de calculer le sinus verse [192] compute the versed sine A B. In these first observations, I took care to chuse the time, when the satellite was at its greatest elongation; for the insensible part increases prodigiously, and sometimes amounts to a third of the disc, when the satellite is very near the edge of Jupiter. This variation is much larger, than that which takes place, in consequence of the distance of Jupiter from the opposition to the Sun, and contrary to it. As it is scarce possible to estimate the law of the variations of this segment, occasioned by the proximity of the disc of Jupiter, I judged, that they ought to be determined by observation. Accordingly, I followed the satellite from the edge of the disc of Jupiter, to the farthest limit of its eclipses, that is, with respect to the first, to the distance of two semidiameters of Jupiter. Having thus several points by observation, I got the rest bv interpolation, and made a table of the variations of the invisible segment, verse A B. J'avais eu soin dans ces premieres observations, de choisir le tems ou le satellite etait dans ses plus grandes digressions. Car cette partie insensible augmente prodigieusement, et devient quelquefois le tiers du disque, lorsque le satellite est sort pres du bord de Jupiter. Cette variation est contraire et beaucoup plus grande que celle qui a lieu en vertu de la distance a l'opposition. Comme on ne peut gueres estimer la loi que suivent les variations de ce segment, a raison de sa proximite du disque de Jupiter, j'ai juge qu'il falloit determiner ces variations par observations. J'ai donc suivi le satellite depuis le bord du disque de Jupiter, jusqu'au terme le plus eloigne de ses eclipses, c'est a dire, a l'egard du premier, jusqu'environ a la distance de deux demi diametres de Jupiter. Ayant obtenu ainsi plusieurs points donnes par observation, j'ai eu les autres par interpolation, et j'ai dresse une table des variatitions du segment invisible, qui dependent de la distance au bord de [193] ment, which depend upon the distance from the edge of Jupiter; a similar table I likewise, made for each of the three first satellites; but have not yet been able, to make sufficient observations on the fourth. These tables are contained in a long paper of mine, which will be published in the volume of our Academy for 1771; but, if you please, I will send them to you. These segments being known, it is clear, that, besides their variations occasioned by the distance of the satellite from the edge of Jupiter, they will be liable to others. First, In consequence of the change of Jupiter's distances, both from the Sun and from the Earth. Upon this account, the magnitudes of these segments being known, for a particular epoch *, those known magnitudes must be multiplied by m2 n2/p2 q2, to determine the magnitude of the segment at any other time. In which expression, p and q stand for the di* Known, by the author's tables, for any distance of the satellite from the edge of Jupiter, at the particular epoch to which the tables are adapted. stances de Jupiter; j'ai dresse une pareille table pour chacun des trois premiers satellites; je n'ai pu observer encore, comme il faut, le quatrieme. Si vous desirez ces tables, Monsieur, je vous les envoyerai. Elles sont dans un long memoire, qui sera imprime parmi ceux de l'Academie pour 1771. Ces segmens etant une fois connus, il est clair, qu'outre les variations que ces segmens subissent, en vertu de la distance du satellite au bord de Jupiter, ils varieront encore. 1~. En vertu de la distance de Jupiter au Soleil, et de Jupiter a la Terre. Il faudra donc multiplier ces segmens, connus pour une certaine epoque, par m m n n/p p q q, en supposant que p et q aient ete les distances 3 [194] stances of Jupiter from the Sun and from the Earth respectively, at the given epoch, and m and n for the distances, at the other time, for which the value of the invisible segment is required. 2dly, There will be other variations depending on Jupiter's height above the horizon. The segments which I have observed, have all been reduced to the constant height of 15~. Mr. Bouguer, in his Optics, has given a table of the degrees of light of the planets, at their different elevations above the horizon, which, from my own observations, I have found to be very exact, and useful for the present purpose. Now, as the segments are in the inverse ratio of the numbers of this table, putting g for the number corresponding to the elevation of 15~, and h for the number corresponding to any other elevation, the segments must be multiplied by g/h. 3dly, These segments will yet be subject to another variation depending on the aperture of the telescope. It is certain that a larger stances de Jupiter au Soleil et a la Terre, au moment de cette epoque, et m, n, les distances de Jupiter au Soleil et a la Terre, au moment pour lequel on voudra connaitre le segment invisible. 2. En vertu de la hauteur de Jupiter sur l'horison. Les segmens, que j'ai observes, ont ete tous reduits a la hauteur constante de 15~. Mr. Bouguer a donne, dans son Optique, une table des degres de la lumiere des planetes, a differentes hauteurs sur l'horison; je me suis assure, par des observations, qu'elle est tres exacte, et tres utile dans la recherche presente. Les segmens sont on raison inverse des nombres de cette table: soit donc pour 15~ ce nombre g, et pour une hauteur quelconque soit ce nombre h, il faudra multiplier les segmens par g/h. 3. En vertu de l'ouverture de la lunette. Il est certain qu'une ouverture plus grande 7 donnant [195] larger aperture giving more light, the insensible part of the disk must be smaller; and it seems demonstrable by theory, that this insensible part, or the invisible segments, must be inversely as the squares of the apertures. I resolved, however, to assure myself of this by experiment. For this purpose, I carried my telescope to Mr. Messier's observatory, who has one of Dollond's telescopes, of three feet and a half length, and forty lines aperture. On the 20th of August 1771, he saw the second satellite disappear in his telescope, through an aperture of three lines. The same satellite disappeared in mine, when the aperture was reduced to the same quantity of three lines, and not before. We changed instruments, and, repeating the experiment, found the same effect. Now, the insensible part was 9/1600 of the disc, in Mr. Messier's instrument, and 9/576 in mine. These portions, therefore, in these telescopes, were in the inverse proportion of the squares of the apertures. donnant plus de lumiere, la partie insensible du disque doit etre plus petite, et il parait demontre, par la theorie, que, dans differentes lunettes, cette partie insensible, ou les segmens invisibles doivent etre en raison inverse des quarres des ouvertures; mais j'ai voulu m'en assurer par l'experience. Je me suis transporte chez Mr. Messier avec ma lunette; il en a une de Mr. Dollond, de trois pieds et demi, qui porte 40 lignes d'ouverture. Le 20 Aout 1771, il a vu disparaitre, dans sa lunette, le second satellite, par une ouverture de 3 lignes. Le meme satellite n'a disparu, dans la mienne, que par une ouverture egalement de 3 lignes. Nous avons repete la meme experience, en troquant d'instrumens, et nous avons trouve les memes resultats. Or, dans la lunette de Mr. Messier, la portion insensible etait 9/1600 me du disque, et dans la mienne 9/576. Ces portions, dans ces lunettes, etaient donc en raison inverse des quarres des ouvertures. V O L. LXIII. D d ainsi, [196] apertures. Consequently, in order to determine the segments for an aperture of any number of lines k, the segments of my table, which are all calculated for an aperture of 24 lines, must be multiplyed by 576/k2. Hence, to compute the invisible segment for any particular eclipse, the actual distance of the satellite from the edge of Jupiter being known, look for the quantity of the invisible segment, which answers to that distance, in my table, and multiply this quantity by m2 n2/p2 q2 X g/h X 576/k2. If two different observations made in the same place, or rather two observations, made in different places by different observers, are to be compared, the invisible segment must be determined, such as it was for each observer; A B and A b, the versed sines of these segments, ainsi, mes segmens ayant e e determines pour une ouverture de 24 lignes, si on veut les avoir, pour une lunette, dont l'ouverture aura un nombre de lignes exprime par k, il faudra multiplier ces segmens par 576/k2. Donc, quand on voudra calculer le segment invisible, qui aura lieu pour le moment d'une certaine eclipse, au moien de la distance actuelle du satellite au bord de Jupiter, on cherchera, dans mes tables, le segment invisible, qui y repond, et on le multipliera par m2 n2/p2 q2 X g/h X 576/k2. Si on veut comparer ensemble deux observations differentes, ou plutot, si on veut comparer deux observations faites en differens lieux par deux observateurs differens, on determinera le segment invisible, qui a lieu pour chacun de ces observateurs: on calculera les sinus verses A b et A B de ces deux segmens, et dans l'expression 2 R r (a b)/d [197] segments, must be computed, and in the expression 2 R r (a b)/d, the only remaining unknown quantity, will be r. The following is the method I have hit upon for determining it. I considered, that, by trying different diaphragms successively, some few minutes before an immersion, it would be easy to find out the particular size, which would make the satellite disappear; and that the proportion of the invisible segment to the whole disc of the satellite, for that instant, would, by that means, be determined. Suppose then that I have found this diaphragm: my next step is, to cover the object-glass of my telescope with a diaphragm somewhat larger, which suffers me just to perceive the satellite, but so weak and small, that the least further diminution of its light must render it invisible. I wait till it actually disappears; I write down this time, then take away the diaphragm, and the number of seconds, which pass betwixt this first disappearance and the 2 R r (a b)/d, on n'aura plus d'autre inconnue que r. Voici la methode que j'ai imaginee pour la determiner. J'ai pense, que si quelques minutes avant une immersion, on ~ differens diaphragmes, jusqu'a ce qu'on ait trouve celui, qui fait disparaitre le satellite, on aurait, pour ce moment, le rapport du segment invisible au disque entier du satellite. Ce diaphragme etant connu, je couvre ensuite l'objectif de ma lunette d'un diaphragme un peu plus grand, qui me laisse appercevoir le satellite, mais faible et tres petit, de maniere que ce satellite cessera d'etre visible des que sa lumiere sera tant soit peu diminuee. J'attends qu'il disparaisse, [et je suis ainsi averti du moment ou il commence a toucher l'ombre] (b) je marque cet instant, j'enleve le diaphragme, et le nombre de secondes ecoule, entre cette premiere disparition D d 2 et [198] the true immersion, giving me a great part of the diameter, I easily compute the whole. The following is an example of my method. On the 26th of June 1771, there was an immersion of the third satellite, at 56~ after nine in the evening. I found the diaphragm, which made the satellite disappear, to be of 12 lines. Then I fitted my glass with a diaphragm of 17 lines; I might have taken one much smaller: presently the satellite disappears. But removing the diaphragm, I see the satellite again, very distinctly, for 2~ 18~; after which, the true immersion followed. Now, this is my calculation. The aperture of the diaphragm, which made the satellite disappear, being 12 lines by observation, the invisible segment at the instant of the eclipse, must have been a quarter of the disc. Let A B D be this quarter. I know that, at the instant of the immersion, the satellite had entered the shade, by the whole part E F of its diameter. I say then, if on an aperture of 24 lines, the part A B D is insensible, the insensible part, on an aperD d N A K I E C P F B l M et la veritable immersion, me donne la mesure d'une grande partie du diametre, d'ou il est aise de conclure le diametre entier. Voici un exemple de la methode. Le 26 Juin, 1771, a 9 h. 56~ du soir, il y avait une immersion du troisieme satellite. J'ai determine de 12 lignes le diaphragme qui faisait disparaitre le satellite. J'ai garni ma lunette d'un diaphragme de 17 lignes (je l'aurais pu prendre beaucoup moins ouvert) j'ai vu disparaitre le satellite, j'ai ote le diaphragme, j'ai revu, tres distinctement, le satellite pendant 2~ 18~, apres quoi s'est faite la veritable immersion. Voici le calcul. J'apprends, par l'observation du diaphragme [199] aperture of 17 lines, will be larger than A B D, in the proportion of the square of 24 to the square of 17. Saying, then as 172: 242:: 0, 25000:: x, x comes out = 0,49827, or near half the disc represented by unity; thence I see that, at the instant of the first disappearance, the satellite had not gone in farther than K. Putting the radius A C = I, the versed sines A E, A K will be = 0,59602 and 0,99884; consequently, E K = 0,40282. Substitute this value of E K, instead of a b, in the expression 2 R x r (a-b)/d, and you will have 2 Rr x 0,40282/d = 2~ 18~, and r = 5~ 23~ of time, will be the semidiameter of the satellite, or, the whole diameter will be 22~ 34~ [of the satellite's orbit, considered as a circle, or, would be seen, under an angle of this quantity, from Jupiter's centre]. In this observation, as I have already phragme de 12 lignes, qu'au moment de l'eclipse le segment invisible a du etre le quart du disque: soit A B D le quart du disque; je suis sur, qu'au moment de l'immersion, le satellite etait entre dans l'ombre, de toute la partie E F de son diametre. Je dis ensuite, si pour une ouverture de 24 lignes la partie A B D est insensible, cette partie doit devenir plus grande pour une ouverture de 17 lignes; et elle doit augmenter dans le rapport du quarre de 17 au quarre de 24: faisant donc comme 172: 242:: 0,25000: x on trouve x = 0,49827, ou pres de la moitie du disque, represente par l'unite. Je vois donc, qu'au moment de la premiere disparition le satellite n'etait entre encore que jusqu'en K. en supposant le raion A C = I, on trouve les linus verses A E, A K egaux a 0,59602, et 0,99884: par consequent, E K = 0,40282. Si l'on substitue, pour a b, cette valeur de E K, dans la formule 2 R r (a b),/d on aura 2 R r x 0,40282/d = 2~ 18~: d'ou l'on tire r = 5~ 23~ de tems, pour le demi diametre du satellite, ou 22~ 34~ de degres, pour le diametre entier. Dans cette observation, comme je l'ai deja remarque, [200] ready said, I used a diaphragm with too great an opening (c), for the first disappearance. Take then a second observation. On the first of August 1771, there was an emersion of the third satellite, about 15~ after nine. I marked the instant of this emersion; then I furnished my telescope with a diaphragm of 8 lines. The satellite disappeared, and did not begin to appear again till at the end of 6~ 24~. Some minutes after, when it was quite come out of the shadow, I measured the diaphragm, which would make it disappear, and found it of 7 lines. These 7 lines give a segment A B D of 0,08507. Then saying 82 : 242:: 0,08507: x; x, or the segment A N M, comes out = 0,76562, A E = 0,27994, A P = 1,43098, and E P = 1,15104. Therefore 2 R r x 1,15104/d = 6~ 24~. From this equation r comes out, 5~ 20~, and the whole diameter 22~ 22~, [in parts of the circular orbit]. These two conclusions agree so marque, j'avais emploie un diaphragme d'une trop grande ouverture, pour la premiere disparition. Voici une seconde observation: Le 1 Aout 1771, a 9 h. 15~, il y avait une emersion du troi~. Je marquai l'instant de cette emersion, ensuite je garnis ina lunette d'un diaphragme de 8 lignes: le satellite disparut, et il ne commenca a reparaitre qu'au bout de 6~ 24~; quelques minutes apres, etant tout a fait sorti de l'ombre, je mesurai le daiphragme qui le faisait disparaitre, il se trouva de 7 lignes. 7 lignes donnent un segment A B D de 0,08507. Faisant ensuite 82: 242:: 0,08507: x, on trouve x ou le segment A N M = 0,76562: on trouve A E = 0,27994, A P = 1,43098, et E P = 1,15104. On a donc la formule 2 R r x 1,15104/d = 6~ 24~: d'ou l'on tire r = 5~ 20~, et lediametre entier, en degres de 22~ 22~. Ces deux resultats s'accordent merveilleusement 6 bien, [201] so perfectly well with each other, that, if I am not too fond of my own work, I may venture to say, the method, I have invented, may be carried to great exactness. I hope you will have the goodness to give me your opinion of it, which I have the greatest respect for, and will be very useful to me, especially if you have leisure to repeat the observations. I shall take the liberty to subjoin a few hints, upon the manner of making them, at the end of this letter. The diameter of the first satellite I have determined by three observations as follows: 1771, ' '' o ' '' as An Immersion June 30, 7 17 1 1 45 seen Emersion Aug. 1, gave 7 3 0 59 46 from Emersion Sept. 2, 7 1 in time or 0 59 29 ~. You see, Sir, that this agreement is likewise very satisfactory. Mr. Messier took part in these observations, and found the application of them very easy. He himself bien, et si je ne m'abuse pas trop sur mon travail, il me semble, que la methode, que je viens de vous exposer, est susceptible d'une tres grande exactitude. J'espere que vous voudrez bien m'en dire votre sentiment, dont je fais le plus grand cas, et qui me sera tres utile, surtout si vous avez le loisir de repeter ces observations. Je prendrai la liberte d'ajouter, a la fin de cette lettre, quelques reflexions sur la maniere de les faire. A l'egard du diametre du premier, je l'ai determine par trois observations. L'immersion du 30 Juin 1771, m'a donne son diametre de 7~ 17~ en tems, ou de 10 1~ 45~ vu de Jupiter. Le premier Aout l'emersion m'a donne son diametre de 7~ 3~ en tems, ou de 0~ 59~ 46~; enfin, l'emersioon du deux Septembre m'a donne son diametre de 7~ 1~ en tems, ou de 0~ 59~ 29~. Vous voiez, Monsieur, que cet accord est encore tres satisfaisant. Mr. Messier a bien voulu prendre part a ces observations, il en a trouve l'usage facile. ~ [202] self observed the diameter of the second satellite, by the emersion of the 30th of August; but it emerged at so small a distance from the first, that this circumstance may have vitiated the observation; the diameter of this satellite must therefore be verifyed by fresh observations. However, the result of Mr. Messier's makes it 7~ 2~ in time, or 29~ 42~ seen from Jupiter; and a former observation of mine, of the 11th of July, gave the same quantity precisely. Thus, by means of the tables given in my paper, which I had the honour of mentioning to you, it will be possible, to compute the invisible segment, for all the observations which have been hitherto made, and, the diameter of the satellite being likewise ascertained, to reduce the instant of the observed eclipse to that of the passage of the center over the edge of the shadow, which will be a fixed term for all the observations, and Il a observe lui meme le diametre du second, par l'emersion du 30 Aout, mais il sortit si pres du premier, que cette circonstance peut avoir nui a la bonte de l'observation; ainsi le diametre de ce satellite a besoin d'etre confirme par de nouvelles observations. Quoiqu'il en soit, il resulte de son observation, que le diametre du second est de 7~ 2~ en tems, ou de 29~ 42~ vu de Jupiter. Je l'avais trouve par une autre observation du 11 Juillet, de 7~ 2~, precisement comme Mr. Messier. Au moien des tables, que j'ai donnees dans mon memoire, et dont j'ai eu l'honneur de vous parler, Monsieur, on pourra donc calculer, pour toutes les observations faites jusqu'a present, le segment invisible, qui a eu lieu, et, au moien du diametre connu reduire l'instant de l'eclipse, au moment ou le centre s'est trouve sur le bord de l'ombre, moment qui sera un terme fixe pour toutes les observations, et pour tous les observateurs, [203] and all the observers, who but seldom agree in the observation of the same eclipse. I confess, that the transparency of the air is not always the same, and that a greater or less degree of transparency will make the segments smaller or larger, and consequently affect the observation. The inequality of sight may likewise occasion some error; for, though it might be possible, to settle the general effect of the difference of sight of different observers, the sight of the same person is not constantly the same, and even independently of the change produced by age, may not have the same strength at all times. But by the method I propose, all these inconveniencies will be remedied, in future observations, with little trouble. Every observer is to furnish himself with several diaphragms of pasteboard, gradually diminishing by half-lines, to be applied to the object-glass externally, and some minutes before an immersion, or after an emersion, he is to determine which of them intercepts teurs, qui ne s'accordent que rarement dans l'observation de la meme eclipse. Je conviens, que la transparence de l'air n'est pas toujours la meme, et que quelques degres de plus ou de moins dans cette transparence rendent les segmens moins ou plus grands, et consequemment affectent l'observation. L'inegalit~ des vues est encore une autre source d'erreurs; quand meme on pourrait etablir l'effet de la difference des vues des observateurs; ces vues ne sont pas constantes, et, sans parler du changement, que l'age amene avec lui, la vue peut n'avoir pas la meme force dans tous les instans. Voici la methode, que je propose, pour remedier a tous ces inconveniens, d'une maniere facile et commode, a l'egard des observations futures. Il suffirait, que chaque observateur fit des diaphragmes de carton pour appliquer exterieurement a son objectif, qui diminuassent de demi ligne en demi ligne. Quclques minutes avant une immersion, ou apres une emersion, VOL. LXIII. E e il [204] intercepts from him the sight of the satellite. Having found this, and knowing likewise the diameter of the satellite, he will reduce [by the process of calculation already explained] the observed instant of the eclipse, to that of the passage of the center; which is the same [as I said before] for all the observers in the world. You see, Sir, what advantages would arise, from this agreement, for the theory of the satellites, and the precision of the terrestrial longitudes. This method takes in every thing; the difference of glasses, that of sights, the greater or less transparency of the atmosphere, &c. Observation gives the segment greater or less, in proportion to the combined influence of all these causes. The principal advantage of this method, which requires only a very simple calcultion, is, that it depends on no hypothesis. It enables us to measure immediately the light of the satellite, whether increased or diminished by all the causes above-mentioned; to measure, I say, the real impression of that il determinerait, lequel de ces diaphragmes lui derobe la vue du satellite: ensuite, au moyen du diametre, il reduirait l'instant de l'eclipse observee, au moment du passage du centre, moment qui est le meme pour tous les observateurs de tous les pays du monde. Vous voyez, Monsieur, quels avantages il resulterait de cet accord, pour la theorie des satellites, et pour la precision des longitudes terrestres. Cette methode renferme tout; la difference des lunettes, celle des vues, le plus ou moins de transparence de l'atmosphere, &c. C'est en raison de toutes ces causes, que l'on trouve, par observation, le segment plus ou moins grand. L'avantage principal de cette methode, qui n'exige qu'un calcul fort simple, est, de n'etre soumise a aucune hipothese. On mesure immediatement la lumiere du satellite, augmentee ou d.minuee par [205] that light upon the eye, whatever be the actual state of the organ. These, Sir, are the methods and enquiries which I submit to your judgment, and with that view, I have been very copious in my details. I am highly ambitious of your approbation, and shall pay great attention to your remarks. I must add, that I am sensible, the determination of the invisible segment, by means of the diaphragm, might be inconvenient to those, who make use of large telescopes for the eclipses of the satellites, were it not, that this observation may be equally well made with a smaller telescope, provided only, that it be sufficicent to see and distinguish the four satellites; and after the diaphragm is determined by this smaller telescope, the larger one may be used for the observation of the eclipse. For these measures are easily transferred from one instrument to another, the invisible segments in different telescopes, being inversely as par toutes les causes que nous avons indiquees, et on mesure meme l'impression de la lumiere sur l'aeil, quel que soit l'etat actuel de cet organe. Voila, Monsieur, les methodes et les recherches, que je soumets a vos lumieres; et je l'ai fait avec beaucoup de detail, afin de vous mettre dans le cas de les juger. J'ambitionne extremement votre suffrage, et je ferai usage de vos reflexions. J'ajouterai, que la determination du segment invisible, par le moyen du diaphragme, pourrait devenir incommode, pour ceux qui se servent de grandes lunettes, dans les eclipses des satellites; mais cette observation peut se faire egalement avec une petite lunette, pourvu qu'elle fasse bein voir et distinguer les quatre satellites. Quand on aura determine le diaphragme avec cette lunettte, on fera l'observation de l'eclipse avec son instrument ordinaire. On peut transporter ces mesures, tres aisement, d'un instrument a l'autre, puisque les segE e 2 mens [206] as the squares of the apertures. For reflectors, I have a method of the same kind with the former, grounded, at least, upon the same principles, by which I can determine their power, and compare them, both with each other, and with the refracting telescopes. I shall conclude with some hints concerning the observation of the diaphragm, for determining the invisible segment. To repeat these observations with judgement, it will be necessary to recollect the intention of them; which is, to measure what portion of the disc remains illumined, that is, what portion of the satellite's light [continues, though unperceived, to be transmitted to the observers eye] at the instant when the satellite disappears, upon the brink of an eclipse. In lessening gradually the aperture of the glass, the observer should not begin with too small an opening; because the eye, not accustomed to mens invisibles sont, dans les differentes lunettes, en raison inverse du quarre des ouvertures. Quant aux telescopes de reflexion, j'ai une methode a peu pres du meme genre que celle-ci, et qui du moins est fondee sur le meme principe, par laquelle je puis determiner la force des telescopes, et les comparer, tant entr'eux, qu'avee les lunettes. Je finirai, Monsieur, par quelques reflexions sur l'observation du diaphragme, qui determine le segment invisible. Pour bien repeter ces observations, il faut se rapeller l'esprit, dans lequel elles ont ete entreprises, et dans lequel elles doivent toujours etre faites. C'est de mesurer la quantite de lumiere, la portion eclairee du disque, qui subsiste encore au moment ou le satellite disparait, en s'eclipsant. Quand on diminue, par degres, l'ouverture de la lunette, il ne faut pas commencer par une trop petite ouverture: l'aeil n'est pas fait a la grande obscurite qui en resulte; on ne verrait point le satellite. A chaque fois [207] to the great obscurity which follows, might not see the satellite at all. As the opening is gradually contracted, the satellite seems to grow less. The observer sometimes loses sight of it for a moment; but, if he continues to look attentively, he sees it again. The real disappearance is only to be concluded, when, upon fixing with steady eyes, for about half a minute, on the place it occupied, it is seen no more; for if one persisted to observe it much longer, it might happen, that it might be seen to glimmer at times, and immediately disappear. I have always made it a rule, to consider the debilitation of the light, in this degree, as actual disparition, and it is necessary, that observers should agree upon this point, in order that their different estimations may be consistent. These fits, of momentary glimmering and extinction, are undoubtedly owing to the motion of the particles of the atmosphere. In the clearest weather, there are always particles of vapour floating in it, in vast abundance; according as these particles place themselves fois qu'on diminue l'ouverture, on voit diminuer le satellite: quelquefois on croit ne le plus voir, mais, apres y avoir fait attention, on le revoit: il faut le juger disparu, quand on ne l'appercoit plus, apres avoir considere, avec des yeux bien reposes, pendant une demie minute environ, la place qu'il occupe: car, si on s'attachait a le considerer plus longtems, il pourrait arriver, qu'on le revit, par moment, paraitre, comme par eclairs, & disparaitre aussitot. Je l'ai toujours juge disparu, quand il a ete reduit a cet etat d'affaiblissement; il est essentiel de convenir de ceci, asin que les mesures se rapportent. Ces variations sont dues, sans doute, au mouvement de l'atmosphere. Il y a toujours, dans les momens [208] selves in the direction of the ray of light, or out of it, the light of the satellite is diminished or restored, and the satellite, in consequence, is either hid or rendered visible. This does not happen in eclipses, wherein a great part of the light is in reality extinguished. But, in the case I am now speaking of, though the diminution of the aperture of the glass does indeed take away a great quantity of it, yet this quantity is always relative to the actual state of the atmosphere (d): if that state changes, this quantity becomes alternately sensible or insensible, according as the light meets with more or less obstructions, in its passage, from the vapours. Another thing, which it will be necessary to point out to you, is, that the operation with the diaphragms, for determining the invisible segment, must be made and concluded, before the satellite has touched the shadow. The proper time, therefore momens ~ le tems est le plus serein, une infinite de vapeurs, dont les particules nagent dans l'atmosphere; selon que ces particules s'accumulent sur la route du raion de lumiere, ou qu'elles s'en ecartent, elles otent ou rendent plus de lumiere a ce satellite, qui, en consequence, se cache ou se laisse voir. C'est ce qui n'arrive point dans les eclipses, ou une grande partie de la lumiere est reellement detruite. Ici l'ouverture diminuee de la lunette en detruit reellement aussi une grande quantite, mais cette quantite est toujours relative a l'etat actuel de l'atmosphere. Si l'etat de l'atmosphere change, cette quantite devient alternativement sensible ou insensible, selon que les vapeurs lui opposent plus ou moins d'obstacles. Une chose qu'il est encore necessaire de vous faire observer, Monsieur, c'est, que l'operation du diaphragme, qui determinele segment invisible, doit etre faite et finie, avant que le [209] fore, for beginning this observation, will be determined, by the time the diameter takes in entering, which, in the perpendicular ingress, or when Jupiter is in the nodes, is 7~ for the two first, and 11~ for the third. The time of the oblique ingress is (7~) 2 R/d for the two first, and (11~) 2 R/d for the third; which, for this last, may in extreme cases amount to about 27~ or 28~. It is proper to take 5~ more; for the observations of the diaphragm will take up 2~, even when use has rendered them familiar, and the tables may be 2~ or 3~ behind. At present, it is be sufficient, to begin the observation 16~ before an eclipse of the third satellite; but there are times, in which it would be necessary, to begin 29~ or 30~ before. It is essential, not to begin too late, for fear of missing the observation; it is likewise essential, not to begin too soon, because then the segment le setellite ait touche l'ombre. Ainsi le tems, que le diametre met a entrer, doit donc regler cette observation; c'est a dire, 7~ pour les deux premiers, et 11~ pour le troisieme; mais ce tems est celui de l'entree perpendiculaire, qui n'a lieu que lorsque Jupiter est dans les naeuds. L'entree oblique est 7~ (2 R)/d pour les deux premiers, et (11~) 2 R/d pour le troisieme, ce qui peut aller pour celui ci jusqu'a 27~ ou 28~. Il faut encore prendre 5~ de plus, parceque meme etant exerce, il faut bien 2~ pour l'observation du diaphragme, et que les tables peuvent etre en retard de 2~ a 3~. Actuellement il suffit donc, de s'y prendre, pour cette observation 16~ avant une eclipse du troisieme, mais il y a des tems, ou il faudioit s'y prendre 29~ ou 30~ avant. Il 6 est [210] segment measured would be too small, as the satellite is continually either approaching Jupiter, or receding from him. All this is hastily explained; but these matters are so familiar to you, that you cannot but understand me, and this letter is already too long. I am afraid it will tire you; but I am extremely desirous of having the exactness and utility of these two methods, the one, for the measure of the diameters, the other, for making all the observations capable of mutual comparison, ascertained, by repeating the observation of the diaphragm in every eclipse. I cannot take a better way, than to consult the several astronomers, who, like you, besides being deeply skilled in the theory, are the most celebrated observers. If they will adopt this method, it will be the best way of making it general, as others will follow it of course. I have communicated est essentiel de ne s'y pas prendre trop tard, pour ne pas manquer l'observation; il est essentiel aussi de ne s'y pas, prendre trop tot, parcequ' alors on mesurerait un segment trop petit; car le satellite s'approche ou s'eloigne continuellement de Jupiter. Tout ceci est explique en courant, comme vous voyez, Monsieur, mais vous en savez trop sur ces matieres, pour ne me pas entendre, et cette lettre est deja d'une excessive longueur. J'ai bien peur, qu'elle ne vous cause de l'ennui; mais j'ai extremement a coeur, de constater l'exactitude et l'utilite de ces deux methodes, celle de la mesure des diametres, et celle de rendre toutes les observations comparables, en repetant, a chaque eclipse, l'observation du diaphragme. Je ne puis mieux faire que de consulter les astronomes, qui etant comme vous, Monsieur, profondement verses dans la theorie, sont, en meme tems, les plus celebres observateurs. Si ceux ci veulent bien adopter cette methode, c'est le meilleur moyen de la rendre generale: les autres l'adopteront aussi~ 4 Je [211] municated it to Mr. Messier, who proposes making use of it. Mr. Maraldi, who is gone to his house near Nice, has tried the observation of the diaphragm, with success, with an achromatic telescope three feet and a half long; and he would already have made use of it, but that it is impracticable with the telescope of 15 feet, which he uses for the eclipses of the satellites. I have written to him, that he may observe the eclipse with his usual telescope, and the diaphragm with the achromatic; so that I make do doubt he will use this method, as soon as Jupiter shall have come out of the rays of the Sun. These, Sir, are the things on which I wish to consult you, and have your advice. I shall be much Je l'ai communiquee a Mr. Messier, qui se propose d'en faire usage. Mr. Maraldi, qui, comme vous savez, est alle chez lui a Perinaldo, dans le comte de Nice, a essaie l'observation du diaphragme, qui lui a reussi, avec une lunette achromatique de 3 pieds et demi; et il l'auroit deja emploiee, si ce n'est, que l'observation du diaphragme n'est pas practicable avec sa lunette de 15 pieds, dont il se sert pour les eclipses des satellites. Je lui ~ mande, comme je vous l'ai fait observer plus haut, qu'il pouvoit faire l'observation du diaphragme avec sa lunette achromatique, et celle de l'eclipse avec sa lunette ordinaire: ainsi je ne doute point, qu'il ne fasse usage de cette methode, lorsque Jupiter se degagera des raions du soleil. Voila, Monsieur, toutes les choses, sur lesquelles je suis bien aise de vous consulter, et de vous demander votre avis. Si vous croyez que cette lettre en vaille la peine, je serai tres flatte, que vous la communiquiez a la Societe Roiale, a laquelle je presente l'hommage de mon profond respect. VOL. LXIII. F f Pardon, [212] much flattered by your communicating this letter to the Royal Society, if you think it deserves attention. I have the honour to be, &c. Bailly, Of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris. Pardon, Monsieur, de vous avoir detourne si longtems. Permettez moi de vous assurer du respect avec lequel je suis, Votre tres humble Et tres obeissant Serviteur, B A I L L Y, De l'Academie des Sciences de Paris. N O T E S [213] N O T E S O N T H E F O R E G O I N G P A P E R, BY THE REV. SAMUEL HORSLEY. (a) 2 R r (a b)/d. This formula is deduced from the following principles. 1st. That the motion of the satellite, in its orbit, is uniform, or, at least, may be considered as such, without sensible error, in the present investigation. 2. That the time, which the semidiameter takes to enter the shadow, in any eclipse, is inversely as the whole time of the duration of the eclipse. 3. That the time, which any given part of the semidiameter takes to enter the shadow, is to the time which the whole semidiameter takes to enter, as that part to the whole. Now, let a and b denote the versed sines of the arcs A d, A D (in the figure p. 189.) respectively, the radius being unity. Let R denote the half-time of the duration of an eclipse, when Jupiter is in the node of the satellite's orbit. r, the time which the semidiameter takes to enter the shadow in such eclipses; d, the whole duration of an eclipse, happening when Jupiter is at any given distance from the node. Then will 2 R r/d express the time, which the semidiameter of the satellite will take to enter the shadow, in the eclipse whose duration is d (by 2d, because d: 2 R = r: 2 R r/d). And, 2 R r/d being the time that the semidiameter takes to enter the shadow, 2 R r (a b)/d will be the time that the part B b takes to enter, by 3d.'' It is to be observed, that, to compare two eclipses by this formula, it is necessary, that the planet should have been at the F f 2 same [214] same distance from the node of the satellite's orbit, at the commencement of both. For comparing eclipses otherwise circumstanced, a more general formula may easily be deduced from the same principles. If A d be the insensible segment in one eclipse, A D in another (vide figure p. 189.), a the versed fine of the arc A d, b, of A D (the radius being unity), d the whole duration of the first eclipse, ~ of the second, then 2 R r/d ~ x ~ a d b is what the author would call the equation, between the two, arising from the different magnitudes of the insensible segment, or the time, by which the interval between the observed eclipses, differs from the interval between the real passage of the center in each eclipse. This is a general formula, for all eclipses of the same satellite. If the planet's distance from the node hath been the same in both, then ~ = d, and this formula changes into the author's. The more general one is here given, rather for the fuller explication of the theory, than for any necessity that there is to have recourse to it in practice. For, though the use of it may sometimes be convenient, eclipses of the same satellite may always be compared without it, when once the diameter of the satellite is known, and the magnitude of the insensible segment in each eclipse determined, by reducing the observed immersion or emersion to the true ingress or egress of the center. (b) The words printed in the Italic character are designedly omitted in the translation, it being apprehended, that it is owing to some inadvertency, that they appear in the author's text. For unless they are expunged, the general description, her intended, of the author's method of determining the diameters of the satellites, will by no means agree with the examples of that method immediately subjoined. These words imply, that the author takes the instant of the disparition of the satellite, in the contracted aperture of the diaphragm, for the moment of the contact of the satellite's limb with the edge of the shadow, and makes that moment, so determined, the basis of his calculations: reasoning, as it should seem, thus. `` When any part of the diameter of the satellite, however small, hath entered the shadow, some part of the light, which the observer receives, through the aperture of the diaphragm, from the whole unshaded disc, will be intercepted. But that aperture is so small, that the light transmitted through it, from the whole unshaded disc, is but just sufficient to be sensible; and must, therefore, cease to be so, 3 when [215] when it is in the smallest degree diminished, i. e. when the very smallest part imaginable of the disc is shaded. Therefore, the moment of the disparition, in the aperture of the diaphragm, is the true commencement of the eclipse, or differs from it by less than any assignable difference.'' But it appears, from the examples given afterwards, that the author's calculations proceed upon much safer principles. Having determined the portion of the disc, that is insensible on the whole given aperture of his telescope, he computes what larger portion will be insensible, on the smaller given aperture of his diaphragm. And then, by observing the two disparitions, the earlier one in the diaphragm, the other in the telescope with the object-glass uncovered, the last of which he calls the true immersion, he knows the time, in which a given portion of the diameter enters the shadow, and, consequently, the time, in which the whole enters; which determines the magnitude of the whole, in parts of the satellite's orbit, or its apparent magnitude to an observer at Jupiter's center. (c) The disadvantage of using too great an aperture is, that the part of the diameter obtained by observation, from which the whole is to be concluded, will be less, than the same method of observation would give, with a more contracted aperture. For the larger the aperture of the diaphragm is, which is applied to the object-glass, the less is the difference between that aperture and the whole aperture of the telescope; consequently, the less is the difference between the segments, which are insensible in these apertures severally, and the less the portion of the diameter, which passes over the shadow's edge, between the two disparitions. (d) In eclipses, when once the satellite hath disappeared, or is become visible, the author says, we are not to expect those fits of glimmering and extinction, which he hath described as taking place, when we observe the uneclipsed satellite with very contracted apertures. The reason is plainly this. In immersions, a part of the disc is still indeed enlightened, when the satellite disappears; and the quantity of light, transmitted from this part to the observer's eye, must be very different, in different states of the air's transparency; and consequently, the satellite, after having disappeared, might become visible again, by a sudden increase of the air's transparency in the tract of the satellite's light, provided, the [216] the magnitude of the unshaded part remained, at the instant of the increased transparency, what it was, when the satellite first disappeared. But, as this is not the case, as the unshaded part is continually growing less, the satellite cannot re-appear, unless the increase of transparency be such, as to overbalance the diminution of light made by the progress of the eclipse. And the motion into the shade is so quick, that this can rarely, if ever, happen. By the like reasoning, fits of extinction are not to be expected, when once the satellite hath shewn itself in an emersion. The author of these remarks doth not imagine, that any apology is necessary for the liberty he hath taken. He hath the highest opinion of the merit of Mr. Bailly's invention; and this hath excited him, to contribute what he could, to obviate objections, and to prevent mistakes. XXVI. A 