(4) II. An Account of the first Decade of a Book, Intituled, Johannis Martyn Historia Plantarum rariorum. Printed at London; by Richard Reily, 1728. by Mr. Rand, F. R. S. MR. Martyn in this Work has had the Plants, of their natural Bigness, exactly designed after the Life, and with great Accuracy and Success printed in their proper Colours. This curious Invention was never more aptly applied, though I think this is the first time it has been used in Botany. By this Means, without a long tedious Description, a Plant may be known by meer Inspection. However, that nothing may be wanting, the Author has thought fit to give short Descriptions, insisting more particularly on those minute Parts which cannot be so clearly expressed by Sculpture; and has added, where they could be obtain'd, some Account of their Uses, &c. The Plant in the first Table he calls Jalapa Officinarum. The Jalap Root has been in common Use above a hundred Years; yet the Plant it self wholly unknown to us in Europe till P. Plumier and M. Lignon, who had both passed a considerable Time in America in Botanical Disquisitions, at their Return, severally assured Mr. Tournefort, that it was a Species of the Plant commonly known by the Name of Marvel of Peru; who thereupon thought fit to make Jalapa the Name of the Genus, and distinguish that of the Shops by the Seeds being more rugose than those of the common. Tab. 2. (5) Tab. 2. Shews the Geranium Africanum, Arborescens, Malvae folio, lucido; flore elegantissimo Kermesino Domini van Leur. Boerh. Ind. alt. 262. 3. Geranium Chium, vernum; Caryophyllatae folio T. Cor. 20. 4. Brunella Caroliniana, magno flore, dilute caeruleo,internodiis praelongis, Phil. Trans. No. 395. Pag. 125. 5. Amaranthus Sinensis foliis variis; panicula eleganter plumoso. 6. Amaranthus spica albescente habitiore. 7. Parietaria Orientalis, Polygoni folio canescente T. Cor. 38. 8. Niruri Barbadense, folio Ovali subtus glauco, pediculis florum brevissimis, Phil. Trans. No. 399. Pag. 295. This is of the same Genus with that called Niruri, Hort. Malab. Tom. x. and there described, p. 53. Ours is a much smaller Plant, the Leaves are less, and grow much closer on the Stalks, and the Pedicle of each Flower by two thirds shorter. 9. Lychnidea Caroliniana floribus Umbellatim dispositis, foliis lucidis crassis. This Plant is something like Lychnidea Virginiana Holostei ampliore folio, floribus umbellatis purpureis Phil. Trans. No.395. Pag. 126. but the Leaves are much larger, thicker,and of a deep shining green Colour. 10. Aloe Africana, foliis planis, conjugatis, carinatis verrucosis, caule & flore Corallii colore Boerh. Ind. alt. p. 2. Pag. 131. 2 The (6) The ingenious Author proposes, in the Sequel of this Work, to give an Account of new Plants only, or at least such as have not been well figured by others: If he proceeds with the same Exactness, as I don't doubt he will, the Work very well deserves Encouragement; for of Plants thus figured and described, there can be no future Doubts. Happy had it been for us, had the Antients left such Types or Descriptions of those they recommended as considerable for their Use in Medicine. This would have saved the Learned World much Labour and Study in an Enquiry, which 'tis to be feared~ for want of such Helps, will prove unsuccessful. III. 