(2194) I. A Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. concerning some Roman Inscriptions found at York, proving that the Ninth Legion some time resided there. BY your very kind Letter I perceive how much I am obliged to the Society for so candid a reception of my poor Endeavours, which encourages me to transmit two Roman Inscriptions found at York, one very lately, the other several years ago, but no where yet taken notice of, tho it hath this very remarkable, That it is an undeniable Argument that the Ninth Legion was not only in Britain, which is rarely taken notice of, but that it resided at York; which was heretofore unknown. It is a Funeral Monument, whereupon, under the Statue (in Basse-relieve) of the Standard-bearer of the 9th Legion, is this Inscription. L DVCCIVS * Lubens voluit *L. VOL. RVF1 -NVS. VIEN SIG~. LEG.VIIIIAN. XXIIX. Hic situs est. H. S. E. This Monument was found in Trinity-yard in Micklegate at York, and was happily rescued by my Honoured Friend Dr Bryan Fairfax, from the brutish Workmen, who (2195) who had broke it in the middle, and were going to make use of it for two Throughs, as they call them, in the Wall; but by that worthy Gentlemans direction it was placed upright, with the Inscription outwards. That this 9th Legion was in Britain in Galba's time, and that it was also Hispaniensis, appears from the very Learned Sir Henry Savile's Notes at the end of his Edition of Tacitus; but that it, as well as the VIth and the XXth, was also called Victrix, or that it resided at York, has not been observed before; and yet both are evident from this Inscription upon a Roman Brick found there. L E G. IX. VIC. This is also an Argument of the Peace these Parts enjoyed at that time, (possibly the latter end of Severus's Reign,) making Bricks, casting up Highways, &c. being the usual employment of Souldiers at such vacancies. The former Inscription is now removed to the Gardens of Sir John Goodricks at Ribston; the latter is in my possession. Sir Hen. Savile was of opinion that this Nona Hispaniensis in Britannia was one of those established by Tiberius, Caius, or Claudius, or peradventure in the la er times of Augustus; but however that it was certainly here in Nero's Reign, and that Paetus Cerealis was then Lieutenant thereof is indisputably evident from Tacitus, (lib. 14. cap. 10.) who gives a lamentable account of the slaughter of seventy thousand Citizens and Contederates, by the enraged Boudicea, in which number was all the Foot of this ninth Legion: Cerealis with the Horse hardly escaping. I suppose it needless to add, that this Number is frequently by the Romans writ VIII as well as IX; for one that is but competently vers'd in their Co s or Inscriptions, cannot but have observed instances of both kinds; however, to prevent all mistakes, (it being near ten (2196) ten years since I saw this Monument) the Learned and Ingenious Roger Gale, Esq; was so kind as to send me a new Transcript; and I have by me also a third, lately taken by a grave Divine; all which agree that it is the IXth Legion, which is also confirm'd by the other Inscription upon the Brick, which was but lately found. I shall only add what an Ingenious Gentleman of Oxford writes, because it relates to an Author I have not the opportunity to consult here, but is possibly in your Curious Library. `` I am mightily pleased with the Inscriptions `` you sent me relating to the 9th Legion, there being `` now no room to doubt about the place of Residence, a `` thing which was unknown before; and for that reason, `` those who have written about the Roman Legions have `` said nothing about this, but leave us quite in the dark; `` only Ursatus [in his Book de Notis Rom.] does remark, `` that it must be somewhere in Britain, because Tacitus `` tells us, that when the Colony at Camalodunum was de`` stroyed by Boadicia, Paetilius Cerealis, Legate of the IXth `` Legion, came to their assistance; but yet he makes no `` mention of its being stiled Victrix. This I receiv'd from Mr Tho. Hearne of Edmund Hall, from whom is expected a curious Edition of Livy. Your Most Obliged and Obedient Servant, Ralph Thoresby. II. De 