h h g h h E g F g F F g h h V. Some instances of other persons who were hurt by ~lowing Plumb-stones, by the Publisher. THe discourse mentioned in the beginning of the foregoing Letter was concerning Plumb-stones which had been swallowed by some persons, and had been the cause of their Sickness or Death. The first was a Man in Lancashire, who being for many years ill of the Colic,and receiving relief from no Med'cine, desired he might be diffected after his Death, to see what might be the cause of his Disease. This was accordingly done,and they took out of one of his Guts a large Ball 6 inches about, of an ounce and half weight made up of a spungy matter which swims in Water, and viewed by a Microscope, appeared to be made up of very small,transparent Hairs or Fibres,wrought together,after the manner of the Tophus Bovinus taken out of the maws of Oxen. In the middle or center of it was a common Prune or Plumb-stone, which had been swallowed, and sticking somewhere in the Guts, had gathered that substance about it which resembled the small Hairs on the skins of several Creatures of Fibers of Plants we eat. Dr Charles Leigh in his Natural History of Lancashire, &c. in his first Table has figured this Fig. 4. He N n n n n n n shew (1284) shewing me the same, I was desirous to see what it was made of, and had it cut for that purpose, and found it of a hairy or fibrous substance,layer upon layer,or coat upon coat, over a Plumb-stone. This Ball with its Plumb.stone and several Coats, my very good Friend Dr Leigh was pleased to give me, and it is now in my possession, and seems to be of the same substance with that mentioned by Mr Yonge. The second instance I saw of these Balls was by the means of Dr Wm Cole, who did me the favour to shew me a Letter he had from the Country, and some smaller Balls than the 2 before mentioned, which had in their centers Plumb-stones. The person he was consulted for, had, I think, the Colick to a great degree,and had voided several of them, they were not so Sphaerical, but of a compress'd figure, smooth on the outside and glaz'd as some of the Tophi Bovini are; and seemed within of the same substance with the former stratum super stratum upon a Plumb-stone. A third instance like these I saw, through the favour of the late Dr Wm Stokeham, who shewed me a Ball about the largeness of that I had of Dr Leigh, which had been voided by a person after great Sickness, and preserved by the Patients Physician, who was one famous for practising Chymically some years ago, viz. Dr George Thompson. He has wrote a large account of thiscase, and printed it in his experimenta admiranda, p.67. de Lithocolo, I had this last Ball in my possession some time, and in appearance it was of the same substance, but what was contained in it I could not tell, not being permitted to open it, but that Author tells us it had several Plumb and Cherry-stones in it. These Balls seem to be form'd something after the manner of Bezoars, which generally have some seed for their Center or nucleus, on which Coats of another substance are gathered. These instances are sufficient to shew the folly of that common opinion,that the Stones of Fruit are wholesome,for tho by Nature theGuts are so defended by the Macus Intestinalis, that very seldom People suffer, yet if we consider the various circumvolutions of the Guts, their valves and cells; and (1285) and at the same time consider the hair of the Skins of Animals we feed on, the Wooll or Down on Herbs and Fruit, the Fibres, Vessels, and Nerves of Plants which are not altered by the Stomach, the same case may very easily happen. I once saw as strange a Distemper, and almost as obstinate and long as I ever met with, proceed from a great quantity of Strawberry Seeds which had lodged in the Guts, and after their discharge the persons was eased. And I have heard of many besides those published, who have lost their Lives by swallowing many Cherry-stones. 