XIV. An Account of some Cases of the Production of Colours, not hitherto described. By Thomas Young, M. D. F'. R. S. F. L. S. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution. Read July i, 18o2. WVHATEVER opinion may be entertained of the theory of light and colours which I have lately hlad the honour of submitting to the Royal Society, it must at any rate be allowed that it has given birth to the discovery of a simple and general law, capable of explaining a number of the phenomena of coloured light, which, without this law, would remain insulated and unintelligible. The law is, that "c wherever two portions of the same "light arrive at the eye by different routes, either exactly or "very nearly in the same direction, the light becomes most "intense when the difference of the routes is any multiple of a "certain length, and least intense in thee intermediate state of "the interfering portions; and this length is diffirent for light "of different colours.'" I have already shown in detail, the sufficiency of this law for explaining -all thephenomena described in the second and third books of NEWTONYS -Optics, as well as some others not mentioned by, NTEWTON. But it is still more satisfactory to observe its conformity to other facts, which constitute new and distinct classes of phenomena, and which could scarcely have agreed so well with any anterior law, if that law had been erroneous or imaginary: these are, the colours of fibres, and the colours of mixed plates. ',88 Dr. YOUNG'S Account of some Cases As I was observing the appearance of the fine parallel lines of light which are seen upon the margin of an object held near the eye, so as to intercept the greater part of the light of a distant luminous object, and which are produced by the fringes causced by the inflection of light, already known, I observed that they were sometimes accompanied by coloured fringes, much broader and more distinct; and I soon found, that these broader fringes were occasioned by the accidental interposition of a hair. In order to make them more distinct, I employed a horse-hair; but they were then no longer visible. With a fibre of woolon the contrary, they became very large and conspicuous: and, with a single silk-worm's thread, their magnitude was so much increased that twvo or three of them seemed to occupy the whole field of viewv. They appeared to extend on each side of the candle, in the same order as the colours of thin plates, seen by transmitted light. It occurred to me, that their cause must be sought in the interference of two portions of light, one reflected from the fibre, the other bending round its opposite side, and at last coinciding nearly in direction with the former portion; that, accordingly as both portions deviated more from a rectilinear direction, the diflerence of the length of their. paths would become gradual greater and greater, and would consequently produce the appearances of colour usual in such cases; that, supposing them to be inflected at right angles, the difference would account nearly to the diameter of the fibre, and that this difference must consequently be smaller as the fibre became smaller; and, the number of fringes in a right angle becoming smaller, that their angular distances would consequently become greater, and the whole appearance would be dilated. It was easy to calculate, that for the light least inflected, of the Production of Colours. 389 the difference of the paths would be to the diameter of the fibre, very nearly as the deviation of the ray, at any point, from the rectilinear direction, to its distance from the fibre. I therefore made a rectangular hole in a card, and bent its ends so as to support a hair parallel to the sides of the hole: then, upon applying the eye near the hole, the hair of course appeared dilated by indistinct vision into a surface, of which the breadth was determined by the distance of the hair and the magnitude of the hole, independently of the temporary aperture of the pupil. When the hair approached so near to the direction of the margin of a candle that the inflected light was sufficiently copious to produce a sensible effect, the fringes began to ap-. pear; andc it was easy to estimate the proportion of their breadth to the apparent breadth of the hair, across the image of which they extended. I found that six of the brightest red fringes, nearly at equal distances, occupied the whole of that image. The breadth of the. aperture was 6 6 and its distance from the hair AL of an inch: the diameter of the hair was less than o of an inch; as nearly as I could ascertain, it was Hence, we have 0 for the deviation of the first red fringe at the distance -L; and, as -YTC : I 000 or 363for the difference of the routes ofthe red light where it was most intense. Themeasure deduced from NEWTON'S experiments is 3-92<> I thought this coincidence, with only an error of oneninth of so minute a quantity, sufficiently perfect to warrant completely the explanation of the phenomenon, and even to render a repetition :of the experiment unnecessary; for there are several .circumstances which make it difficult to calculate much more precisely what ought to b& the result of the mean surement. MDCCCIc E 390 Dr. YouN?9s Account of some Cases When a number of fibres of the same kind, for instancei a: uniform lock of wool, are held near to the eye, we see an appearance of halos surrounding a distant candle; but their brilliancy, and even their existence, depends on the uniformity of the dimensions of the fibres; and they are larger as the fibres are smaller. It is obvious that they, arethe immediate consequences of the coincidence of a number of fringes of the same size, which, as the fibres are arranged in all imaginable directions, must necessarily surround the luminous object at equal distances on all sides and constitute circular fringes. There can be little doubt that thecoloured atmospherical halos are of the same kind : their appearance must depend on the existence of a number of particles of water, of equal dimensions, and in a proper position; with respect to the luminary and, to the eye. As there 'is no natural limit tothe magnitude of the spherules of water, we may expect these halos to vary without limit in their diameters and) accordingly, Mr. JORDAN has observed that their dimensions are exceedingly various, and has remarked that they frequently change during the time of observation. I first noticed the colours of mixed plates, in looking at a candle through two pieces of plate-glass, with a little moisture between them., I observed an appearance of fringes resembling the common coloui's of thin plates; and, upon looking for the fringes by reflection, I found that these new fringes were always in the same direction as the other fringes, but many times larger. By examining the glasses with a magnifier, I perceived that wherever these fringes were visible, the moisture was intermixed with portions of air, producing an appearance similar to dew. I then supposed that the origin of the colours was the same as ,of the Production of Colours. 391. -hat of the colours of halos; but, on a more minute examination, I found that the magnitude of the portions of air and water was by no means uniform, and that the explanation was therefore inadmissible. It was, however, easy to fin-d two portions of light sufficient for the production of these fringes; for, the light transmitted through the water, moving in it with a velocity different from that of the light passing through the interstices filled only with air, the two portions would interfere with each other, and produce effects of colour according to the general law. The ratio of the velocities in water and in air, is that of 3 to 4; the fringes ought therefore to appear where the thickness is 6 times as great as that which corresponds to the same colour in the common case of thin plates; and, upon making the experiment with a plane glass and a lens slightly convex, I found the sixth dark circle actually of the same diameter as the first in the new fringes. The colours are also very easily produced, when butter or tallow is substituted for water; and the rings then become smaller, on account of the greater refractive density of the oils: but, when water is added, so as to fill up the interstices of the oil, the rings are very much enlarged; for here the difference only of the velocities in water and in oil is to be considered, and this is much smaller than the difference between air and water. All these circumstances are sufficient to satisfy us with respect to the truth of the explanation; and it is still more confirmed by the effect of inclining the plates to the direction of the light; for then, instead of dilating, like the colours of thin plates, these rings contract: and this is the obvious consequence of an increase of the length of the paths of the light, which now traverses both mediums obliquely; and the effect is every where the same as that of a thicker plate. 3E X 592 Dr. YOUNG'S Account of some Cases It must however be observed, that the colours are not produced in the whole light that is transmitted through the mediums: a small portion only of each pencil, passing through the water contiguous to the edges of the particle, is sufficiently coincident with the light transmitted by the neighbouring portions of air, to produce the necessary interference; and it is easy to show that, on account of the natural concavity of the surface of each portion of the fluid adhering to the two pieces of glass, a considerable portion of the light which is beginning to pass through the water will be dissipated laterally by reflection at its entrance, and that much of the light passing through the air will be scattered by refraction at the second surface. For these reasons, the fringes are seen when the plates are not directly interposed between the eye and the luminous object; and, on account of the absence of foreign light, even more distinctly than when they are in the same right line with that object. And, if we remove the plates to a considerable distance out of this line, the rings are still visible and become larger than before; for here the actual route of the light passing through the air, is longer than that of the light passing more obliquely through the water, and the diffhrence in the times of passage-is lessened. It is however impossible to be quite confident with respect to the causes of these minute variations, without some means, of ascertaining accurately the forms of the dissipating surfaces. In applying the general law of interference to these colours, as wvell as to those of thin plates already known, I must confess that it is impossible to avoid another supposition, which is a part of the undulatory theory, that is, that the velocity of light is the greater, the rarer the medium;and that there is also a f the Production of Colours. 393 condition annexed to the explanation of the colours of thin plates, which involves another part of the same theory, that is, that where one of the portions of light has been reflected at the surface of a rarer medium, it must be supposed to be retarded one half of the appropriate interval, for instance, in the celnl tral black spot of a soap-bubble, where the&actual lengths of the paths very nearly coincide, but the effect is the same as one of the portions had been so retarded as to destroy the other. From considering the nature of this circumstance, I ventured, to predict, that if the two reflections were of the same kind, made at the surfaces of a thin plate, of a -density intermediate between the densities of the mediumscontaining it, the effect would be reversed, and the central spot, instead of black, would become white; and I have now the pleasure of stating, that I have fully verified this prediction, by interposing a drop of oil of sassafras between a prism of flint-glass and a lens of crown glass; the central spot seen by reflected: light was white, and surrounded by a dark ring. It was however necessary to use some force, in order to produce a contact sufficiently intimate and the white spot differed even at last, in the same degree ,from perfect whiteness, as the black spot usually does from perfect blackness. The colours of mixed plates suggested to me an idea which appears io lead to an explanation of the dispersion of colours by refraction, more simple and satisfactory than -that which I advanced in the last BAKERIAN lecture. We may suppose that every refractive medium transmits the undulations constituting light in two separate portions, one passing through its ultimate particles, and the other through its pores; and that these portions re-unite continually, after each successive separation, the one having preceded the other by a very minute but constant 394 Dr. YOUNG'S Account of some Cases interval, depending on the regular arrangement of the particles of a homogeneous medium. , Now, if these two portions were always equal, each point of the undulations resulting from their re-union, would always be found half way between the places of the corresponding point in the separate portions; but, supposing the preceding portion to be the smaller, the newly combined undulation will be less advanced than if both had been equal, and the difference of its place will depend, not only on the difference of the length of the two routes, which will be constant for all the undulations, but also on the law and magnitude of those undulations ; so that the larger undulations will be somewhat further advanced after each re-union than the smaller ones, and, the same operation recurring at every particle of the medium, the whole progress of the larger undulations will be more rapid than that of the smaller; hence the deviation, in consequence of the retardation of the motion of light in a denser medium, will of course be greater for the smaller than for the larger undulations. Assuming the law of the harmonic curve for the -motions of the particles, we might without much difficulty reduce this conjecture to a comparison with experiment; but it would be necessary, in order to warrant our conclusions, to be provided with very accurate measures of the refractive and dispersive powers of various substances, for rays of all descriptions. Dr. WOLLASTON'S very interesting observations would furnish great assistance in this inquiry, when compared with the separation of colours by thin plates. I have repeated his experiments on the spectrum with perfect success and have made some attempts to procure comparative measures from thin plates; and I have found that, as Sir ISAAc NEWTON has already of the Production of Colours. 895 tobserved, the blue and violet light is more dispersed by refraction, than in proportion to the difference of the appropriate dimensions deduced from the phenomena of thin plates. Hence it happens, that when a line of the light proceeding to form an image of the rings of colours of thin plates, is intercepted by a prism, and an actual picture is formed, resembling the scale delineated by NEWTONS from theory, for estimating the coloursof particles of givendimensions, the oblique spectrums;, formed by the, different colours of each series, are not straight, but curved, the lateral refraction of the prism separating the violet end more widely than the red. The thickness corresponding to the extreme-red, the line of yellow, bright green, bright blue, and extreme violet, I found to be inversely as the numbers 27, 30, 5, 40, and 45, respectively. In consequence of Dr.WOLLASTON'S correction of the description of the prismatic spectrum, compared with these observations, it becomes necessary to modify the suppositions that I advanced in the last BAKERIAN lecture, respecting the proportions of the sympatheticfibres of the retina; substituting red, green-, and violet, for red, yellow, and blue, and the numbers 7; 6and S, for 8, 7;,and&6. The same prismatic analysis of the -colours of thin plates, appearsto furnish; a satisfactory explanation of the subdivision of the lightof the lower part of a-candle: for, in fact, the light transmitted through every part of a thin plate, is divided in a similar manner into distinct portions,-increasing in number with the thickness of the plate, until they become too minute to be visible. At the thickness corresponding to the ninth, or tenth portion of red light, the number of portions of different colours is five; and their proportions, as exhibited by refraction, are nearly the same as in the light of a candle, the violet being the 396 Dr. YouNG's Account of some Cases broadest. We have only to suppose each particle of tallow to be, at its first evaporation, of such dimensions as to produce the same effect as the thin plate of air at this point, where it is about I o of an inch in thickness, and to reflect, or perhaps rather to transmit, the mixed light produced by the incipient combustion around it, and we shall have a light completely resembling that which Dr. WOLLASTON has observed. There appears to be also a fine line of strong yellow light, separate from the general spectrum, principally derived from the most superficial combustion at the margin of the flame, and increasing in quantity as the flame ascends. Similar circumstances might undoubtedly be found in other cases of the production or modi-. fication of light; and experiments upon this subject might tend greatly to establish the NEWTONIAN opinion, that the colours of all natural bodies are similar in their origin to those of thin plates ; an opinion which appears to do the highest honour to thesagacity of its author, and indeed to form a very considerable ,step in our advances towards an acquaintance with the intimate constitution and arrangement of material substances. I have lately had an opportunity of confirming my former observations on the dispersive powers of the eye. I find that, at the respective distances of io and 15 inches, the extreme red and extreme violet rays are similarly refracted, the difference being expressed by a focal length of 30 inches. Now the interval between red and yellow is about one-fourth of the whole spec-trun; consequently, a focal length of 120 inches expresses a power equivalent to the dispersion of the red and yellow, and this differs but little from is3e, which was the result of the observation already `escr'bed. I do not know that these experitnt~nts areX more accurate than the former one.; but I have of the Production of Colours. 397 repeated them several times under different circumstances, and II have no doubt that the dispersion of coloured light in the human eye is nearly such as I have stated it. How it happens to be no greater, I cannot at present undertake to explain. 