383 3 XXVII. The Bakerian Lecture. On the relations of electrical and chemical changes. By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY, Bart. Pres. R. S. Read June 8, 1826. I. Introduction. L L LONG time has elapsed since I read before this Society the Bakerian Lecture on the Chemical Agencies of Electric city. The general laws of decomposition developed in that Paper were immediately illustrated by some practical results, which the Society did me the honour to receive in a very favourable manner; and which, by offering a class of new and powerful agents, led me away for many years into a field of pure chemical enquiry : and it is only lately, and on an occasion which is well known, that I have again taken up the subject of the general principles of electrochemical action. After a number of new experiments, which I shall have the pleasure of laying before the Society, and notwithlstanding the various novel views which have been brought forward in this and in other countries, and the great activity and extension of science, it is peculiarly satisfactory to me to find that I have nothing to alter in the fundamental theory laid doWn in my original communication; and which, after a lapse of twenty years, has continued, as it was in the beagin. ning, the guide and foundation of all my researches. I am the more inclined to bring forward these new labours at the present moment, though they are far from being in a 384 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of finished state, because the discovery of OERSTED and that of MORICHINI, illustrated by some late ingenious enquiries connect the electrochemical changes with entirely new classes of facts, and induce a hope that many of the complicated phenomena of corpuscular changes, now obscure, will ultimately be found to depend upon the same causes, and to be governed by the same laws ; and that the simplicity of our scientific arrangements will increase with every advance in the true knowledge of nature. II. Some historical details. As I am not acquainted with any work in which full and accurate statements on the origin and progress of electrochemical science are to be found, and as some very erroneous statements have been published abroad, and repeated in this country, I shall take the liberty of laying before the Society a short historical sketch on this subject which is the more wanted, as the journal in which the early discoveries were registered has long been discontinued, and is now little known or referred to. As there are historians of chemistry and astronomy who date the origin of these sciences front antediluvian times, so there are not wanting persons who imagine the origin of electrochemical science before the discovery of the pile of VOLTA; and RITTER and WINTERL have been quoted* amongst other persons as having imagined, or anticipatedthe relation between electrical powers and chemical affinities, before the period of this great invention. But whoever will read with attention RITTER'S (" Evidence that the galvanic* OERSTEBD, translated by MARCBL, 1813. electrical and chemical changes. 3 action exists in organized Nature," * and WINTERL'S " Prolusiones ad Chemiam Saeculi decimi noni," will find nothing to justify this opinion. RITTER'S work contains some very ins genious and original experiments on the formation and powers of single galvanic circles; and WINTERL'S some bold, though loose speculative viewst upon the primary causes of chemical phenomena: and in the obscurity of the language and metaphysics of both these Gentlemen, it is difficult to say what may not be found. In the ingenious, though wild views, and often inexact experiments of RITTER, there are more hints which may be considered as applying to electromagnetism than to electro-chemistry; and WINTERL'S miraculous "A ndronia"' might, with as much propriety, be considered as a type of all the chemical substances that have been since discovered, as his view of the antagonist powers, the acid and basic, can be regarded as an anticipation of the electrochemical theory. The queries of NEWTON at the end of his " Optics" contain more grand and speculative views that might be brought to bear upon this question than any found in the works of modern electricians ;t but it is very unjust to the experimentalists* Jena, I800. t As a specimen of the Prolusiones, I shall give a few articles from the Index, which will show the character of the work. Prolusiones, pag. 256, et seq. 2S6. "Adamas est Andronia. 26o. "Andronia cum Plumbo creat Barytam, cum Ferro Chalybem. 26z. "Carbo est acidus cum Atmosphara basica. 263. "Chromium non est nisi Calx Magnesili acida. -. c Cuprum cum Andronia coalescit in Molybdxetum. z68. " Scintilla electrica formatur a Principiis Conductorern primum et secundumi animantibus, ac inter se concurrentibus est gravis, habet effectum electricitati contrarium." t See the eloquent observations of Mr. C F.uxvix on the subject of WIxTEUL'S Theory, Annales de Chim. Vol. 50, 2 Cap. 175. 886 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY on the relations of who, by the laborious application of new instruments, have idscovered novel facts and analogies, to refer them toany such suppositions as, "I that all attractions, chemical,* electrical, magnetic, and gravitative, may depend upon the same cause ;" or to still looser expressions, in which different words are used and applied to the same ideas, and in which all the phenomena of nature are supposed to depend on the Dynamic system, or the equilibrium and opposition of antagonist powers. The true origin of all that has been done in electro-chemical science was the accidental discovery of MM. NIcHOLSON and CARLISLE, of the decomposition of water by the pile of VOLTA, April 3o, 1800.t These Gentlemen 'immediately added to this capital fact, the knowledge of the decomposition of certain metallic solutions, and the circumstance of the separation of alkali on the negative plates of the apparatus. Mr. -CRuICKSHANK, in pursuing their experiments, added to them many important new results, such as the decompositions of muriates of magnesia, soda and ammonia, bythe* In the Systeme Universelle of M. AZAis, not only are all the phenomena of nature referred to the same cause, but specific reasonings upon the mode of its operation given. In this work, published in i 8 I Q, not only is the identity of Magnetism and Electricity insisted on, but an attempt is made to explain the manner in which the two electrical fluids produce the magnetic phenomena, pag. 239 Vol. I. a"Ainsi ces deux ordres de phenomenes sont tres ressemblans. Repetons que toutes leurs diff6rences resultent uniquement de ce que les deux fluides sont moins intenses lorsq'ils produisent les phenomenes du Magnetisme que lorsq' ils produisent les phenomenes du Galvanisme, &c." It requires only the same principle as that censured in the text to refer to this author the discoveryof ORSTED and the speculations of AMPEBRE. M. AZAIS, in his " fluides mineure et majeure," finds all the causes of the acid and alkaline properties of bodies.:-slow combinations, the heat produced, and all the phenomena of chemical change; and his reasonings are often very ingenious. j NIcoISONN'S Journal, Vol. 42, page i83. electrical and chemical changes. 387 pile, and that alkaline matter always appeared at the negative, and acid at the positive pole :*"and Dr. HENRY about the same time made some unsuccessful attempts to decompose potassa in solution by the pile, and confirmed the general conclusions of MM. NICHOLSON, CARLISLE and CRUICKSHANI. In the month of September in this year, I published my first Paper on the subject of Galvanic Electricity, in NICHOLSON'S Journal, which was followed by six others :t the last of which appeared in January, 1801. In these Papers I showed that oxygen and hydrogen were evolved from separate portions of water, though vegetable and even animal substances intervened; and conceiving that all decompositions might be polar,+ I electrised different compounds at the different extremities, and found that sulphur and metallic substances appeared at the negative pole, and oxygen and azote at the positive pole, though the bodies furnishing them were separate. from each other. In the same series of papers I established the intimate connexion between the electrical effects and the chemical changes going on in the pile, and drew the conclusion of the dependence of one upon the other. In 1802 I proved that galvanic combinations might be formed from single., metals, or charcoal and different fluids chiefly acid and alkaline, .and that the side or pole of the conducting substance in contact with the alkali was positive, and that in contact with the acid, negative; and in the same year I published, that when two separate portions of water, connected by .moist bladder, or muscular fibre,t were electrised, nitromuriaticacid appeared at the positive, and -fixed alkali at the negative-pole.t Inthe same -year Dr. WOLLASTON placedNIcHOLSOW'S jou rnal, Vol. IV. p. I9q. t Ibidp-p Z75, 32.6, 337, 394, 380. I Journal of the Royal Institution, i8oZ, First Series. 388 Sir HIJMPHRY DAVY onf the relations of the identity of the cause of galvanism and electricity, which had been always maintained by VOLTA, out of all doubt, by some very decisive experiments. In 1804, MM. HIsINGER and BERZELIUS stated that neutrosaline solutions were decomposed by electricity, and the acid matter separated at the positive, and the alkaline matter at the negative poles; and they asserted that in this way muriate of lime might be decomposed ; and drew the conclusion that nascent hydrogen was not, as had been generally believed, the cause of the appearance of metals from metallic solutions. These valuable observations ought to have explained distinctly the source of the appearance of acid and alkaline substances at the two extremities of the pile, yet the Paper was never translated into English, nor at all attended to; and one of their facts was contradicted by the assertion of, generally, a very accurate observer, Mr. CRUICKSHANK, who in his early experiments mentioned that he had not been able to decompose muriate of lime in the circuit. In 18o5 various statements were made, both in Italy and England, respecting the generation of muriatic acid and fixed alkali from pure water. The fact was asserted by MM. PACcrnoNI and PEELE, and denied by Dr. WOLLASTON, M. BiOT, and the Galvanic Society at Paris.* Mr. SYLVESTER, who* Some writers have very incorrectly referred the origin of these researches to the observations of HISINGEIL and BERZELIUS; Annales de Chem. Vol. Si. i Cap. pag. i67; but these observations were never quoted by any writer of the day on the pretended production of muriatic acid and alkali; and I was not acquainted with them till after my fundamental experiments were finished; and, when in drawing up an account of them, I looked back through the whole series of periodical publications to find accounts of experiments bearing upon the same question, and I believe I first directed the public attention to the value of those researches. electrical and chemical changes. 389 conducted his experiments with some care, stated that if two separate portions of water were electrised out of the contact of substances containing alkaline or acid matter, acid and alkali were generated; so that up to this time the question, whether these substances were liberated from their combinations, or formed from their elements by electricity, could not be considered as decided: a circumstance not so much to be wondered at, when the novel and extraordinary nature of the whole class of galvanic phenomena is considered. It was in the beginning of 1 806* that I attempted the solution of this question; and after some months' labour I presented to the Society the Dissertation, to which I have referred in the beginning of this Lecture. Finding that acid and alkaline substances, even when existing in the most solid combinations, or in the smallest: proportion in the hardest bodies, were elicited by Voltaic electricity, I established that they were the results of decomposition, and not of composition or. generation ; and referring to my experiments of i 8oo, and 18io and 1802, and to a number of new facts, which showed that inflammable suibstances and oxygen, alkalies andl acids, and oxidable and noble metals, were in electrical relations of positive and negative, I drew the conclusion, that the combinations and decompositions by electricity were referrable to the law of electrical attractions and repulsions, and advanced the hypothesis, " that chemical and electrical attraction were produced by the same cause, acting in one case on particles, in the other on masses;" and that the same property, underWhoever will take the trouble to read the Bakerian Lecture for 1 8o6, will be con.vinced of the gradual developement of the whole subject from the investigation respecting the pretended formation of muriatic acid and fixed alkali. * Phil. Trans. 1807.MDCCCXXVI. e E S90 Sir Humpuiy DAVY on the relations of diferent modiftations, was the cause of all the phenomena exhiz bited by dfferent Voltaic combinations. Believing that our philosophical systems are exceedingly imperfect, I never attached much importance to this hypothesis; but having formed it after a copious induction of facts, and having gained immediately by the application of it a number of practical results, and considering myself as much the author of it as I was of the decomposition of the alkalies, and having developed it in an elementary work, as far as the present state of chemistry seemed to allow, I have never criticised or examined the manner in which different authors haveadopted or explained it, -contented, if in the hands of others it assisted the arrangements of chemistry or mineralogy, or became an instrument of discovery. And having now given what I believe to be a faithful sketch of its origin, I shall not enter into an examination of those works which have induced me to make this sketch, and which contain partial or loose statements on the subject, and which refer the origin of electro. chemistry to Germany, Sweden and France, ratherthan to Italy and England and which attribute some of the views of the science, which I first developed, to philosophers who have never made any claim of the kind, and who never could have made any, as their works on the subJect were published many years after i8o6. III. On the modes adopted f]r detecting the electrical states of bodies, and definitions of terms. That the statements made in the following sections may be more distinct, I shall say a few words of thea mode in which the diffierent conditions of electrical action were ascerelectrical and chemical changes. 39 tamned, and describe the manner in which I have used the terms which have been adopted in electro-chemical science In determining the nature of the electrical action in what may be called the closed circle, or the combinations in Which, according to the language used on the Continent, electrical currents exist, I haveemployed instruments constructed upon the same principles as the galvanometer of Professor CUMMING, or the multiplier of Professor SCHWEIGGER. Silver wire, covered with silk, about > of an inch in diameter, was folded round a small wooden frame, so as to fill a narrow deep groove : the two extreme wires were parallel and the convolutions as nearly as possible i'n the same perpendicular: a small tube containing a filament of silk was passed through the centre of the convolutions of wires to which a delicate magnetised needle was suspended, which, when the appa-ratus: was properly disposed, rested with its north pole between -the two extremities of the wires. This instrument, which contained 6o circumvolutions of wire, was found suffib cientlydelicate for most purposes of experiment; but in a few instances, in which very weak electricities were to be determined, I used another apparatus in which the same kind of wire was fastened, in concentric circles, round two portions: of glass tube, in such a manner that radii from the inner circle would have passed through all the wires,, and in which increased, mobility was given to the system by two needles exterior to it and connected with it, placed one above, the other below the central needle, with their poles in the same directions% but opposite to those of the central needle, which was so magnetised that its directive power was neuwtralised by the power of the other two needles,* * This arrangement differs fromn that of M. NOt LE only by a duplication of effect, 392 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY fonX the relations of To illustrate the operation of these apparatus, I shall state, that when the lower terminating wire, which was to the left, or east of the north pole, was connected with a piece of zinc, and the upper one with a piece of platinum, both being in common water, the deviation of the central needle was eight or ten degrees, the south pole turning to the east or left hand; which may be considered as indicating that the current of electricity was from the platinum to the zinc through the wire, and that the surface of-the zinc in the fluid was positive with respect to the opposite surface of platinum; and in using the terms positive and negative, I beg to be understood as applying them to the metallic surfaces in contact with the fluid.. For determining weak electricities of charge, or as it is sometimes called, of tension, I used VOLTA'S condenser connected with BENNET'S electrometer, and sometimes with one constructed on, the principle of BEHRENS, consisting of an insulated gold leaf, or what I found better, a silk filament, made conducting by impalpable charcoal powder, to receive the charge, placed between the poles of a dry pile consisting of 400 circles of silver and gold foil, of the third of an inch in diameter, or 5o of zinc and silver of the same size, with paper intervening; the attraction of the gold leaf or the filament, either to the positive or negative pole, indicates the nature of the charge: and, as in cases of electro-chemical action there are always two corresponding opposite states, I considered the part of the system which touched the conductor as possessing the same electrical state with that exhibited by the leaf I have never however put much dependence upon indications given by this instrument, unless they were confirmed by other results; having found them very uncerelectrical and chemical changes. 39S tain and influenced by the state of the condenser and the atmosphere. IV. On the electrical and chemical effects exhibited by combinations containing single metals and onefluid. I know of no class of phenomena more calculated to give just views of the nature of electrochemical action than those presented by single metals and fluids; and as their results are, with one or two exceptions, entirely new, I shall describe them with some degree of minuteness. When two pieces of the same polished copper, connected with the platinum wires of the multiplier, were introduced at the same time into the same solution of hydro-sulphuret of potassa, there was no action; but if they were introduced in succession, there was a distinct and often, if the interval of time was considerable, a violent electrical effect-the piece of metal first plunged in being negative, and the other positive. This result depends upon the circumstance of the production of a new combination, which is negative with respect to the metal; for after the formation of the sulphuret of copper, the plate of copper that has been first plunged into the solution exhibits the same negative state with respect to polished copper, whether introduced into saline solutions, or alkaline or acid menstrua. The electrical effect therefore does not depend on so simple a condition as would at first appear, and it may be in fact referred to the combinations containing two metallic substances and one fluid. The grey sulphuret of copper is negative, in solutions of hydro-sulphuret, to clean copper, and the superficial coating has apparently similar electrical powers to this substance. 3?94 Sir HUMPH-Y DAVYry on the relations of Copper, in the state of protoxide, is negative, not only with respect to metallic copper, but likewise with respect to the sulphuret; a circumstance which explains many singular and apparently anomalous circumistances with respect to the action of hydro-sulphuret on copper. I have often found the order whiclh I have mentioned, of metallic copper being positive with respect to copper that had been a few seconds in solution of hydro-sulphuret, reversed in a singular and capricious way; but on investigating the cause, I found that the copper was tarnished; and on heating any kind of polished copper strongly, so as to produce a thin coating of oxide any where on its surface, it became strongly negative to copper plunged in solution of hydro-suiphuret: the same effect was produced by the action of acids. There are some singular circumstances connected with the violent and intense chemical action of copper on solutions of hydro-sulphurets, which are worthy of being described;. When a piece of copper connected with the multiplier has been for a minute in strong solution of hydro-sulphuret of potassa, on introducing a piece of polished copper connected wih thie other wire, there is often a violent and momentary negative charge communicated to it, which sends the needle through a whole revolution: it then oscillates, and almost immediately returns, and takes the direction which indicates that the piece first plunged in is negative. This effect conti. nues for some minutes, then becomes weaker; at last the two sides are in equilibrium, and the piece which was first plunged in now becomes positive with respect to the other. The first described of these effects seems to depend upon the discharge, by the clean copper, of the negative electricity accumulated electrIcal and chmical changes. $95 by the contact of the plate first plunged in, before the relative states produced by the metallic contact and the regular ourrents occur; and the second, to the detaching or peeling off of the coat of sulphuret, which has the effect of exposing a clean surface, and which effect is probably occasioned by the oxidation of the positive side of the plate. There are few electrical actions more intense than those produced by the operation of hydro-sulphurets on copper in these different circumstances; so much so, that I have constructed a Voltaic battery which decomposed water, by six combinations, consisting merely of thin slips of copper, of which one half had been exposed to the solution about a minute before the other half: of course, the oxidating surface was on the side of the clean or latest exposed metal. With lead, and alloys of tin and lead and iron, there are the same; phenomena, but much feebler electrical action, the Metallic surface which is first introduced being the negative surface; and the principles of this kind of action are precisely the same as those of copper and hydro-sulphurets. Zinc, platinum, and metals which have no chemical action on solutions of hydro-sulphurets, produce no phenomena of this kind; silver and palladium, which act powerfully with these menstrua, produce very decided effects but the compounds they form in them being positive with respect to the pure metals, the phenomena are the reverse of those offered by the more oxidable metals: the surface plunged first into the solution is the positive surface, and it retains this relation in alkaline, acid, and saline solutions, presenting peculiarities dependent upon the change of surface? which I shall refer to again hereafter. 396 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY on the relations of The production of electrical currents by single metals and single fluids, though most distinct in the cases I have just named, yet occurs generally whenever new substances which can adhere to the metals are produced in chemical action. Thus in acid solutions of a certain strength pieces of the same zinc, tin, iron, and copper, exhibit similar phenomena; $he surface first plunged into the acid being tarnished, or retaining a slight coat of oxide, is negative to the metal plunged in afterwards, and the relation is sustained in saline or alkaline solutions. The same effect is caused by producing a coat of oxide by heat on the surface, or even by applying it artificially. The oxidated surface is negative with respect to the other. Zinc, which dissolves in a strong solution of potassa, giving off hydrogen copiously, exhibits exactly the same phenomena in this Xsolution ; the tarnished metal, or that first introduced being negative with respect to the other. Tin likewise in solution of potassa, having been introduced long enough to have tarnished, is strongly negative with respect to polished tin. Even the noble metals obey the same law. Silver, that has been tarnished by the action of nitric acid, is negative to polished silver in -diluted acid; and gold and platinum, that have been acted on by aqua regia, are negative in that acid to thea-clean metals. The intimate connexion displayed in all these cases between the chemical and electrical phenomena, becomes still more remarkable when the nature of the changes taking places in circles of this kind is considered. Oxygen, which may be considered as negative with respect electrical and chemical changes. 397 to all the metals, and sulphur, which is negative with respect to the oxidable metals, by their combinations with metals respectively positive to them, produce compounds negative with regard to those metals. And in the chemical changes, the results are such as must ultimately restore the equilibrium, hydrogen or sulphuretted hydrogen passing to the negative side, and oxygen to the positive side; so that the oxides are revived; and not only is the equilibrium restored, but the poles sometimes changed. Thus tin that has tarnished in acid, remains for some time negative in solution of alkali, but gradually as the oxide upon it is revived by the hydrogen determined to this surface, it loses its negative power; and the other surface, now tarnished by the action of the alkali, gains this power, whilst the opposite surface becomes positive. V. Of electrical combinations consisting of two imperfrct, and one perfect conductor; or two fluids and a metal, or charcoal. To understand clearly the nature of the action in this kind of electrical combination, it is necessary to consider the nature of imperfect conducting bodies, water, or saline solutions. These bodies may be regarded as having the same relations to electricities of very low intensity, that elastic fluids have to the electricities of glass, sealing wax, or the common machine. They communicate the electrical polarities of the metals, but do not appear capable of receiving such polarities, or at least of retaining them; and the electrical equilibrium, when broken in them seems to be rapidly restored by a new arrangement or attraction of certain of their MDCCCXXVI. 3 F -398 Sir IUMPHRY DAVY on the relations of elements. For instance, if we introduce the positive and negative poles from a very powerful Voltaic battery into the extremities of a basin filled with solution of muriate of lime, and place in the circuit different wires of platinum, every wire will possess a positive and negative pole, and there will be no division of the fluid into two parts, one positive, the other negative ; and when the two wires are withdrawn, they alone having been used, the electrical appearances immediately cease; and metallic wires unconnected with the battery made, to occupy their places, exhibit no electrical phenomena: and in all experiments of this kind, the well known phenomena of the developement of chlorine and oxygen and acid matter at the positive, and hydrogen, alkaline matter, &c. at the negative pole, takes place. Acid and alkaline matters, when perfectly dry and nonconducting, become on contact negative and positive; as I have shown is the case with oxalic acid and lime; but this effect is similar to that of glass and silk, and the results is a common electricity of tension. And when acids and alkalies combine, their union being apparently the result of the same attractive powers acting on the particles which would produce their electrical relations as masses, they exhibit no phenomena of electro-motion ; and such phenomena, when they occur in combinations in which acids and alkalies unite, always depend upon the contact of the metal with the acid and alkaline matter, change of temperature, evaporation, &c. and never on the combination of the acid and alkali. As a different opinion has been lately started, on high authority,* I shall give the proofs of the truth of this my * That of M. BECQUEREL. electrical and chemical changes. 99 early view, which appear to me of the strictest demonstrative nature. A solution of nitre, which is a substance neutral to the contact of noble metals, was introduced into a glass cup containing a plate of platinum connected with the multiplier; pure concentrated nitric acid was placed in another cup, in which there was another plate of platinum joined to the other wire of the multiplier, and the connexion was made by a piece of asbestus wetted in a solution of nitre. At the moment of contact, the needle indicated a strong electrical action, negative on the plate plunged in the acid, and which occasioned a permanent deviation of about 60?. This arrangement was removed from the multiplier, and another substituted for it, in which strong solution of potassa occupied the place of the nitric acid, being in contact with platinum in one cup, and solution of nitre in the other, with the same communications. The deviation was now much weaker, about lo degrees, and the platinum in the solution of potassa was positive. The nitric acid and the solution of potassa were now connected in the arrangement by a piece of clean asbestus, moistened in a concentrated solution of nitre ; the deviation of the needle was to about 650. In this instance there was no chemical action of the fluids on each other; for they had no tendency to mix rapidly with the solution of nitre, which being of less specific gravity than either of the other solutions, remained in the asbestus; and there was no effect beyond that of the metallic contact of the platinum with acid and alkali. A piece of asbestos, of nearly the same size with the other, 400 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of but dry, was now substituted for the moist asbestos, so that the acid and alkali combined by capillary attraction pro-, ducing heat; at first, the deviation was rather less than in the former instance; but as soon as the combination was complete, the needle stood exactly at the same point, proving that no electricity was developed by the combination, any more than by the indirect communication of the acid and the alkali. After trying the effects of the contact of fluid acid upon platinum, by the arrangement. with solution of nitre, and finding that oxalic. acid was the acid among the powerful ones which produced the slightest deviation of the needle, or the smallest negative effect, I employed this acid and solution of potassa, exactly in -the same manner as the nitric acid in the experiment just detailed ;, as the joint action of the acid and alkali on the platinum was only to produce a deviation -of 7 or 8 degrees, it might be, suspected that any electrical action produced by combination might be more easily manifested but no such effect occurred;, and,, whether the communication' was. made: by. combinationthrough dry asbestus or through asbestus wetted. i'n a saline solution, the. effect was precisely the same. Again,-the two surfaces of platinum, were placed in contact with strong solutions of nitre,' and the communication. made, between, them by solution of potassa and nitric acid; there was no electrical action though the chemical combination was intense. But when the fluids. were mixed, so that a little acid touched one plate of platinum and a little alkali the other, electro-motion immediately began; and. in using muriatic acid-and solition of ammonia, which, being lighter electrical and chemical changes. 401 than the saline solutions, very soon came in contact with the platinum, the effect commenced almost immediately, and continued for some time to increase. Again,-I placed pieces of paper coloured with litmus and turmeric, and moistened in solutions of nitre, upon two surfaces of platinum connected with the multiplier; they were covered with a, stratum of porcelain clay wetted with the same solution, a stratum of clay moistened with muriatic acid was placed above on one plate, and a stratum moistened with solution of ammonia above on the other, so as to make a contact inwhich there should be action upon a large surface without direct communication with, the metals. In several experiments of this kind there was no electro-motion and whenever it was perceived it was found that either the acid, or the alkali, or both, had penetrated through the clay, and touched the metals so as to change considerably the colour of the papers, which were placedas indications of the correctness of the experiment. Having brought forward what appear to, me decided proofs on this subject, I shall now proceed to investigate the operation of the metals and fluids in combinations containing two of the latter substances. At first I; was, surprised to find that platinum acted so powerfully with nitric acid) which undergoes no chemical change by contact with it, and suspectingthat it might arise from the presence of minute portions of muriatic acid or muriatic salts, I took great pains to exclude these substances by washing the platinum indistilled water, not touching it with thc hands, &c. but when the conditions were those of perfectly clean and pure platinum and perfectly pure nitric acid, the phenomena, were the same. Similar 40o Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of reasonings may be applied to solutions of potassa, soda, &c. which do not chemically alter platinum by contact, and yet render it positively electrical with respect to platinum in water or saline solutions. It must however be called to mind that the oxygen in nitric acid, and the metals in the alkalies, have attractions of a very decided kind for platinum; and in taking the scale of clectro-negative bodies, solutions of chlorine, or nitro-muriatic acid, produce a more powerful electrical effect on platinum than nitric acid, nitric acid than muriatic, and muriatic than sulphuric. When platinum is brought in contact with an acid, the pole touching the acid is negative, the opposite pole is positive, as I have found by the condensing electrometer ; and the reverse is the case when it touches an alkali, so that the circulation of the electricity is from the metal to the alkali, and from the acid to the metal. Rhodium, iridium, and gold, act in combinations consisting of acid and alkali, on which they have no chemical effect, exactly like platinum; the surface of the metal in the solution of alkali being positive, that in the solution of the acid, negative. With silver and palladium the electricity is greater, particularly if nitric acid is used; and with charcoal and oxidable metals, there is the same general result, the action being in general exalted in proportion as the chemical attractions are stronger, provided there are no interfering circumstances: and in combinations of this kind nitro-muri atic acid is more active than nitric, and the order is after, nitric, nitrous sulphuric, phosphoric, vegetable acids, sulphurous, prussic, sulphuretted hydrogen, and, with the alkalies, potassa, soda, baryta, ammonia, and so on. electrical and chemical changes. 403 It is always to be understood that strong or concentrated solutions of acids and alkalies are employed; for in cases where the quantity of acid or alkaline matter is very small and the chemical action of the metals strong, there is sometimes a diffIrent order. Thus zinc and tin tarnish immediately even in a weak solution of potassa, and, so tarnished, they are negative to the same metals in weak solutions of muriatic or sulphuric acid; but in experiments of this kind it is easy to determine the true circumstances by changing the poles the negative side, when the energies of the alkali and acid are weak will be determined by the tarnish or coat of oxide formed. Solutions of sulphurets act in these combinations like alkali, with circumstances depending upon the formation of new compounds according to the law explained in the last section. In combinations, of which the elements are hydro-sulphuret and acid, the metal in the hydro-sulphuretted solution is positive, and that in the acid negative; but with alkalies and hydro-sulphurets, and zinc and tin, the metal in the solution of alkali is positive, and that in the solution of hydro-sulphuret negative: with silver and palladium the opposite order occurs, and with copper there is nearly a balance of powers, or changes of power, dependent upon the circumstances detailed in the last section. When, in electrical combinations containing one metal, water, or a neutro-saline solution is in one of the cups and alkali or acid in another, the result is usually such as might be anticipated,-the side of the metal in the alkali is positive, that in the acid negative, and that in the neutro-saline solution in the opposite state. There are however certain neutro404 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of saline solutions, which when they contain oxygen or common air, act upon the more oxidable metals, and such have a power or energy of their own thus zinc, and tin, and copper in solution of common salt, are positive to the same metals in distilled water; and the surfaces -of the same metals in weak muriatic acid are positive with respect to the surfaces in water or saline solutions. In combinations, in which weak and strong solutions of acids or of alkalies are the two fluids, both being of the same kind, the electrical action is usually feeble; but the surface in the strongest alkali is most positive, and in the acids the result usually depends upon the nature of the solution'; if oxide is formed and deposited., the strongest acid is negative with respect to the diluted one. The chemical changes produced in combinations of this kind, are best observed in cases where, the metals undergo no change; -for instance,with platinum, diluted sulphuric acid, and solution of potassa. In this combination, hydrogen soon appears on theplatinum in the acid, and a very small quantity of gas, which is probably oxygen, on the platinum in contact with the alkali; and that the acid tends to circulate towards the negative surface, and the alkali towards the positive, is shown by the circumstance of the rapid neutralization of the two menstrua, though separated by asbestus moistened in distilled water. VI. Of combinations consisting of two conductors of the more perfect class, and one fluid. The order in which metallicbodies exhibit electricities on contact, as is well known, is intimately connected with their relative oxidability, the most oxidable metal being positive electrical and chemical changes. 405 with respect to all those below it. This law extends likewise to 'the newly discovered bases of the alkalies and earths. Potassium and sodium, as I have found by bringing them in contact with zinc in a concentrated solution of alkali, are apparently as much positive with respect to this body, as zinc is,-with respect to platinum and gold. There is not however any inherent and specific property in each metal which gives it the electrical character; it depends upon its peculiar state-on that form of aggregation which fits it for chemical change. Thus, zinc in amalgamation with mercury is positive with respect to pure zinc, and the amalgam of tin is in the same state with regard to tin; and the metals of the fixed alkalies in amalgam give the highest positiveenergy to a mass of mercury some thousands of times their weight. In general, the electricities developed by metallic contact are of a stronger kind than those resulting from the contact of metals with fluids, so that they are not capable of being changed by them. For instance: zinc Sin acid is positive with respect to all other metals below it in degree of oxidability, though they are placed in alkalies or solutions of sulphurets: there are however exceptions; for instance, with regard to tin, which, when in a strong solution of potassa is positive to zinc in an acid solution; and with respect to iron, which, though positive with regard to copper in all acid or neutrosaline fluids, is negative to it in solution of sulphurets or of alkalies. 'The electro-motion in these instances produced by the contact of the fluids prevailing over that produced by the contact of the metals. MDCCCXXVI. 3 G 406 Sir HU-MPHRY DAVY ofl the relations of And knowing the energies of the acid and alkaline fluids, it is easy to apply them so as to diminish or enhance the electrical effects developed by metallic contact. If, for instance, in a combination containing zinc and platinum, we use two fluids, and place the acid in contact with the zinc, and the alkali with the platinum, the effect will be exceedingly feeble compared with that produced if the order be reversed, and the zinc be in contact with the alkali, and the platinum with the acid. The chemical changes taking place in combinations of this kind are always such as tend to restore the equilibrium, the hydrogen and the alkaline body always passing to the negas tive, and oxygen and the acid to the positive metal. There is no instance of continued electro-motion except in cases where chemical changes can take place, for even DE Luc's or ZAMBONI,'S columns do not act when quite dry, and the silver in combinations of this kind, when the negative metal is gold, is uniformly found tarnished: for; the exhibition of electricities of tension,. however, a very slight chemical action is sufficient, as the quantity of electricity required to give repulsion to light bodies is exceedingly small; but to form electro-magnetic combinations the chemical agents must be of aln energetic kind. As most of the fluids which act powerfully in voltaiccome binations containing water, or oxygen and hydrogen, it has been suspected that these principles were essential' to the effect; this however does not seem to be the case, for I found zinc and platinum formed powerful electromotive circles in fused litharge and fused oxy-chlorate of potassa, which are not electrical and chemical changes. 407 known to contain water; and I have little doubt that similar effects would be produced by other fused salts containing only acid: and alkaline matter. It may elucidate this part of the subject, which must at best be obscure, to take a view of the changes occurring in one of the simplest voltaic combinations, that consisting of zinc, platinum, and solution of sulphate of soda. It is a fact that zinc and platinum become electrical by contact, the zinc positive, the platinum negative; and the two kinds of electricity are apparently most intense at the surfaces where they are in contact with the, fluid, which is too imperfect a conductor to allow them to neutralize or destroy each other: they consequently exert their attractive and repellent powers upon the elements of the menstruum; acid and oxygen circulate to the surface of zinc, which in consequence is dissolved, and alkali and hydrogen to thesurface of platinum, of which the hydrogen is disengaged, and the equilibrium broken by the contact of the metals is restored by the che. mical changes; so that a constant circulation, or a current of electricity, takes place, the power of the combination bacoming feebler in proportion as the solution is decomposed, and acid accumulated round its positive, and alkali round its negative surface. In cases where acids or acid solutions alone are used, the destruction of one or both surfaces, with the tranfer of hydrogen or oxygen, seems to produce the same effect; and the inactivity of single circles or Voltaic piles, in which pure water is used or saline solutions freed from air, seenis to show that the destruction of the sufface ofthe oydiable 408 Sir HumMPHRY DAVY on the relations of metal is one of the conditions of continued electrical action; and the cessation of the power of DE Luc's or ZAMBONI'S piles, is always connected with the tarnish of the imperfect metal employed in them. Having published many years ago tables of the electrochemical relations of metals, which have been copied into many elementary books, I think it proper to give them here in a corrected form with some additions, and the differences dependent upon the nature of the menstruum. The metal mentioned first is positive to all those below it in the scale. With common acids. Potassium and its amalgams; barium and its amalgams amalgam of zinc ; zinc; amalgam of ammonium (?); cadmium, tin, iron, bismuth antimony (?), lead, copper, silver, palladium, tellurium, gold, charcoal, platinum, iridium, rhodium. With alkaline solutions. The alkaline metals and their amalgams: zinc, tin, lead, copper, iron, silver, palladium, gold, platinum, &c. With solutions of hydro-sulphurets. Zinc, tin, copper, iron, bismuth, silver, platinum, palladium, gold, charcoal. VII. On the accumulation of electricity, and the chemical changes it occasions in Voltaic arrangements. In the view of electro-motion adopted by the illustrious inventor of the pile, the metals were considered as the only electrical and chemicalchanges. 409 agents which:, in proportion to their surface and their number, occasioned the constant circulation of a certain quantity of electricity through the fluids, or the connecting wires in the pile; and the chemical changes occurring in these fluids were considered as mere results, and not necessarily connected with the circulation. The inactivity of combinations where no chemical changes occur, is sufficiently hostile to this view; but an examination of some of thle, circumstances of the construction of compound electrical combinations will bring this hypothesis, and that which I have ventured to adopt, more distinctly into comparison. Let a piece of zinc and a piece of platinum, both in glasses filled with a solution of nitrate of P'otassa, be connected through the multiplier, and let the glasses be joined by asbestus moistened with the same fluid; the needle will mark electrical action: let the two glasses now be joined by an arc composed of zinc and platinum, in, such a manner that the order is Voltaic, i. e. that the zinc is opposite to the platinum, in the original combination-the effect will be increased. Now let an arc of pure zinc be introduced; the effect will be less than with the double arc, but superior to that with the asbestus, and the pole of the zinc opposite the platinum will oxidate and that opposite the zinc will give off hydrogen. Let arcs of other metals be substituted for the zinc; for instance, of tin, of iron, of copper, of silver, of-tellurium: the electrical effects will diminish with the oxidability of the metal; and with tellurium, which does not oxidate at the positive pole of a Voltaic -battery, they will be destroyed .and the case is the same with rhodium, palladium and pla410 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY On the relations of tinum, That the effect does not depend upon any circumstance connected -with conducting power is eviden-t; for charcoal, which is a very imperfect conductor, acts like an oxidable metal ; and a very fine wire of platinum, terminated by a small piece of oxidable metal, acts more efficiently when the oxidable metal is opposite the negative pole, than if the whole chain had been composed of oxidable metal; but entirely destroys the effect when the oxidable metal is opposite the positive pole. If the contact of the metals only was necessary for continued electro-motion, these results, in which a simple homogeneous chain is interposed between the fluids, would be impossible; but they are a necessary consequence of the electro-chemical theory, in which the destruction of the positive surface by the chemical negative agent is regarded as a necessary condition ; and platinum and tellurium acted like zinc, when their surfaces opposite to the platinum were plunged into diluted nitro-muriatic acid. If two, three, or four glasses are used, and two, three, or four arcs of platinum and zinc, the extreme metals of which are connected through the multiplier a piece of platinum used instead of one of the arcs will not now entirely destroy the electro-motive effect,: it will be diminished as if one arc had been removed. The two will act as a single combina-. tion; the three as two arcs, and the four as three and of course in a Voltaic combination of too arcs, a single piece of platinum substituted for any. one of the arcs, will diminish the power of the apparatus only 1 part In attempting to protect copper by zinc, in a separate electHcal and chemical changes. 411 vessel, from the action of sea water, I found that when the two vessels were connected by moist tow or vegetable substances, or by a wire (even though fine) of any oxidabile metal, the protection was complete but when even a thick wire of platinum was employed, the copper, though in immediate contact with the zinc, became corroded. After the experiment had continued several days, the surface of the platinum opposite to the copper was found tarnished, as if it had been slightly acted upon by the chlorine combined in the sea water; but this effect had been too feeble to be connected with any sensible degree of electrical polarity in the platinum. This result, with those mentioned in the preceding pages, seems to show that there can be no accumulation of electricity in Voltaic combinations, unless the same or similar conditions of chemical change exist in the elements or single circles composing them; and that under other conditions, the power generated in single circles is either destroyed or diminished according to the opposing nature, or want of conducting power of the chain of intervening bodies. For instance, in the arrangement (mentioned p. 409) of one piece of zinc and one of platinum, the power is doubled by another series of the same kind, destroyed by an arc of platinum, and diminished by an arc of zinc; by a second solution and a second arc of zinc, it is diminished still. more; by a third it is nearly, and by a fourth absolutely, destroyed. A the chemical changes always. tend to restore the electrical equilibrium destroyed by.. the contact of the metals 4192 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of with each other in the fluids, it is evident that in cases in which arcs primarily inactive are connected with those primarily active, the chemical changes produced by the electrical attractions must tend to produce in the primarily inactive parts of the combination an arrangement which must give it a power in direct opposition to that of the primarily active circles; so that when separated, their actions, if any, must be directly the reverse of the other. This result, which I anticipated, I have actually found to be correct; six arcs of platinum in vessels filled with solution of nitre, were connected with a Voltaic battery of 50 pairs of plates; of course each arc gave off oxygen, and collected acid round the pole in the place of the zinc, and afforded hydrogen and collected alkali round the pole in the place of the noble metal: onl separating the six arcs from the battery, they were found to possess independent action, the poles which were negative being positive, and those positive being negative: in short, the combination acted as if an original one, consisting of acidi, alkali, and platinum. With arcs of zinc, the 'results were of the same kind, but the electrical effects were much more distinct: as the' tarnished zinc in this case added its own negative power to that produced by the contact; with the acid. In trying similar experiments with six arcs of tin, silver, copper, and other metals, and using different saline solutions, it was found that the reversed electrical effects were most powerful with the m-nost oxidable metals, and the most concentrated and'most decomposable solutions; and the weakest arrangement of this kind was with arcs of platinum and pure electrncal and chemical changes. 413 water; yet even in this instance the water had become slightly alkaline at one pole, and acid at the other. These experiments, showing the nature of the chemical changes in combinations made active by their connexion with Voltaic batteries, and the influence of the newly developed chemical agents, fully explain the phenomena of the secondary piles of M. RITTER; and combined with the fact, that the metals are not PERFECT conductors for electricities of very low intensity, they offer a simple and adequate solution of the circumstances observed by M. DE LA RIVE on the interposition of different metallic plates in the fluids connecting together Voltaic combinations.* From the nature of the chemical changes taking place in each single circle of a common Voltaic battery, it is evident, that if any small part of a battery for some time in action, is separated from the whole, and made to act as a distinct combination, its powers must be feebler than if it had been originally an independent series; for the electrical action occasioned by the chemical agents developed in it, are such as to counteract the effects produced by the contact of the metals. Whereas, if a small Voltaic series is connected with a much larger one, in reverse order, its oxidable in the place of the noble metals, though the whole power of the combination is much weakened by it when in union; yet, when separated it must act with much greater power, as the chemical changes produced are exactly of the kind which must enhance the primary power of the metals. This deduction (a necessary consequence of the electrochemical theory) I have* Annales de Chimie et de Physique, Tom, xxviii. p. I90.MDCCCXXVI. H 414 Sir HutmPHRY DAVY on the relations of proved by direct experiment. A series of 6 arcs composed of zinc and copper and solution of nitre, was connected in the proper order with a Voltaic arrangement of 5o pairs, and . suffered to remain in connexion for. io minutes; they were then separated, -and made to act as a single. battery: their powers were extremely feeble, not certainly. one-third as great as those of a combination of the same kind which had been in action -(.but unconnected), for the same time Six arcs of copper and ziic; were now connected with the same battery of 5o, in a revese or unconformable manner, so that the six plates of zinc gave off hydrogen and attracted alkali, and the plates of copper ioxidated . and -attracted acid. Being separated after a few minutes, and made to act alone, they exhibited powers which appeared three or four times greater than if they had never been ill connexion; the zinc resumed a much higher positive, and the copper a higher negative state, than if they had not before been in the antagonist or unconformable conditions. All these facts bear upon the same point, and confirm the view which I took of the nature of Voltaic combinations in the Bakeri'an Lecture for 18o6 in all of which, whether the destruction of the electrical equilibrium -is produced by the contact of metals or fluids, it is alwaysl restored by chemical changes, and in which the circulation, if it may be so called depends upon a union of these causes, the direction of the currents being always opposite in the metallic and fluid parts of the combination, so as to produce what may be regarded as anelectrical circle. electrical and chemical changes. 15 VIII. General observations and practical applications. To explain the manner in which different chemical'agents in combination, and in a perfectly neutral state, instantly start into an active existence, when exposed to the two electrical poles, it is necessary to" assume principles, and take views of corpuscular action of a perfectly novel kind; and'as the chief agents are invisible, and probably imponderable, no direct demonstrative evidence can be brought forward on the subject; and' different hypotheses may in consequence be applied to it. In assuming the idea of two ethereal, subtile, elastic fluids, attractive of the particles of each other, and repulsive as to their own particles, capable of combining in different proportions with bodies,'and according to their proportions -giving them their specific qualitiesl and rendering them equivalents masses, it would be natural to refer the action of the poles to the repulsions of the substances combined with excess of one fluid, and the attractions of these united to the excess of the other fluid-; and a history of the phenomena, not unsatisfactory to the reason, might in this way be made out; but as it is possible likewise to take an entirely different view of the subject, on the idea of the dependence of the results upon the primary attractive powers of the parts of the combination on a single subtile fluid, I shall not enter into any discussion upon this obscure part of theory, but I shall endeavour' to clear the way for elucidations of it by stating some experimental results. 41f6 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY On the relations of Some solution of nitrate of potassa was introduced into a glass basin of six inches in diameter, and large slips of paper, tinged with litmus and turmeric were placed below the fluid, and connected with two pieces of foil of platinum;, so that the indications of the formation of acid and alkali, in any part of the basin, by electricity, would be instant and distinct. The two pieces of foil were now connected with the poles of a Voltaic battery it was found that the alkali was developed only at the point or immediate surface of the negative platinum, and the acid in the -same manner at the surface of the positive platinum; and they then gradually diffused themselves through the fluid in a circle round the conductors, and there was no appearance of any repulsions or attractions of the menstrua in the line of the circuit. In various repetitions of this experiment the same result was obtained; the alkaline and acid matters were influenced in their direction only by currents produced by the disengaged oxygen or hydrogen, or the inclination of the vessel; in short, by mechanical causes only: and the same effects were produced on the test papers, as if a spherical piece of acid and an amalgam of potassium had been introduced in the places of the two poles. Mr. HERSCHIEL has shown, by some elaborate and ingenious experiments in the last Bakerian Lecture, that an amalgam of potassium, containing so minute a portion as some hundred thousand parts of its weight is strongly attracted so as to occasion violent mechanical motion, by the negative pole in a Voltaic arrangement: and if it be supposed that the fluid is divided into two zones directly opposite in their electrical and chemical changes. 417 powers to the poles of the battery, the virtual change may be regarded as taking place in the two extremities of these zones nearest the neutral point; so that by a series of decompositions and recompositions the alkaline matters and hydrogen separate at one side, and^ oxygen, pure or in union, at the other. In this way, the two electricities may be regarded as the transporters of the ponderable matters, which assume their own peculiar characters at the moment they arrive at the point of rest. I shall detail an experiment which I made under a different form some years ago, and which may assist the Imagination in the conception of this-singular and mysterious mode of action. A flat glass basin, lo inches in diameter, was filled with water containing I'ndth part of its weight of sulphate of potassa, in the bottom of which so or 40 separate globules of mercury, containing from io to loo grains each, were placed without any regard: to order;v two wires of platinum from a battery of looo double plates, weakly charged, were made to connect the extremities of the water (passing to the bottom of the basin.) As soon as the electrical communication was made, the globules of mercury in or near the current became instantly agitated ; their negative poles became elongated, and approached either the positive pole of the battery, or the positive pole of the contiguous globules of mercury, and streams of oxide flowed with great rapidity from the positive toward the negative pole. No hydrogen appeared at the negative poles of the globules of mercury; but after the action had continued a few minutes and was then suspended there was an appearance of some 418 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations of minute globules, owing, as was proved by tests, to the formation ands oxidation of potassium which had combined with the mercury, andwhich, as is evident from Mr. HERSCHEL'S researches, had given to that, part of the globule in which it had combined its high electro--positive qualities. When. the connexion was again made, the same series of constant and violent mWotions took place y the elongated and negative extremities of every globule moving towards the positive surfaces, and undergoing continual oscillations; but on pouring a small quantity of muriatic acid into the water, so as to make it slightly acid, these phenomena: ceased the masses of mercury resumed their spherical form, hydrogen was given off from the negative surfaces, and all motion and agitation were at an end. The energy of the acid in this case being negative, may be considered as neutralizing the power of the potassium by its immediate contact, and as destroying all the phenomena of attraction by the positive pole.< In the numerous experiments that I made in i8o6, on the transfer of acids to the positive pole and of alkalies to the negative pole, there were similar instances in which masses of acid or alkaline matters, by exerting their own peculiar energies, prevented the accumulation of the antagonist ele-. ments at their points of rest, so as to destroy, or materially weaken, their power -f motion or transport. For instance, in attempting to transfer baryta from the positive to the negative pole, thenegative pole being plunged in sulphuric acid, or sulphuric acidto the positive pole, the negative being plunged in a solution of baryta, the re-agents were neutralized, andS formed insoluble precipitates at the point of electrical and chemical changes. 419 union of the menstrua -and no baryta reached the negative, and no sulphuric acid the positive pole. With muriatic acid and salts of silver the case was the same. And when acids and alkalies, forming soluble compounds, were used in similar experiments, a great length of time was required, proportional -in some measure to their masses before a particle of acid reached the positive, or of alkali the negative pole;and the result was not destroyed till after the interm ediate combination had taken place to a -considerable extent; proving the phenomena of continued decompositions and re-compositions, and showing that the electrical and chemical phenomena are of the same order, and -produced by the same cause. In the Bakerian Lecture for 18o6, I proposed the electrical powers, or the forces required to dis-unite the elements of bodies, as a test or measure of the intensity of chemical union. By the use of the multiplier it would be now easy to apply this test; and accurate researches on the connexion of what may be called the electro-dynamic relations of bodies to their combining masses or proportional numbers, will be the first ,step towards fixing chemistry on the permament foundation of the mathematical sciences. I could enter into some other general views of the pure scientific relations of this subject, and its connexion with thermo-electricity and the phenomena of cohesion; but having already taken up so much of the time of the Society,, I shall defer what I have to say on these subjects to another occasion, and I shall conclude with a few practical observations. A great variety of experiments made in different parts of 420 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY on the relations of the world has proved the full efficacy of the electrochemical means of preserving Tnetals, particularly the copper sheathing of ships; but a hope I had once indulged, that the peculiar electrical state would prevent the adhesion of weeds or insects has not been realized; protected ships have often indeed returned after long voyages perfectly bright,* and cleaner than unprotected ships, yet this is not always the case; and though the whole of the copper may be preserved from chemical solution in steam vessels by these means, yet they must be adopted in common ships only, so as to preserve a portion,-so applied as to suffer a certain solution of the copper; + and an absolute remedy for adhesions, is to be. sought for by other more refined means of protection, and which appear to be indicated by these researches. The nails used in ships are an alloy of copper and tin, which I find is slightly negative with respect to copper, and it is on these nails that the first adhesions uniformly take place: a slightly positive and slightly decomposable alloy would probably prevent this effect, and I have made some experiments favourable to the idea. In general, all changes in metals which would indicate the power of chemical attraction, are easily determined by electrical means. Thus I found copper hardened by hammering * The Carnebrea Castle. t A common cause of adhesions of weeds or shell fish, is the oxide of iron formed and deposited round the protectors. In the only experiment in which zinc has been employed for this purpose in actual service, the ship returned after two voyages to the West Indies, and one to Quebec, perfectly clean. The experiment was made by Mr. LAwRENCE, of Lombard-street, who in his letter to me states that the rudder, which was not protected, had corroded in the. usual manner., electrical and chemical changes. 49 i negative to rolled copper; copper (to use the technical language of manufacturers) both overpoled and underpoled, containing in one case probably a little charcoal and in the other a little oxide, negative to. pure copper. A specimen of brittle copper, put into my hands by Mr. VIVIAN, but in which no impurity could be detected, was negative with respect to soft copper. In general, very minute quantities of the oxidable metals render the alloy positive, unless it becomes harder, in which case it is generally negative. As I have mentioned before, amalgams of the oxidable metals are usually positive, not only to mercury, but even to the pure metals. There are probably few chemical operations which electrical changes do not influence, and either increase or modify. In the rusting of iron, for instance, the oxide formed by the contact of moisture. becomes the negative surface, and exalts the oxidability of the mass of metallic iron, and the rust consequently extends in a circle. The precipitations of metals have been already traced to causes of this kind, and many metallic solutions must belong to the same order of phenomena. I have pointed out in former papers some of the cases of electro'chemical protection, which I have no doubt, when the principles are well understood, will be generally adopted; and others are constantly occurring. I shall mention one,_ the preservation of the iron boilers of steam engines by intro-. ducing a piece of zinc or tin, This in the case of steam boats, particularly when salt water is used, may be of the greatest advantage, and prevent the danger of explosion, which generally-arises from the wear of one part of the boiler. MDCCCXXVI. 3 422 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the relations, &c. Another application of importance which may be made, is the prevention of the wear of the paddles; or wheels, which are rapidly dissolved by salt water. But I will conclude. Whenever a principle or discovery involves or unfolds a law of nature, its applications are almost inexhaustible; and however abstracted it may appear, it is sooner or later employed for common purposes of the arts and the common uses of life. 