[539] XXII. The Case of a young Child, at Houghton in Huntingdonshire, born with all its Bones displaced: Communicated Febr. 8, 1746. by Mr. Edward Davis, Surgeon at Huntingdon, to Dr. Herman Heincken in London. B E I N G desired to see a young Child, who, they told me, was born with all his Bones displaced, I visited it, and found both the Radius and Ulna of the right Arm, with the Bones of the Carpus and Metacarpus, also the Forefinger and Little-finger of the same Hand, all dislocated. The Radius and Ulna of the left Arm were dislocated, and receded from each other; likewise the Fore-finger and Little-Finger of the same Hand. The Os Femoris of the right Leg was dislocated very oddly, and laid downwards, so that one might feel the End of it: The Patella laid high up the Thigh; and the Tibia and Fibula at their Union with the Os Femoris were also dislocated, and receded very much from each other. The right Leg, the Tibia and Fibula, at their Union with the Os Calcis, also the Os Calcis, and the Tarsal and Metatarsal Bones, likewise most of the Toes. The left Leg, the Fibula, with some of the Metatarsal Bones, and and some of the Toes. The Head, upon Examination, likewise is very curious: the lambdoidal Suture is ossified all round, and rises with a Prominency half an Inch high: The occipital Bone has several Risings, which feel like several Exostosis's; and the two protuberant Sides of the occipital Bone are enA a a a larged Read May 14. 1747. [540] enlarged to a prodigious prodigious, and unite with each other, but leave a Dent between them which feels like a Suture. They are enlarged, I believe, to six Inches long, and three broad: It is all ossified; the Midwife and Nurse say it was soft at first: The rest of the Head appears very well. This Child is seven Days old: I have reduced the dislocated Bones, tho' some with great Difficulty; for the Ends of the Bones and Cartilages seemed to be all ossifying; and there seems to be an universal Anchylosis coming on. I could not reduce the right Foot well; it was all ossified, with the Bones displaced, and the Extensor Pedis Pollicis longus was contracted, and had drawn the Foot almost round. The Jaw-Bone was also dislocated, which the Midwife could easily put in its Place, and the Chin-Stay supported it very well; that is, almost well, only apt to slip out on one Side. The Midwife and Nurse say, they could easily, for the two first Days, put all the Bones in their Places with Ease, but they continually fell out again. The Mother receiv'd a Fall a Fortnight before Delivery, and she fansies the Bones were displaced with the Fall, tho' she did not hurt herself: But whether it is from thence, or from some Vice in the Fluids, I shall not determine. If it were not for several Exostosis's and Anchylosis's in several Parts, I should have imagin'd the Child (tho' so young) were rickety; but for the above Reason it cannot be that. The Child seems at present lusty and strong, but I think will soon be otherwise; the Woman is lusty, and walks out about her Business, tho' but a Week ago deliver'd; and she has six Children besides, all very healthy. [541] healthy. I intend, if the Child dies, to do what I can to get it, and make a Present of it to the Royal Society. XXIII. 