P H I L OS O PIJ I C A L OF THE ROYAL SOCIET,-Y OF LONDON. FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXXXv. PART I. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET. MIDCCCXXXV. ADVERTISEMENT. THE Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries, till the Forty-seventh Volume: the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued. But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors. It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, A 2 upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects inventions and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society, ROYAL MEDALS. HIS MAJESTY KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, graciously Commanded a Letter, of which the following is an extract, to be addressed to the Royal Society, through His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, K.G., President: " Windsor Castle, March 25, 1833. "It is, His Majesty's wish,"First, That the Two Gold Medals, value of Fifty Guineas each, shalt "henceforth be awarded on the day of the Anniversary Meeting of the "Royal Society, on each ensuing year, for the most important discoveries "in any one principal subject or branch of knowledge. "; Secondly, That the subject matter of inquiry shall be previously settled "and propounded by the Council of the Royal Society, three years pre"ceding the day of such award. "Thirdly, That Literary Men of all nations shall be invited to afford tIe "aid of their talents and research: and, "Fourthly, That for the ensuing three successive years, the said Ti wo "Medals shall be awarded to such important discoveries, or series of "in "vestigations, as shall be sufficiently established, or completed to the "C satisfaction of the Council, within the last five years of the days of award, "for the years 1834 and 1835, including the present year, and for which "the Author shall not have previously received an honorary reward. (Signed) "H. TAYLOR." The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836, to the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for Vi insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836 to the mnost important unpublished paper in Animal Physiology, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Royal Medals for the year 1833 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCJIEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Paper on the Investigation of the Orbits of Revolving Double Stars; and to PROFESSOR AUGUSTE PYRAME DE CANDOLLE, of Geneva, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his Discoveries and Investigations in Vegetable Phvsiology. Those for 1834 were awarded to JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, EsQ., V.P. & TREAS. R.S., for his Papers on the Tides published in the Philosophical Transactions; and to CHARLES LYELL, ESQ., for his Work entitled "Principles of Geology." The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 27th, 1834,) and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper, to be entitled "Contributions towards a System of Geological Chronology founded on an examination of fossil remains, and their attendant phenomena," such paper to be communicated to the Royal Society after the present date (December Ist, 1834,) and prior to the month of June 1837. C O N T E N T S. I. THE BAKERIAN LECTURE.-On the Proofs of a gradual Rising of the Land in certain parts of Sweden. By CHARLES LYELL, Jun. Esq. F.R.S. . . . . page 1 II. Note on the Electrical Relations of certain Metals and Metalliferous Minerals. By R. W. Fox. Communicated by DAVIES GILBERT, Esq. F.R.S. . . . 39 III. Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Ninth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, *sc. 41 IV. On the Determination of the Terms in the Disturbing Function of the fourth order as regards the Eccentricities and Inclinations which give rise to Secular Inequalities. By J. W. LUBBOCK, VP. and Treas. R.S.. .57 V. On the Results of Tide Observations made in June 1834 at the Coast Guard Stations in Great Britain and Ireland. By the Rev. WILLIAM WHEWELL, F.R.S. Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge . . . . . . . 4 . . . 83 VI. On certain Peculiarities in the Double Refraction and Absorption of Light exhibited in the Oxalate of Chromium and Potash. By Sir DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LL.D. F.R.S.. 91 VII, Second Essay on a General Method in Dynamics. By WILLIAM ROWAN HAMILTON, Member of several Scientfic Societies in GreatBritain and in Foreign Countries, Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland. Communicated by Captain BEAUFORT, R.N. F.R.S.95 VIII. Continuation of aformer Paper on the Twenty-five Feet Zenith Telescope lately erected at the Royal Observatory. By JOHN POND, Esq. A.R. F.R.S . . 145 IX. Some account of the Eruption of Vesuvius, which occurred in the month of August 1834, extractedfrom the Manuscript Notes of the Cavaliere MONTICELLI, Foreign Member of the Geological Societq, and from other sources; together with a Statement of the Products of the Eruption, and of the condition of the Volcano subsequently to it. By CHARLES DAUBENY, M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S. eSc. Professor of Chemistry and Botany in the University of Oxford . .a. ..e. 153 l Vaill g X. On the Atmospheric Tides and Meteorology of Dukhun (Deccan), East Indies. By Lieutenant-Colonel W. H. SYKES, FRS. L.S G.S Z.S. Vice-President of the Statistical and Entomological Societies. . page 161 XI. Geometrical Investigations concerning the Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism. By THOMAS STEPHENS DAVIES, Esq. F.R.S.LondandEd. F.R.AS. Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.221 XII. Researches towards establishing a Theory of the Dispersion of Light. By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A. F.R.S. Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .249 APPENDIX. Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council. PHILOSOP HICAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LO N D O N. FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXXXV. PART IL. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLIRET1 STREET . DIDCC CXXXV. ROYAL MEDALS. HIS MAJESTY KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, graciously Commanded a Letter, of which the following is an extract, to be addressed to the Royal Society, through His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, K.G., President: "Windsor Castle, March 25, 1833. "It is His Majesty's wish,"First, That the Two Gold Medals, value of Fifty Guineas each, shall "henceforth be awarded on the day of the Anniversary Meeting of the "Royal Society, on each ensuing year, for the most important discoveries "in any one principal subject or branch of knowledge. " Secondly, That the subject matter of inquiry shall be previously settled "and propounded by the Council of the Royal Society, three years pre"ceding the day of such award. " Thirdly, That Literary Men of all nations shall be invited to afford the " aid of their talents and research: and, "Fourthly, That for the ensuing three successive years, the said Two Medals shall be awarded to such important discoveries, or series of in"vestigations, as shall be sufficiently established, or completed to the "satisfaction of the Council, within the last five years of the days of award, "for the years 1834 and 1835, including the present year, and for which "the Author shall not have previously received an honorary reward. (Signed) "H. TAYLOR." The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836, to the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for Vut insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836 to the most important unpublished paper in Animal Physiology, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Royal Medals for the year 1833 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Paper on the Investigation of the Orbits of Revolving Double Stars; and to PROFESSOR AUGUSTE PYRAME DE CANDOLLE, of Geneva, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his Discoveries and Investigations in Vegetable Physiology. Those for 1834 were awarded to JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, EsQ., V.P. & TREAS. R.S., for his Papers on the Tides published in the Philosophical Transactions; and to CHARLES LYELL, EsQ., for his Work entitled "Principles of Geology." The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 27th, 1834,) and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper, to be entitled "Contributions towards a System of Geological Chronology founded on an examination of fossil remains, and their attendant phenomena," such paper to becommunicated to the Royal Society after the present date (December 1st, 1834,) and prior to the month of June 18370 R 0 Y A L MEDALS. HIS MAJESTY KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, graciously Commanded a Letter, of which the following is an extract, to be addressed to the Royal Society, through His Royal Highness the DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G., President: "Windsor Castle, March 25, 1833. "It is ISIS MAJESTY'S wish,"First, That the Two Gold Medals, value of Fifty Guineas each, shall "henceforth be awarded on the day of the Anniversary Meeting of the Royal Society, on each ensuing year, for the most important discoveries in any one principal subject or branch of knowledge. "Secondly, That the subject matter of inquiry shall be previously settled "and propounded by the Council of the Royal Society, three years pre"ceding the day of such award. " Thirdly, That Literary Men of all nations shall be invited to afford the "aid of their talents and research. And, " Fourthly, That for the ensuing three successive years, the said rwo "Medals shall be awarded to such important discoveries, or series of in"vestigations, as shall be sufficiently established, or completed to the satisfaction of the Council, within the last five years of the days of award, for the years 1834 and 1835, including the present year, and for which "the Author shall not have previously received an honorary reward. (Signed) "I-I TAYLOR" t iv The Royal Medals for the year 1833 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Paper on the Investigation of the Orbits of Revolving Double Stars; and to PROFESSOR AUGUSTE PYRAME DE CANDOLLE, of Geneva, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his Discoveries and Investigations in Vegetable Physiology. Those for 1834 were awarded to JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, EsQ., V.P. & TREAS. R.S., for his Papers on the Tides published in the Philosophical Transactions; and to CHARLES LYELL, ESQ., for his Work entitled " Principles of Geology." Those for the present year have been awarded to MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L., for his Investigations and Discoveries contained in the Series of Experimental Researches in Electricity, published in the Philosophical Transactions, and more particularly for the Seventh Series, relating to the definite nature of electro-chemical action; and to SIR WILLIAM ROWAN HAMILTON, Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland, for the Papers published by him in the 16th and 17th volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, entitled "Supplement to an Essay on the Theory of "' Systems of Rays," and more particularly for those Investigations at the conclusion of the third and last Supplement, which relate to the discovery of Conical Refraction. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836, to the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836 to the V most important unpublished paper in Animal Physiology, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 27th, 1834,) and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper, to be entitled " Contributions towards a System of Geo" logical Chronology founded on an examination of fossil remains, and their attendant "phenomena," such paper to be communicated to the Royal Society after the present date (December 1st, 1834,) and prior to the month of June 1837 :-but in case no paper is presented to the Society fulfilling the conditions implied by the above Resolution, or possessing sufficient merit, the Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper in Geology and Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the present date and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper on Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 12th, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in the Philosophical Transactions, after the present date (November 19, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. CON TE N T S XIII. Continuation of the Paper on the Relations between the Nerves of Motion and of Sensation, and the Brain; more particularly on the Structure of the Medulla oblongata and the Spinal Marrow. By Sir CHARLES BELL, F.R.S. &c. page 255 XIV. Experimental Researches in Electricity.--Tenth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian Prof Chem. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, 8sc. Ssc. 263 XV. Discussion of Tide Observations made at Liverpool. By JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, Esq. V.P. and Treas. R.S. .275 XVI. Remarks on the difficulty of distinguishing certain Genera of Testaceous Mollusca lby their Shells alone, and on the Jnomalies in regard to Habitation observed in certain Species. By JOHN EDWARD GRAY, Esq. F.R.S. ec. . 301 XVII. On the supposed e istence of Metamorphoses in the Crustacea. By J. 0. WESTWOOD, F.L.S. SS Sec. Ent. Soc. Communicated by J. G. CHILDREN, Esq. Sec. R.S. 311 XVIII. On the Ice formed, under peculiar circumstances, at the bottom of running Water. By the Rev. JAMES FARQUHARSON, of Alford, F.R.S. . . . . 329 XIX. Observations on the Theory of Respiration. By WILLIAM STEVENS, M.D. D. C.L. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in Copenhagen, Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, &Sc. 8Sc Communicated by W. T. BRANDE, Esq. V.P.R.S. . . 345 XX. Disco 'ery of the Metamorphosis in the second type of the Cirripedes, viz. the Lepades, completing the Natural History of these singular Animals, and confirming their affinity with the Crustacea. By J. V. THOMPSON, F.L.S. Deputy Inspector-Generalof Hospitals. Cbommunicated by Sir JAMES MACGRIGOR,1 Bart. M.D). F.R.S. .... . . ...e)44*eeee***355 [ viii ] XXI. On the Double Metamorphosis in the Decapodous Crustacea, exemplfied in Cancer Menas, LmN. By J. V. THOMPSON, F.L.S. Deputy Inspector-General of Hospitals. Communicated by Sir JAMES MACGRIGOR, Bart. M.D. FR.S. 359 Index . . ..365 APPENDIX. Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by or der of the President and Council. 