(136) XII. Proposals for the Improvement of the History of Russia, by publishing, from time to time, separate Pieces to serve for a Collection of all sorts of Memoirs relating to the Transactions and State of that Nation: Printed at St. Petersburg, for the ImperialAcademy of Sciences. By Ger. Fred. Muller, Prof. Hist. Petropol. and F. R. S. Translated from the German by Mr. Zolman. T H E History of the Empire of Russia and its Provinces and Territories incorporate, has, 'till now, laboured under such Difficulties, that it almost seems impossible to produce any System of it under twenty or more Years to come. For this Reason the Academy of Sciences have lately taken a Resolution, for the Benefit of Lovers of History, to begin a Collection of all sorts of short Treatises, and authentick Documents relating to the History of that Empire, and to publish it, from time to time, in separate Pieces, both in the Russian and the German Languages. Their Intention in general is the same with what is aimed at in other Countries, by publishing Collections of Pieces of History and Records, viz. on one Side to gather Materials for a future compleat History, and on the other, to animate such Persons as have already made Collections with this View, to contribute their Part towards the publick Advantage. But their particular View in this Work is to bring to light, from time to time, all that has hitherto remained (137) ed unknown to Foreign Nations about the Russian History, or has not yet been sufficiently enquired into, nor cleared up in printed Histories. For this Reason we shall take the History of the Russian Empire in its largest Extent, so as to comprehend not only the History both Civil and Ecclesiastical, Learned, and Natural, but also the Antiquities, Medals, Chronology, Geography, &c. of that Empire, not only with respect to the Russian Nation, particularly and properly so called, but also with regard to all the other Kingdoms and Provinces subject to the Russian Sceptre, nay, even to the neighbouring Parts of South Tartary. The First Part, which will speedily be published, shall serve for a Specimen, how far these Endeavours will meet with the Approbation of skillful Readers. In case this is well received, we will go on with others every Month, or thereabouts, so as to make up at the End of the Year a sizeable Volume in Octavo, the 12th Part of which shall conclude with a complete Table for the whole Volume. These are therefore to desire such Persons as are provided with proper Materials for our Design, and are enclined to communicate them to the World, in their own Names, or without mention of them if they had rather,'to send them either in the Russian, or any other Language, into the Secretary's Office of the Academy of Sciences, in order to which, the following Specification will shew in what manner the different Materials may be ranged and published. St. Petersburg, Sept. 9, 1732. Specification (138) Specification of the Materials, which are to serv for the intended Collection. I. Extracts and Translations of all the Historical Manuscripts and Chronicles of Russia, as are either already extant, or may hereafter be discovered. As for Instance, out of the Stepennaia Kniga, the Chronicon, or Synopsis Kioviensis, the Chronicle of the Abbot Theodosius of Kiow, the Chronicle of Barlaam Palizin, some anonymous Chronicles, &c. II. Histories of the Lives of the most celebrated Sovereigns of Russia, of either Sex, carefully gathered from proper Accounts, Printed, as well as Manuscripts. For Instance, the Lives of Ruric, Igor, Olga, Wladimir the Great, Wladimir Monomachus, Alexander of Neva, and all the other Czars, Emperors, and Empresses, from Iwan Basilowitz the First, to the present Time. III. Genealogical Accounts and Tables, both ancient and modern, of the Family of the Great Dukes, Czars, and Emperors of Russia. For this I have prepared and drawn up twelve Tables, representing, most distinctly, the Succession of the several Great Dukes, Czars, and Em2 (139) Emperors, from the Great Duke Ruric, down to the present Empress, with their several collateral Branches, as far as there is any Notice to be had of them; Princes who had only Allowances from the Crown; Princesses married, or unmarried; as also, the intruded Sovereigns, who filled the Throne during the Troubles of several Interregnums. IV. A Geographical, Chronographical, and Topographical Description of all the Countries, Territories, and Towns subject to the Sceptre of Russia. For Instance, A compleat Geography of Livonia, Esthonia, Ingria, and Carelia, and afterwards also of other Governments and Territories, taking, at the same time, notice, in a few Words, of the History of each City, or Town. Also, Descriptions of particular Cities, and what is remarkable in them, as Moscow, St. Petersburg, &c. V An Explanation of all the Russian Coins and Medals both ancient and modern. Under this Head succinct Accounts may be given of the diverse Transactions which occasioned the coining of them; particularly, the History of the Arms of Russia, deduced from their Coins and Medals. T~ VI. A (140) VI. A Description of all kinds of Russian Antiquities, Natural Curiosities, &c. For the first, the Imperial Cabinet here will furnish a sufficient Store; as for Instance, Idols of Gold, Copper, and Iron, Ornaments for Dress, Vessels, and other Antiquities, which were from time to time found in Siberia. On the other Head, an Account of the Mineral Waters at Olonitz; the flying Squirrel, the Asbestus, the Mammot, and other natural Curiosities peculiar to Russia and Siberia, not to be met with in other Countries. VII. All that relates to the Ecclesiastical History, or can contribute to the illustrating of it. For instance, of the Idolatry of the ancient Inhabitants of Russia; of their Conversion to the Christian Religion; of the Endeavours used by the Church of Rome for uniting with the Grecian, and particularly that of Russia; of the Succession of the Russian Metropolitans and Patriarchs; of Archiepiscopal and Episcopal Sees, of Convents, &c. VIII. Diverse Transactions relating to the History of Learning in Russia. Such are, A History of the Schools and Academies of Russia; of the Use of Characters, and the Introduction of the Art of Writing; of the Rise (141) Rise and Progress of Printing in Russia; a List of all the Books printed in Russia to this time. IX. Diverse Particulars and Miscellaneous Subjects gathered out of various Parts of their History. For Example; The Conquests of the Country of Siberia, and Kingdoms of Casan and Astracan; of the Manners and Customs of the different Nations of Siberia; of their several Languages; of the planting of America from Siberia; the History of the Commerce of Russia; of the Tribute anciently paid to Russia by the Livonians; the History and Description of the Globe of Gottorp; the History of the Navigation by the North-East Passage; particular Advices concerning the Country of Kamtschatka, &c. X. Extracts of Books and Papers published here by the Academy of Sciences, as far as they chiefly relate and contribute to the ancient and modern History of Russia, Civil or Ecclesiastical, or of Literature and Nature. Under this Article will be ranged, among others, some Treatises of Professor Bayer, relating to the ancient History and Geography of Russia; as likewise, Dr. Duvernoy's Anatomical Accounts which relate to Natural History, with his Description of some Monsters produced in Russia. T 2 Dis(142) XI. Discoveries of Errors committed by Foreign Authors in the History and Geography of Russia. Under this Head the most modern Authors will be chiefly taken notice of, as they are most likely to produce new Mistakes. Accordingly two Treatises lie ready on this Subject, the one containing Observations on M. Strahlenberg's Northern and Eastern Part of Europe and Asia, as also on his Map; the other on the Origines Russicae of M. Schottgen, Rector of the School at Dresden. XII. Diverse Historical and Geographical Accounts of the neighbouring Tartarian Kingdoms and Countries, with which Russia has a constant Intercourse, but are otherwise little known. Such are the Cosacks, the Tartars of Crim, Dagestan, Nagaya, Chiwa, Bucharia, Calmucks, Mongals, and others; of the History of their Government; of the Description of their several Countries, as to their Situation, Manners, Customs, Commerce, Religion, Language, Learning, Arts and Sciences, &c. The Collector and Publisher is to be Gerhard Frederick Muller, Member of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Russia, and of the Royal Society of England, as also Professor in Ordinary of History: But in his Absence, this Work is carried on by his Collegue in the Professorship of History, Adolphus Bernardus Cramer. XIII. An 2 