LEI. Observations on Albumen, and some other Animal Fluids; w ith Remark on, their Analysis by electro-chemical DecompoVsitLion, LY Mr. William Brand,, F. Rf. S. Communicated by fhe Society for the Improvement of A4nimal Chemistry. Read June 15, 18094 SECTION 1. Observations on Mucus and on the Composition qf liquid Albume4. 1 HE results obtained from the chemical analysis of the intervertebral fluid of the squalus maximus, an account.of which is annexed to Mr. HOME'S paper CC On the Nature of the in. CC tervertebral Substance in Fish and Quadrupeds,'"*led me to undertake a series of experiments on mucus, in order to examine the properties of that secretion in its pure state, and to ascertain how far it might be capable of conversion into modifications of gelatine and albumen. 1. Saliva was the first source of mucus to which I directed my attention. In order to separate the albumen, which Dr. BoSTOcK's analysis has shewn it to contain.,t it was agitated for a short time with an equal quantity of pure water; the solution was then boiled and filtered. I considered the clear fluid, which had* Philosophical Tr1 ausactions, iSo9. NI C H 0 LSoN sjournal, Vol. XIV. page 149.MDCCCIIX e 3 C 074, Mr. W. BRANDE'S Observations on Albumen, passed the filter', as a solution of nearly pure mucus; but found, on applying to it the tests of nitrate of silver, and aced late of lead, that it still contained a. very considerable propor.tion of saline matter. The precipitate consisted of muriate and phosphate of silver and lead, in combination with a little animal matter, the odOulr of which was perceptible on exposing it to heat after it had been washed and dried. One thousand grains of saliva, afforded by careful evaporation in a water bath,'resiuumweighing one hundred and, eighty grains, from which twenty grains of saline matter,, consisting of phosphate of lime and, muriate of soda, were obtained by incineration. 2.. The mucus f-rom the trachea, -and that of the ovster were next examined but here the proportion of saline matter was greater thann in the former case, although no traces of albumen couUld be,'detectedc by the usual tests of heat, alcohol and Finding, therefore that the re-agents employed to detect mucUus,* act principally upon the salts which it contains, and' notK merely upon the secretion itself, it became an object of some importance to find out a method of depriving -it of its saline ingredients, by such means as should not affect the mucus. Decomposition by electricity immediately occurred to. me, as the most likely means of attaining the object I had in. view. For this purpose, I procured three glass cups, each capable of holding rather more than a measured half ounce of water; one of these was filled with a. mixture of equal parts of saliva* Nitrate of silver and acetate of lead. Vide TioMSON'S System of Chemistry, Vol, V. page oo. 3d edition; and, NI-choLSo'S Jour al, X1-Jxr and some otlfr h iereanina Fl Fl andpure watcr; this was connected with tile other two, cone tairuing pure 's ater, by filamrents of -xmoistened cotton. The swater in xrone of the cups -was rendered positive, that in the other negative, by a VOLTAIC battery of one hundred and twenty four inch double plates, charged witfh a solution of :nitro-inuriatic acid, in the proportion of one part of the mixed acid to thirty parts of water.*@ By continuing this process} I hoped to decompose -the saline ingredients of tthe saliva, to collect the acid matter in ithe positive, and the alkaline matter in the negative Icup, and thus to leave the mucus and albumen nin the :centre vessel (free from the salts which they contain in their natural state), and to have separated them by boiling distilled water, which would then have afforded a solution of pure mucus. When the action of the -battery had been continued for about lten minutes, a considerable quantity of a-white substance, surrounded, and adhered to, the cotton on the negative side of the circuit, whereas on the positive side no such effect had taken place. I could not at first account for this appearance, conceiving that if it depended on the coagulation of albumen held in son lution. in the saliva, it would have taken place at the positive pole, in consequence of the acid there separated. To ascertain this point, an experiment was made on the albumen of an egg. When the conductors from the same battery were brought within two inches of each other in this fluid, an immediate and rapid coagulation took place at the negative wire, while It was conceived, that this electrical power, though sufficient for the decompos-i tion of the salts, would not materially affect the animal matter. 13 C !A 376 IML NW. BRANDELS Observations on Albumen, only -a thin fhln of albumen collected at the positive wire, where its apparance was readily accounted for, by the separation of a little acid, which reacting on the albumen would. render it solid,; but the cause -of the abundant: coagulation at the negative pole: was not so obvious., This rYsult I amentioned to Mr. DAVY, who immediately offererd an explanation of it, by supposing the fluidity of albus:men to depend upon the presence of alkaline. matter, the searation of which, at the ne0gative pole, would cause it to assume a solid form. I had only to follow up this idea, and shall proceed to state L the principal , experiments which were -undertaken to establish so probable an opinion." I. When coau-tlated albumeil, cut into small pieces, iS boiled i1a distilled water, it imparts a viscidity to that fluid, shewing: that som ething, is retained in solution.. Two hundred grains of the coa-ulated albumen of an egg, were repeatedly washed and triturated in four ounces of diatilIed, water, v hich was afterwards separated bya filter, and evaporated to about one fo irth of its original bulk. It was then examined by the usual tests, and was found evidently alkaline ; it converted the yellow of turmeric to a pale browli, and restored the blue colour to litmus paper, reddened by vinegar ; but it did not appear to effervesce on the addition cf da ilute acid. On evaporating th'is alkaline fluid to dryness, by a gentle heat, a viscid substance, soluble in water, was obtained, This solution, was rendered slightly turbid by anacid; and by the. On referring afterwards to Dr. T HoMSoN'S System of Chemistry (Vol. V page +9X). I fiid that a very sin ilar explanation of the coagulation of alburnen has been tiered by that author, whiich the following experiments will likewise confirm. and some other animal Fluids. 377 application of electricity, from sixty four inch double plates, a copious coagulation took place at the negative pole. So that water, in which the coagulated white of egg has been boiled, is in fact an extremely dilate alkaline solution of albumen. This enables< us also to explain why albumen becomes coagulated simply by heat. When the coagulated white of egg is cut into pieces, a small quantity of a brown viscid fluid gradually separates from i't, as has been observed by Dr. BOSTOCK in his paper onthe prim mary animal fluids. * This I find to consist principally of an alkaline soludion of albumen. It reddens turmeric, and coagulates abundantlty on the application of negative electricity It appears, therefore, that the white of egg, in its fluid, state, is a compound of albumen, with alkali and water; that when heat is appliid ito it, the affinities existing between these bodies are modified; that the alkali, before in chemical combination with the albumen, is transferred to the water, and that this; separation causes the coagulation of the albumen: the aqueous alkaline solution which is thus formed, re-acts upon, the coagitated albumen, of which it dissolves a small portion, and then appears in. the form of the brown viscid fluid, already noticed. The coagulation of albumen by alcohol and by acids, maybe explained by a reference to the principles already laid down. i. Five hundred grains of the white of egg, were agitated with two ounces of pure alcohol. an immediate coagulation resulted, which was rendered more perfect by the application of a very gentle heat. The liquid wasseparated from the@) N X C H O L S 0 NAS Journal, Vol. Xa-Z460 78g Nb.ix4* W.t BRAN3DL'S Observat'ions n Albumen, coagulum by filtration, -and evaporated to half its bulk; whei the usual tests were now applied, alkaline matter Bwas abundantly indicated. In this instance then, the albumen in passing from the liquid to the solid state, gives its alkali to the alcohol. 2. When acids are applied to albumen, these efifect its coeagulation from the same cause: they render it Inore rapidly and more perfectly solid, on account of their supenor affinity for the alkali. The following experiments were instituted with a view to ascertain the nature and quantity of the alkaline matter which exists in liqucd albumen. In Five hundred grains of the liquid white of egg were mixed with two ounces of distilled water, and eposed for half an hour to a temperature of 2120,. The fluid was then separated by a filter, and the coagulated albumen cut into small pieces, and repeatedly washed with boiling distilled water. The filtrated fluid was evaporated to half an ounce by -mea-sure; it had a saline taste, it was somewhat turbid, and slightly alkaline; on cooling, it gradually deposited a few flakes of albumen: it was electrified positively in a small glass cup, connected by washed cotton to another similar vessel containing a little distilled water, negatively electrified by one hundred four inch plates, charged with a solution of nitro-muriatic acid of the same strength as that employed in a former experiment, fresh portions of water being occasionally added in order to compensate for the loss by its decomposition. +bWhen albumen is coagulated by alcoh1, it does not become so perfectly solid as in most other instances, because the separation efcted by the relative affinities is not so complete. and some other anzimal lFuids 879 When the ellectrization had been carried: on in this way for one hour, the cups were removed, and their contents examined.. The fluid in the negatively electrified cup acted rapidly on turiuieric, rendering it deep brown. On evaporation andsubsequent exposure to a low red heat, it afforded a residuum. weighing 5. grains, which had the properties of soda, in a, state approaching to purity. The positive cup contained a little coagulated albumen, and an acid: which was principally, if not entirely the unriatic, was held in solutions by the water: it gave a very copious preci.pitate with nitrate of silver, which became speedily black on exposure to light. When saturated:with carbonate of soda, and evaporated. it aflorded a salt in small cubic crystals, from which the fumes of muriatic acid were developed by the action of the sulphuric. This experirnent shews that, exclusive of soda in an uncornbined state, fluidalbumen contains some muriate of soda.@ We learn, frorm the experiments of Mr. HATCHETT, :hat minute quantities of other saline bodies are likewise present.t In the foregoing experiments, I lhad generally erployed from sixty to threes hundred four inch double plates of copper and zinc but in subsequent researches, made with a view ofMay not a submuiriate of soda exist in fluid albumen ? t After the destructive distillation of coagulated, dry , semi-transparent albumen, there remained 4 a. spongy coal of very difficult incineration ; as towards ithe end of~ {I the process, it appeared vitrified and glazed with a melted saline cott, which was, "; however, easily dissolved by water. The residuum was ag'ain exposed to a long continued red heat, and again treated with water, till, at length, a fSw scarcely "visible particles remained, which as far as such a small qluantiiy would prmit to "be ascertained, p)roved to be phosphate of lime. The portion dissolved by water ,8o Mr. W. BRANDE'S Observations on Albumen, ascertaining the action of lower powers, the effects of which I shall afterwards relate, I find that a battery of twenty-four three inch double plates is sufficient to effect a perfect coagulation at the negative pole, even where the albumen is diluted with so large a quantity of water, as not to be detected bythe usual tests. SECTION II. Observations onl the Composition of some animal Fluids containing Albumen. Finding, from the experiments detailed in the preceding "-section, that albumen may exist in such states of combination, as not to be detected by the usual tests, but separable by electrical decomposition, I was induced to apply this mode of analysis to the examination of animal fluids in generaL i. Saliva. When saliva is boiled in water, a fewv flakes of coagulated albumen are deposited; but this is by no means the whole quantity of albumen contained in the secretion, for on applying the test of negative electricity to the filtered fluid obtained after the separation of the albumen by heat, a copious coagulation and separation of alkali, is produced at the negative pole. A large portion of albumen may therefore exist in a fluid,ce (which was by much the most considerable), consisted principally of carbonate, mixed with a small quantity of phosphate of soda. Ad Five hundred grains of dry albumen afforded 74.50 grains of coal, of which X1.25 ",.were saline matter." Vide "6 Chemical Experiments on Zoophites, with some Observations on the Com"o ponent P-arts of Membrane." Phil. Trans. i8oo. and some otier animal Fluids. 3 incapable of separation by heat, and in the presentt insta ce, not to be detected even by acids, these re-agents producing no effect on the filtered solution, just alluded to. 2, Muci Cf tfie Oyster. The solution of mucus obDtained by agitating oysters in water, exhibits to the usual tests no traces of albumen ; but v heln acted upon by electricity from theNVOLTAIC battery a considerable and". rapid coagulation takes place at tic ba lively electrified wire. ~3. MaczS oJ the Traciea, &c. TIe other varieties of nurcus, as from the trachea, the V140e3 &c. agree vith the former, in affiording abundance of allblumi by electric decomposition, whereas scarcely any traces of thlat substance can be detected by the, tests of acids, heat, or alcohol. In t ese experimnents, alkaline matter was always evolved at the negative, and acid at the positive wire. Minute researcnes, made with a view of ascertaining the nature of the alkalin e awd acid riaher thuis evolved, shexwred, the former to colnsist of soda., with traces of lime; the latter of niuriatic acid, wvit traces of p1tiosphoric acid, in the cases of saliva, a ad mnucus of tXLe trcachlc a _d nose: tlre muucus of the oyster afforded only soda and m ~triatic acid. OK examini-ig the proportious of aikalc anld acid, the former 3eei eme et dvwavs to p)redominate, although v1, the ori0inal fluids, o0 ti ce5-s of ulncombined alkali (as in the white of egg) are to be detected. ii bse result-s le-,id to new i eas re-Specting the coinpos'tiorn KM9ccGI~x 39D 382 MH; . W. BRANDEYS -Observations on Albumet, of mucus: Is it a, peculiar combination of muriate of soda and albumen;? or may it not be a comnpound of soda andd albumen; in whichl the alkali is not separable bythe usual modes of analysis, but which yields to the superior decomposing energy of electricity ? 4. Bile. An immediate coagulation took place 1in this secretion-, at the negative conductor, the albumen being tinged throughout of a greencolour, arising from the colouring matter at the same. time separated.. The relative proportion of albumen-, separable by electricity from different specimens of ox bile, was found' to be liable to considerable variation, so that a detailed. analysis of this fluid, cannot be generally depended upon. I have found: the albu.men in bile to vary in quantity from o.5.. to three per cent..g, and it issomewhat remarkable, that where there is a small quantity of albunen, there likewise the proportion of the re. sinous matter of bile is relatively small. The electro-chemical decomposition. of this fluid, affords",. besides the results just mentioned, a considerable quantity of soda at the negative pole; and at the positive pole, a mixtureof muriatic and phosphoric acids. In this fluid, the separation of albuminous matter at the>> negative pole, is equally evident, though not so rapid, as in most other cases. The conductors from sixty four inch, double plates, highly charged, and immersed within four inches of each other in three ounces of cows milk, during one hour, produced the appearance of curds and whey, the principal part and some other animal Fluids. of the curd being collected in the neighbourhood of thc neg'a tive wire, and -but little at -the positive wire. When this experiment was so conducted, as to collect the products 'n separate vessels, the predominating 'ingredients in thecontents of the negative cup, were soda, and traces of lime; and in the positively electrified vessel, a mixture of muriatic and phosphoric acids. After such decomposition of milk, the serum still affords sugar of milk. 6. The Liquor of the Amnios. An opportunity having offered of examining this secretion, -from the human subject, in its pure and fresh state, I shall mention the general results of its analysis. The liquor of the amnios is almost perfectly transparent, but on exposure to= air becomes gradually turbid, and deposits a white flaky matter. It renders tincture of violets green, and while perfectly fresh does not affect litmus; but sulphuretted hydrogen is soon evolved from it, and then it slightly reddens litmus. When heated, it becomes turbid, and lets fall flakes of coagulated albumen. Acids render it slightly turbid from the ,same cause. Alkalies produce lno change, unless when added in considerable excess: the odour of ammonia is then perceptible. Electrical analysis afforded albumen and soda at the negative pole, and mnuriatic acid at the positive pole. Hence we learn, that the liquor of the amniios has the properties of a dilute solution of liquid albumen,** The difference in the results of the analysis given in the text, and that of VACV .OU ELIN and BRu xvI,, most probably arises from the liquor of the amnios examined by those chemists, not having been perfectly recent, and perhaps mixed with other ecrerdons. Vide Anna-les de CI-imie, XxXIIL p. :270o.$3 D 2 8r. W4 . BRA NDs'Observations on ztlbume,) &CI . Pus.; In the pus of a healthy sore, coagulation took place at both Poles most abundantly, however, at the negative pole. A. slirhit degree of putrefaction having commenced in, the pus which, was examined, I did not pay particularattention to the other products of the experiment. In concluding this section, it may be proper to remark, that the decom-position of liquid albumen by VOLTAIC electricity, takes place in different ways, according to the powver employed. With a comparatively high electrical power, the coagulation g-oes on rapidly at the negative pole, and only very slo-wly at the positive pole; whereas, with an extremely low nower, tlhr coagulation is co-nparatively rapid -at the positive surfa~e, an alkaline solution of albumen surrounding tie ne gative pol. Tlths, whein the conductors from twenty four four inch do ible plates, highly clhargped, were brought within half an in%-l of each other, in, a dilute solution of albur-ni ( consisting of one Part of albumen toP six of water), the; coagulation was considcerably more abundant at the negative than at the positive pole-; but when the conductors were removed fron each oth er to a dista.nce of ei4 ht inches, or When, th v remainedat half an inclh being connected with a battery Of six four inch double plates onIly, the coagu1ati on vas only perceptible at thle positive pole, in consequence of tI-he acid there collected. ience wve, may infer, t at a rapid abstraction of IhaLa is ;ncessary to thle Perfect coagulation of albumen, since, n the cases above alluded tJo.o halb ncn rePiZ$ iolt iona 