An Account Concerning a Woman having a Double Matrix; as the Publisher hath Englished it out of French, lately printed at Paris, where the Body was opened. This Figure(which in the Cut here annex'd is the II.) represents the two * It may be, that that, which is by M. Vassal, Publisher of this * Matrixes, Relation, esteem'd a second Womb, is nothing else, but the true found januar. 6 Matrix lengthen'd, or that, which by Anatomists is call'd Tuba Fal1669.by Benois lopii. See. Bartol. Anatom. Reform. l. x. c 27. and others. Vassal Chirurgeon,opening the Body of a woman of 32. years of age,of a sanguin Constitution, and a masculin port. These two Matrixes were so well disposed by an extraordinary contrivance of Nature, that the True one had conceived eleven severall times, viz. 7. males and 4. femals, all born at the full time, and all perfectly well form'd; but they were at last follow'd by a brother yet a faetus, that was conceiv'd in an adjunct Uterus, in a place so little capable of distension,that seeking enlargement,after it had caused to the Mother for two months and an half grievous symptoms, did at last, being of the age of about 3. or 4. months, break prison, and found its grave in that of its mother, by a very great effusion of blood in the whole capacity of her abdomen; which cast the mother into such violent convulsive motions for 3. days together, that she dyed of them. VVhereupon the said Uassal, after, having embalmed the parts, he had made at his house for a whole month together the particular dissection thereof, before all the most Curious and knowing Physitians, Chirurgeons, Apothecaries, Mid-wifes, and other Searchers of Nature, that are in Paris, thought good to preserve the History thereof by committing it and the Figure of the parts spoken of, to the Press, together with a Table, for better explanation; which we think fit here to annex in Latin: V v v v A Pars. (970) A P ars vaginae. B. Orificium internum Matricis apertae. C. Collum Matricis. D. Cavitas Matricis. E. Linca separans cavitatem Matricis. F. Uteri fundus. G. Duo sinus, inventiin fundo Uteri. H. H. Crasities Uteri. I. I. Ligamentum latum, sive productio Peritonaei lateris stnistri, continens in plicaturasua Vasa deferentia et ejaculantia. K. Arteria Spermatica. L. Vena Spermatica. M. Testiculus. N. Verum vas Ejaculatorium insertum fundo Vteri per sinum ibi inventum. O. Alterum vas Ejaculans, quod ingreditur Collum Uteri,quo cjaculantur mulieres a conceptu. P Tuba Vteri. R. Ligamentum rotundum. S. Ligamentum latum ab ea parte, ubi Spurius hic Vterus formatus est. U. Vena Spermatica. T. Arteria Spermatica. Y. Testiculus. Z. Pars Tubae. 2. Verum vas jaculatorium, quod fundum Uteri ingreditur per sinum supra dictum. 3 Alterum Iaculatorium, abiens in Vteri collum. 4. Pars lacerata a faetu aucto. 5. Faetus eo situ, quo inventus fuit Amnio suo obvolutus. 6. Vasa Umbilicalia. 7. Placenta, substantiae cuidam carnosae adhaerens. 8. Substantia carnosa. 9. Ligamentum rotundum. An Fig. I V D D F O D G O E E H C C B A C N B B B A M P R 