73 1 V. On the Colours of Mixed Plates. By Sir DAVID BREWSTER, K.G.II. F.Il.S. Received October 25,-Read December 14, 1837. TIlE colours of mixed plates were discovered by Dr. THOMAS YOUNG*, and described' in the Philosophical Transactions for 1892. Ile produced them by interposing sir 'ill portions of water, or butter, or tallow between two plates of glass, or two object glasses pressed together so as to give the ordinary colours of thin plates. In this way portions or cavities of air were surrounded with Water, butter, or tallow; and on looking through this corIl)ination of media lie saw fringes or rings of colour six times larger than those of thin plates that would have been produ ced hlad air alone been interposed between tile glasses. These fringes or rings of colour were seen by the direct light of a c ndlle, and began from a white centre like those produced by transmission; but on the dark space next the edge of the plate, Dr. YOUNG observed another set of fringes or rings, complementary to the first, and beginning from a black centre like those produced by reflection. This last set of colours was aliwravs brighter than the first. rThe following is Dr. YOUNG's explanation of these two se'ries of colours. "'In order to understand," says he, "this circumstance, we must consider tha t where a dark object is placed behind the glasses, the whole of the light which cones to the eye is either refracted through the edges of the drops, or reflected froml ti e internal surface; while the light which passes through those parts which are on the side opposite to the dark object consists of rays refracted as before through tile edges, or simply passing through the fluid. The respective combinations of these portions of light exhibit a series of colours of (lifferent orders, since the internal eflection modifies the interference of the rays on the dark side of the object, in the same manner as in the common colours of thin plates seen by reflection. Wken no dark object is near, both these series of colours are produced at once; and since they are always of an opposite nature at any given thickness of a plate, they netr-dize each other and constitute white light+.+ In so far as I know, these observations have not been repeated by any other philosopher; and subsequent authors have only copied Dr. YOUNG'S description of the phenomena and acquiesced in his explanation of them. In taking tip this subject ISince this paper was written I find that this class of colours was discovered by M. MAZEAS, and that his experiments were repeated and varied by M. DUTOUR. t Philosophical fTransactions, 1802. Dr. YOUNG republished the same explanation of mixed plates in 1807 in his Elements of Natural Philosophy. See vol i. p. 470, 787; vol. ii. 635, 680.MDCCCXXXVUI1. L 74 SiR IDAVID) BREW1"STER ON THEp COLOURS OF MIXED PLATES. never doubted the accuracy or the generality of the results obtained by so distinguished a philosopher. I was induced to study the phenomena of mixed plates as auxiliary to a more general inquiry; and having observed new phenomena of colour in mineral bodies, which have the same origin as those of mixed plates, and which lead to conclusions different fron. those of Dr. YOUNG, I am anxious that they should be described in the same work which contains his original observations. Having experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining satisfactory specimens of the colours of mixed plates by using the substances employed by Dr. YOUNG, I sought for a method of producing them which should be at once easy and infallible in its effects. With this view I tried transparent soap, and whipped cream, which gave tolerably good results; but I obtained the best effect by using the white of an egg beat up into froth. To obtain a proper film of this substance I place a small quantity between the two glasses, and having pressed it out into a film 1 separate the glasses, and by holding them near the fire I drive off a little of the superfluous moisture. ?The two glasses are again placed in contact, and when pressed together so as to produce the coloured fringes or rings, they are then kept in their place either by screws or by wax, and may be preserved for any length of time. If we now examine with a magnifier of small power the thin film of albumen, we shall find that it contains thousands of cavities exactly resembling the strata of cavities which I have described as occurring in topaz, quartz, sulphate of lime and other minerals*; and if we lookthrough the film at the margin of the flame of a candle, wee shall perceive the two sets of colours described by Dr. YOUNG, the one upon the luminous edge of the flame, and the other on the dark-space contiguous to it. The first we shall call the direct, and the second, which are always the brightest, the complementaryfringes. If we apply a higher magnifying power to the albuminous films, and bring the edg-e of one of the cavities to the margin of the flame, we shall perceive that both the direct and the complementary colours are formed at the very edge, the complementary ones appearing just when the direct ones have disappeared, by the withdrawal of the edge from the flatne. As the colours therefore are produced solely by the edges of the cavities, their intensity must, cwteris paribus, depend on the smallness of the cavities, or the numberof edges which occur in a given space. When we succeed in forming an uniform filmn in which the cavities are like a number of minute points, the phenomena are peculiarly splendid and we are enabled to study them with greater facility. When the edges of these cavities are seen by an achromatic microscope, and in direct light, neither the direct nor the complementary colours are visible; but if we gradually withdraw the lens from, the cavities a series of beautiful phenomena appear. When the vision first becomes indistinct both the direct and the complementary colours appear at the samne time, specks of the complementary red alternating with brighterEdin. Trans. vol. x. Part I. 407. SIR DAVID BREWSTER ON THE COLOURS OF MIXED PLATES. 75 specks of the direct green light. By increasing the distance of the lens from the cavities, the complementary specks become less and less visible, and we see only the direct green light. In order to study these phenomena by observing the action of a single edge upon light, and to ascertain the effect of an edge when there were no prismatic edges to refract, and no internal surface to ieflect light, I conceived the idea of immersing thin plates of a solid substance in a fluid of such a refractive power, that the thickness of the plates should be virtually reduced to the same degree of thinness as the film of albumen between the plates of glass. The new substance described by Mr. HORNER*, and which I shall call nacrite, furnished me with the means of performing this experirnent. I accordingly inclosed the thinnest films of it between two plates of glass containing balsam of capivi; and I had the satisfaction of observing that the bounding edge of the plate and the fluid produced the identical direct and complementary colours above described. The bounding edge which I selected for observation gave a bright green for the direct, and a bright red for the complementary tint. This edge appeared as a narrow distinct black line, exceedingly well defined, and of a uniform breadth like the finest micrometer wire. It consequently obstructed the incident light and produced the phenomena of diffracted fringes. These fringes, however, were modified by the peculiar circumstances under which they were produced, and exhibited in their tints both the direct and complementary colours under consideration. When the diffracted fringes are viewed in candle-light by a lens placed at a greater distance from the diffracting edge than its principal focus, the middle of the system of fringes corresponding to the diffracted shadow of a fibre is occupied with the direct tint, which we shall suppose to be green; and on each side of this green shadow, as we may call it, we observe very faintly the complementary red tinging what are called the two first exterior fringes. This tinge of red is strongest in the first fringe within the solid edge, or within the green shadow, while it is yellowish in the first fringe without the green shadow.> These effects are inverted if we place the lens nearer to the edge than its principal focus. The phenomena now described appear more distinct if we take an extremely narrow piece of nacrite, having its two edges nearly in contact, and transmitting only a narrow line of light. In this case the two red fringes within the solid edge unite their tints, and become a bright red; and in like manner if we place the lens nearer the solid edges than its principal focus, the two yellow fringes will unite their tints, and become a brighter yellow band. In this last case, when the two bounding edges are still nearer each other, the united fringes, in place of being yellow, will be green, or the same as the direct colour. If we bring the edges of two pieces of nacrite of equal thickness very near each other, having, as formerly, green for the direct, and red for the complementary colour,* Philosophical Transactions, 1836, p. 49.L 2 76o SSIR DAVID BREWSTER ON THE COlOUIIS OF MIXED PLATES. the space between the edges, or between the green bands, will be faint red wo hen the lens is nearer the edges than its principal focus, and yellow when it is further from, them ; but if the edges are brought still nearer, the faint red will become brighter, and the united green bands will take the place of the yellow one. Let us now return to our plate of nacrite with a single edge, having green. and red for the two tints; and let us always suppose that the lens is adjusted to observe the diffracted fringes, that is, that the lens is placed at a greater distance from the diffracting edge than its principal focus. We shall also suppose that the light of the sun passing through a narrow aperture parallel to the diffracting edge is substituted for the light of a candle. Under these circumstances the central part of the systetn of fringes seen by light incident perpenidicularlv, consists of blue*, green, anll yellow light, constituting, as it were, the shadow of the edge, the blue light being on the same side .as the plate of nacrite, and the yellow rays encroaching upon the exterior faint red band already described, the other red band next the blue being more distinctly seen. If we now incline thie incident ray to the plate of nacrite inore than 90?, the faint led band next the yellow gradually becomes brighter, while the other bands becomec fainter; and at the boundary of igbht and darkness all the other bands disappear except this red one whicl i's the complemnen kary colour to the green, (produced bv the union of the blue, green and yellow bands,) and the colour which is seen upon the dark space next the edge of the flame, as described by Dr. YOUNG. If we, on the other band, incline the incident ray in an opposite direction, so that it forms with the plane of the plate a less angle than 990, the red b'and next the blue will now become brighter; and at the boundary of light and darkness, when all the other bands have di sappefred, the red band will afford th'e complementa ry colour to the green. As the edge of the plate of nacrite is rough and unpolished, and accurately perpendicular to the parallel faces, there are no reflected nor refracted pencils, whose combinations with one another, or with the direct ravs, can be employed to account for the complementary colours. The phenomena of mixed plattes, indeed, are cases of diffraction when the light is obstr ucted by the edge of very thin transparent plates placed in a medium of different refractive power. If the plate were opake the fringes would be exactly those which have been so often described, and explained by the principle of interference. But owing to the transparency of the plate, fringes are producecd within its shadow; and owiing to the thinness of the plate the light transmitted th rough it and retarded, interferes with the partial waves which pass through the plate and with those which pass beyond the diffracting edge with undiminished velocity, and modifies the usual system of fringes in the manner which we have described. As the plate of nacrite diminishes in thickness, or as the fluid in which it is I.nmersed approaches to it in refractive density, the central coloured bands, whose union constitutes the direct tint, will diminish in number, and descending gradually in the scale will finally disappear when the retardation produced by the plate does not per* Owing to the small quantity of blue rays in candle-ligt the blue almost disappears in it. SIR DAVID BREWSTER ON TIlE COLOURS OF MIXED PLATES. 77 ceptibly alter the phase of the ray. When the plate, on the other hand, increases in thickness, or the fluid diminishes in refractive power, the central bands wvill become closer and more numerous, and will finally resemble the fringes within the shadow of the ordinary systen. When the plate of nacrite is thicket' at one pirce than another by tile partial removatl of a parallel film, the edge where the increase of thickness takes place produces exactly the same phenomena as the edge of the film that is removed, or of the film that is elevated above the general surface, and hence we are led to look for. the phenomena of mixed plates in minerals, such as sulphate of lime and mica, where a plate of two different thicknesses can be easily obtained. I have accordingly discovered tile phenomena of mixed plates distinctly exhibited in sulphate of lime and mica. A more splendid exhibition of these colours is seen when a stratum of cavities of extr em thinness occurs in sulphate of lime. I have observed such strata repeatedly in the gypsum n from Mont-martre but they are most beautiful when the stratum has a circular form. In this case the cavities are exceedingly thin at the circumference of the cir 'ce and gradually increase in depth towards the centre, so that we have a series of edges increasing in thickness towards a centre; the very reverse of a mixed plate, such as a film of albumen pressed between twvo convex surfaces. The system of rings is therefore also reveise d. the highest order of colours being in the centre, while the lowest are at the circumference of the circular stratum. In many strata of cavities, such as the one which I have engraven in my paper on the new fluids in minerals*, the cavities are too deep to give the colours of mixed plates. Another example of the colours of mixed plates in natural bodies occurs in specimens of mica, through which titanium is disseminated in beautiful flat dendritic crystals of various degrees of opacity and transparency. In these specimens the titanium 'is often disseminated in grains, forming an irregular surface. The edges of these grains, by retarding the light which they transmit, produce the direct and coniplementary colours of mixed plates in the most perfect manner, the tints passing through two orders of colours, as the grains of titanium increase in size towards the interior of the irregular patch. I have observed another example of these colours in the deep cavities of topaz, from which the fluids have either escaped, leaving one or both of the surfaces covered with minute particles of transparent matter, or in which the fluids have suffered induration. Alterly by Melrose, October 18th, 1837.* Edinburgh Transactions, vol. x. Plate IL fig. 33. 