Some Observations made in Mines, and at Sea, occasioning a Conjecture about the Origine of Wind: Imparted by the same Mr. C. One John Gill, a Man well experienced in Mineral affairs, discoursing with me about the Wind and its Origine; declared to me his thoughts concerning the same,as a result of twenty years Experience and Observations of his own. First, He affirmed, that if in digging deep under ground, the Work-men meet with Water, they never want Air or Wind; but if they misse Water (as sometimes it happens, even at 12 or 16 Fathoms depth) they are destitute of convenient Air,either to breath in, or to make their Candles burn. Next, When (as usual) there happens to be a great quantity of a Winters standing water, in a deep Mine, they commonly bring, or drive up an Adit for drawing away such water: But as soon as that part of the Level is made, that any of the standing Water begins to run away, the Men must secure themselves,as well as they can, from danger of being dash'd in pieces against the sides of the Adit: For the included Air or Wind in the standing Water,breaks forth with such a terrible noyse, as that of a Peece of Ordnance, and with that violence, as to carry all before it, loosening the very Rocks, though at some distance in the Work or Adit. Thirdly, he hath observed on several occasions,going to and fro, between London and Plimouth, by Sea, that being in a Calm, that way, which the Sea began to Loom or move, the next day the Wind was sure to blow from that point of the Compass, towards which the Sea did Loom the day before. An Account of Hail-Stones of an unusual bigness, Communicated by D. Nath. Fairfax, with his Reflections on them. This Account came but very lately to hand, though the thing hapned a while agoe; the Ingenious Author thereof, having but newly entred into a Philosophical Correspondence with the Publisher. July, 17. 1666. About 10 in the Fore-noon, there fell a violent B b b storm (482) storm of Hail about the Coast-Towns of Suffolk, tracing along Seckford-Hall, Wood-bridge, Snape bridge, Aldborough, &c. more to the North-ward. The Hail was small near Yarmouth; but at Seckford-Hall, one Hail-stone was found by measure to be 9. Inches about. One of this Town (viz Wood bridge) found one at Melton. 8. Inches about. At Snape-bridge a man affirm'd, that he lighted on one about 12. Inches about. A Lady of Friston-Hall, putting one of them into a Ballance, found it weigh 12 s. 6 d. Several persons of good credit in Aldborough affirm'd, some Hailstones to have been full as bigg as Turkeys-Eggs; (an ordinary Hens-Egg weighs but about 9 s.) J. Baker of Rumborough,driving a Cart on the Heath by Aldborough, had his head broken by the knocks of them through a stiff Country-felt: In some places his head bled; in others, bunnyes arose: The Horses were so pelted, that they hurried away his Cart beyond all command. They seem'd all white,smooth without,shining within. 'Tis somewhat strange, methinks, that their pillar of Air should keep them aloft, if they were not clapt together in the falling; especially at such a time of the year, when the Air is less thickned and its Spring weaker. 