(864) I. A Letter from Dr William Musgrave, F R. S. to the Publisher, concerning a very extraordinary Periodical Haemorrhage. S I R, I Some years since receiv'd an account of a surprizing illness, from the person who had labour'd under it: The same has been attested to me by his Wife and several of his acquaintance, and therefore I think it may deserve Credit. Mr H. formerly a Servant to Queen Dowager, of late to Mrs Jennings, of Burton in Somersetshire; had (from his Infancy, as he has been inform'd, but to his certain knowledge) from as far back as he can remember, up to the twenty fourth year of his age, a Periodical Haemorrhage in one of his Thumbs. The Time of the Eruption was about the full of the Moon, seldom more than a day before or after it. The Orifice (to speak more exactly) on the Right side of the Nail of the Left Thumb. He has not known the Blood to be less in weight at any one Turn, or Periodical Discharge, than four ounces; and is positive, that when he came to be sixteen years of age, the quantity was then encreas'd to half a pound at each eruption; he and his friends having often view'd the quantity, and found it to be thus much. The Manner of the Flux was also remarkable; for, without any Pain of Head, Streightness of Breath, or any signs of Fulness, or other Symptoms whatever observed by him, excepting only a stiffness, on the utmost Joynt of (865) of the said (Left) Thumb; the Blood used to spin out, with a considerable force, on a sudden, in several little streams, and continue so to do, until the greater part of the quantity was discharged. Under this discharge, however copious, he was strong and vigorous to the age of twenty four, from his most early and tender years. At that age (of 24) finding this Evacuation troublesome, and being uneasie under it, he sear'd with a hot Iron the part, which used to open, and give vent to the flux of Blood. I saw that part, it was hard and callous to the diameter of 1/4 of an inch. The searing had stopt the Haemorrhage to the day I took this account, (which was on Dec. 11. 1697,) that is, about twenty years. This stoppage was in its effects very dangerous, and of ill consequence; for within one quarter of a year after it he fell into a Sputum Sanguinis; bringing up from his Lungs vast quantities of Blood. This new Complaint, together with a Cough attending it, reduced him very low; so that his Physician, old Dr Dike of Somersetshire, (a person of great Learning and Experience in our Profession) thought him utterly lost in a Consumption; but by frequent Bleeding, &c. deliver'd him from this Haemoptoe: yet not with that Relief which was expected: For in a very little time the Patient fell into a most violent Colic; from no other occasion (that he could discover) than his late illness, putting on a new form, and the matter settling on the Bowels. This Colic was in good measure overcome by Purging Medicines; but a disposition to it still remains; for he has ever since been often troubled with it (as also with a Spitting of Blood) on the least excess of Cold or Motion. In short, he has, ever since the stoppage of that first Haemorrhage, been weak, sickly, of a sallow, faint look; much impair'd as to health, in comparison to what he enjoy'd (866) enjoy'd during the time of its Periodical Returns; and gives an Argument, That when Nature has chosen, and for some length of time, exercised new and extraordinary methods of Oeconomy, she seems to be as fond of their Continuance, as at other times, and in her most regular state, she is of that which is her most usual and ordinary course. There is a further use to be made of this, and such like Monthly Hemorrhages, in Men; whither by the Thumb, (as in the present case) or per penem; (of which there have been in this Country two considerable Instances in my time) or any other part of the Body. For these Evacuations, being analogous to the Menses in Women, Confute the opinion of all such as derive that Discharge from a Fermentum Uterinum. How can we think the Menses come from such a Local Ferment; when a Discharge, in all respects equivalent to them, takes place, where no such ferment is, or can be suppos'd. II. A 