(142) V. Part of a Letter from Dr. Arthur Bury, to the Reverend John Chamberlayne Esq; F.R.S. concerning the Manuring of Land in Devonshire by Sea-Sand. Compton, March 8, 1708. S I R, I Have your obliging Letter of February 28. accompanied with the Archbishop of Dublin's to the Royal Society, &c. The Burning of the Surface is so much practised in Devonshire, that 'tis elsewhere known by the Name of Devonshiring; but it is used only for bad Lands, and by worie Husbands; for it robs the Ground, as the Good Prelate remarks. Salt quickens dead Land, and is used in the South West part of that Country, which would else be the barrenest, but is now the richest part of it. They go as far as the Sea will permit them at lowest Ebb, and take the Sand in Bags, and carry it on Horse-back 14 Miles into the Country, and spread it upon the Land, and thereby improve it both for Corn and Grass. In other Parts they force their Barren Land, by mingling the Earth with Lime, and casting it upon the Ground. In this they differ, that Crude and single Salt, if strew'd upon the Ground, does not improve, but corrode it; but Lime, tho' unmingled, betters it: but in this they agree, that they produce not Grass fit for their Scythe, but for Pasture, short and sweet, and growing all the Winter; so that their Sheep know not either Hay or Water, nor are their highest Grounds parched by the Sun in the hottest Summer. This is Matter of Fact known (143) known to every Plowman; what I further add, I wish were so to every Gentleman,that by the Marriage of these Male and Female Salts, they might enrich both their Country and themselves. The Sea-Salt is too lusty and active of it self, the Lime has a more Balsamick, but gentler Salt; and regularly joined with the other, is thereby invigorated. How to match these two, Glauber thus directs. Take (says he) Quick-Lime, let it slack by time without Water; then take Salt and Water, mingle them together, and make them into Balls or Pieces, which you please; dry 'em as you do Bricks, then burn them for about two Hours. This Compost will enrich your poorest Land. Were I so devoted to Agriculture, as you suppose, I should remove my Dwelling to such a Situation, as were best accommodated with these three, Lime, Salt, and Coals; and did our Gentry understand this Husbandry, they would so far free Salt from its Tax, as it should be employed upon Land, which is not intended to pay for it. VI. 