2. Fig: 2 3 4 5 5 7 6 8 10 9 Philosoph: Transact:No: 243: 11 13 12 15 16 14 19 17 18 10 9 Part of a Letter from Mr. Edw. Lhwyd to Dr. Martin Lister, Fell. of the Coll. of Phys. and R. S. concerning several regularly Figured Stones lately found by him. I Should have troubled you with some sort of Account of our Travels; which, as you'll find by the inclosed Draughts of figured Stones, has been tolerably succesful. The 8, 9, and 15th we found near the Lhan Deilo in Caermardhinshire; the 11, 13 17, 19. on the Seavern Shore in Glocestershire; the 14th at Gold. Cliff in Monmouthshire; and all the rest in the Isle of Caldey, in this County. The 15th whereof we found great Plenty, must doubtless be referred to the Sceleton of some flat Fish; the 8th and 9th I know not at all what to make of: the rest are Modioli or Vertebrae of Sea Stars: for I have been long since fully satisfied that all sorts of Entrochi and Asteriae must be refer'd thither; not that I conclude (280) clude that either these, or any other Marine-terrestrial Bodies, were ever really, either Parts ~ Exuviae of Animals; but that they bear the same Relation to the Sea-stars, that Glossopetrae do to the Teeth of Sharks; the Fossil Shells to the Marine ones, &c. These are scarce a Tenth Part of our Discoveries in this Kind, the last Year and the present; but some of them being toto Genere new, and the rest Improvements of your own and other Gentlemens Observations, I presum'd this faint Representation of them would be some Diversion to you. My Designer never practis'd before this Journey, but seems to improve daily, and would make something of it could we meet with either some Persons or Books to put him in the Way. You have done me, I doubt not, an unexpressible Kindness, by procuring a Correspondence with Mr. Pezron; I am yet so much a Stranger to his Works, that I never heard of his Name. His Notion of the Greek, Roman, and Celtic Languages being of one common Origin, agrees exactly with my Observations: But I have not advanced so far, as to discover the Celtic to be the Mother-Tongue, tho' perhaps he may not want good Grounds (at least plausible Arguments) for such an Assertion. The Irish comes in with us, and is a Dialect of the Old Latin, as the British is of the Greek: But the Gothick or Teutonick, tho' it has also much Affinity with us, must needs make a Band apart. I shall speedily write to him, and trouble him with a few Queries about their Armorican Antiquities, &c. See the Figure. V. Remarks 