:293 J XV. An Account of the Relistian Tin Mine. By Mr. Joseph Came, in a Letter to Davies Giddy, Esq. M. P. F. R. S. Read May 7, 1807. DEAR SIR, Penzance, April 22, 1807. NWHEN I mentioned the occurrence of pebbles of chlorite shist, cemented by crystalized tin, in the Relistian mine, you expressed a wish to receive a particular account of this novel circumstance. The Relistian mine is nearly on a level with the surroundjug country. The lode has been seen at the depth of 12, 25,50 , 6S, 7s, 81 , and 9o fathoms from the surface. It is of different width in different parts; the extreme width is 36 feet, and in this part it is principally worked. As it extends, east and west. (which is its due course), its width gradually diminishes/,till at the distance of zoo fathoms east it is buts feet wide. It is composed (excepting the metallic' substances) of shist, chlorite,' and quartz. In some parts the shist predominates, and in others the chlorite; 'the quartz is throughout the smallest component part. The engine shaft (see plan (A)) is situated 8 fathoms north of the widest part of the lode (B). In sinking the shaft a flookan (C), about 2 inches wide, was dicovered, bearing a. south-east course, Which cut the lode at an angl.e of S4; and heaved and disordered it. MDCCCVII. Q q 294 ~ ~ Mr. CARNE$'S AcOunt of At the depth of 12,-_ 25, and 50 fathoms, nothing was discovered in the lode but the cavities from which the ore had been taken away during the former period of working the mine. At 65K fathoms in depth were fo und, close to the flookan, a great number of angular fragments of shist, cemented by the same substance. At the depth of 75 fathoms the flookan (C) became 4 inches wide in the shaft (A), and continued of that size forio fathoms; it then became divided into 4 parts or branches (D), each diverging from its former course, and in this state it continued through the lode (B), of which the first 9 feet were composed of copper pyrites (E ), and then was discovered a body of peb-. hies ( F ), nearly i,2 feet square, extending 'in, width to the extreme branches of the flookan. In this part of the lode the shist greatly predominates; of course the pebbles are generally com, posec of shist, cemented in some parts by the same substance or chlorite, in others by oxyde of tin, which is ge-. nerally crystallized, and in some of the crevices there is a little copper pyrites. It is singular that a few pebbles (perhaps not more than half a score) were found of quite a different nature from the others; they were composed of tin in quartz coated with chlorite. The pebbles did not continue in a body to the height of more than 2 fathoms; but scattered bunches, and. single pebbes, were found 4 fathoms above and 6 fathoms below the place in which they were at first discovered. It is only necessary to add, that the lode has since been worked 1iS fathoms deeper than where the, pebbles occurred; it there consistsfor __f/uio .BaZ8is. IVIDCU.C (W]I.IiJateNYI p. -Z94. BM~A i&mx .?$ the Relistian Tin Mine. !95 the most part of chlorite formed in a regular manner; not the least trace of pebbles is to be seen, nor indeed of any disk turbance in the strata. I am, dear Sit, very sincerely yours, JOSEPH OARNTE. Jan'cnwe, Cornwai4Q Q q 