C 201 3XVIII. Observations on the Planet Veguse By William Herschel, LL. n F R. So Read June 13, z79rg. 1 HE planet Venus is an object that has Iong erlgageEl my particular attention. A series of observatioxls upon it, which I began in April, o777, has been continued dowrl to thenpresent time. My first view, when I engaged in the pursuit, was to ascertain thd diurnal rotatiorl of this planetf which, from tht contradictory accounts of CASSINI and BIANCHINI, the former of which states it at hours, while the latter makes it 24 days, appeared -to me to remain unknown, as to its real duration: for the observations of these gentlemen, how widely diffirent soever with regard to time, can leave no doubt but that this planet actually has a motion on its axis. The next objectwas the atmosphere of Venus; of the existence of which also, after a few months observationsS I could not entertain the least doubt. Tlie investigation of the real diametew^ was the third ob ject I had in view. To which may be added, in the last placeS an atterltion to -the construction of the planet with regard to permanent appearances S -such as might be occasioned by, or ascribed to seaS continents, or mountains Dr. [ERSCHEL-S ObservationsThe result of my v:bservations would have been communicated long agon if I had not still flattered myself with the hopes ofsome better success, concerning the diurnal motion of Venus; which5; on accotlnt of tlae density of the yatmosphere of this plallet, has still eluded my constallt attention, as far as concerns its period and direction Everl at this present time, I should hesitate to give the following extract om lny journalsS if it did not seem incumbent upon me 2to examine by what accident I carne to overlook mountains in this planet which are said to be ;; f sgcb enormous heightn as to exceedfour>fire, and even six times the perpendiGular elevatiox of Omboraco,-the hlghest of our mountains 'JX Tlle same paperwllich contains the lines I have quoted gives us likewise many extraordinary relations equally wonderful; such as hints of the various and singular properties of th-e atmosphere of Saturn.t A ragged margin in Venus, resembling the uneven border of the moon, as it appears to a power magnifying from 1 to 4.t One cusp of Venus appear ing pointed, and the other blunt, owing to the shadow of some mountain.§ Flat spherical forms conspicuous on Saturn.ll All which being th:ngs-of which I have never -taken any notice, it will not be amiss to shew, by what follows, that neither want of attention:, nor a deficiencyof instruments, could occasion my not perceivingtbese mountains Qf more than 2,3 miles -in height;$4* this jaggerl border of Ven2gs; and tbeseflat sphericalforms on Saturn. * See Phil. Trans. for x792. Part l:T. page 3-37. f Ibidems p. 3og. t p. 31o, 5 P 3t2 li p 336¢ #* The height of Chimbo-raso, according to Mr. CONDAM I N , iS3200 French toises ;; and the Exlglish mile, by Mr. Dz LA L A N DrE, measures 830. If the mountains in Venus exceed Chimbo-raio six times sill perpendicular elelraw tson,, they must be luore than 23 miles in height. on the Planet Menus203Indeed with regard to Saturn, I cannot hesitate a single molnent to say, thatj had any such thingsas flat spherical forms existed, they could not possibly have escaped my notice, in the numberless observatiorls with 7> lo, 2Q, arld 4ofeet reflectors, which I have so ofterl directed to that planet. Hosvever, if the gentleman who has seen the mountains in . . Venus, has made observations on flat spllerical forms on Saturn, it is to be regretted that he has IlOt attended to the revolution of this plarlet ola its axis, which could not remain an hour unkllown to him when he saw these forms. Last night, for lnstance, I saw two small dark spots on JupiterX I shall llOt call them flat spherical forms, because their flatrless, as well as tlleir sphericity, must be hypothetical; moreover, these two terms seem to me to contradict each other. These were evidently removed, in less than an hour, in such a manrler as to point out, very nearly, the direction and quantity of the rotation of this planet. Before I remark on the rest of the extraordinary relations above-mentioned, I will give a short extract of my observatiorls on Venusn with \ such deductions as it seems to me that we are authorised to make from them. Observatiorts. April 17, 1777. The disk of Venus vvas exctedingly welI defined di-stinct, and bright but no spot was visible by which I could juelge of her diurnal motion. The same telescope shews the spots on Mars extremely well. 7-feet reflector. April e&> 1777. rrhe disk well defined, and bright, but no spot. o-feet reflectorn * May&I,I7930 Dr. HERSGHEL S observatians4February , 1780. No spotonthe diskofVenus diameter ,"X9, mean of three measures. May , l780. No spot* power 449; diameter 17t',2 May 289 1780< No spot, power ;268 and 449; diameter e2',8* May 29, 1780t I viewyed Venus with a 20-feet Newtonian reflector a Spower 4447. lnhe edge of tloe disk was so sharp and w-ell defirled that .there £an be no wish tQ see it better There was no spot of any kind. I could see X1Q progections of any motlutains, though the phase of Venus ;s llOsv suchas would be most favourable fbr . \ shewing them June 19, 1780. There is, on Venusn a bluish, darklsll spot a d c; and anothern which is rather -brightg c e d; they meet xn an angle at c, the place of which is abxt one-third of the tliameter of Venus from the cusp a. See Tab. XXII. fig. oe June 2o, 2:3, 24, 25ff 26, 28, 29, So and July :3 178o. Cont;inued obserfirations were made;upors tllese and other fairlt spots arld dravvlngs of them annexed. The instrument I used was a so-fieet Newtonian reflector, furllislled with no less than five diffierent object speculan some of nYhich were in the highest perfection of figure and polish; the power generallar Soo and +o. 13ut the result of them would laOt give tne the time of the rotation of Venus. For the spots assumed often the appearances of optical deceptions, such as might arise from prismatic aSections; and I was always very unAwilling to lay any stress upon the motion of spots, that -either were extreznely faint and changeable, or whose situa tion could not be precisely ascertained. However? that Ve1RUS has a motion on an axis cannot be on the Planet VenusFdoubted from these observations; and that she has an atmoS.phere is as evident, from the changes I took notice of, which surely cannot be upon the solid bodySof the plarzet. Sept. o8, 1780* No spot on Venus; diameter 38"S. Oct. oo, o780. With a very perfect 7-feet speculum X povver t227, +60, and 9<g-2. No spot visible, diameter Altttg. Oct. oo, 1780. No spotS cliameter 27't,8. Oct. 20, 21, 23, 1780. No spot visible. April a7, 1788. lofeet reflector X power g24. I see some darkish spots on Venus. 7-feet reflector power e27, rthe same appearances but in neither of the instruments are they determined enough to serve for the purpose of firlding the rotation. May es, 1783. zo-feet reflector; a new speculum; power 2$0. 7h sot. No spot visible. 8h sot. There seems to be an ill defined spott gh 15t. No motion can be perceived that may be depended upon, though the figure seems rather advancing towards the centre. May 307 3Xx and June , 6, 783. Spots were observi with lo and 2Ofeet reflectors, and also motion perceived in them. Continued observations were recorded, and a great many figures delineated:. Dece t3 178g. With 460, and 9g2. No spot. No liind of protuberance, or indenture in the line which terminates the illutnination, that might denote a mountain F-eb. lS, 178S. No spot. A new lo-feet Newtonian reflector. April 8 1788. No spot orl Venlls; but she is still at too great a distance forvsuch observations. MDCCXC I I I. g t Dr HERSCHEL}S ObservationsNOY. 30,, 1789. NQ satellite visible. If she has oneX it must be Sess in appearance than a star of the 8tll or gth magniTUDe; PQWer 300+ Dec. 1789* No spot; power g7, Soon and 46O May -23 1791. +O-feet reflector. The light of *Venus is so brilliant that it beco-mes very urleasy for the eye to bear it long. There is no spot orl tl1e disk. I had prepared my apparatus fbr a regular succession of observations with this instrumentS having turned it towards the west, ando put on the round-motion to keep the planet in viewX but found that the great advantage of this telescope which is its superior light, was, on this occasion, not only unnecessary but rather an inxnvenience. Nov. 24 iq9l, Correctionof the clocka Wtty. I took measures of the diameter of Venus with the 20-feet reflector; power S7.; 12h 18t lSt measure 4S/'n486 2d *+6 ,142 3d 45 S14 4th 4tS,814, th 46SO33 6th 46 ,2$-t hIean Of the SiX meaSUreS 45't,8*74 I tOOk fiVe mOre With a POWer Of 300, the mOrning being VEXY fie and C1eAr. onStbe: Planet -Venus*e:OTh 361 1-stmeasLWlre 44",885 2d -45 7°S d 4S l°4 4thASnS22 th4Sn84* Mean of the five measures 445",S7 Mean of the two sets 4t",623 These measllres were taken with a speculum that has beerl lately re-polished, and therefore rquired new tabtes for castillg them up Such tables were made by the following transits. Nov. 25, 179o Transits of equatorial starsX taken to determine the value of the micrometer which -is divided into re volutions of sixty parts each. First set, 2g5X0 23,o 2gS0 23,o , 2S, 23sl 2S,o es,1 2331=23l/f06=2l revolutions; correction+7,2 parts for zero and concave wires. Second set, od",8 16,6 16Jt 16f s6,7 16>6 16, 16,8 1619.> 6n, 16,S8-1tS revolutions , part$. Correct;on + 7,2. By the first setn z part _ o",272g64-Second set _ 273748 Mean of the tsro sets o",2ygG6 In the first set, tlle micrometer was opened to 21 revolutions; and ten equatorial stars were observed to pass from one wire to the other. The opening was afte-rwards changedy and ten other stars were again' observed to pass over the wires ; after which the micrometer was read off, and found to be , revolutions and , parts. sE 2 eo8Dr. HERSGHEL'S Obser7vationsFeb. 4 1*;79*23e Correction of the clock,-o' 28tSogh S5tw y-iet reflector; power wy. The air is very clear and*I see Verlus rery well defined; but cannot perceive any inequalittr on the edge of the planet that might denote a mountain; though the situation is favourable being a little more enlightened than what vwe may call her lastquaryi5;-er With t5) I had a very distinot view for a long tlme; but can not perceive antr inequality on the line which divides light fiom darkness. With 287 I perceive no mountains: with 4go, very distirlct r perceisre no mountains. Tlie terminating line is not so sharply defined as vlle circumference; but no inequality is arisiblet With t;he same power, I see on Sattlrnf the equatorial belt, the shadow-of the ring on Saturn, the shadow of Saturn on the ring, the division of the ringS &G I dv not find any spot on Verlus; so that tllere is no possibility to assign its diurnal motion. March *, 179 3. CDorrection of the clock 2t of/36. 611 Sol 7-feet reflector ) r observed Yenus with many pom7ersf but could perceive no spot by which its diurnal luo tion zazight be ascertairledX April 1793. Correction of the clock-eJ 43ttf9. 9i 9'.7-feet reflector; power 21$. The evening remarl ably finet lshe?re is no spot upon the disk of Venusa by which; its-rotation niight be ascertained. The horns are equally sharp. There is not}ling that has the appearance of a mountairwS like whal; aZe see ln the moon. With 287, very well de finedS appearances are the salne. With 430, rlot the least ap pearaace of any nzoutataiz on the Planet M<enuscSo9April 4, 1793. Correction of the clLock,-2t 45", gh 8'. There is no spot upon the disk of Venus. The horns are perfectly alike. Not the least appearance like the mountains of the moon. With 287 and 4^go, very distinct. April , 1 793. Correction of the clock,-2t 46/',7. 8h 25/. 7-feet reflector; power 21$ 287, alad +30.There are no spots upon Venus, iby which its diurnal motion could be ascertained. The horns are exactly alike; and no inequalityf like the mountains of the moon, is visible. April 6, 1793. Gorrection -of the clock,-t +8",. 9h Ct9/. With the 7-feet reflector; power 4So. There is not kind of spot visible in any part of the disk. The two horns are exactly alike 7 and no appearance of mountains can be perceived. April 7 17gg. Correction of the clockf-2' 49",6. gh 8'. With the 7-feet reflector , power 215, 287, 4So, andt 860. I can see no SpOt upon the disk. Both horns are perfectly alike. Nothing resembling the mountains upon the rnoon can be perceived. I see it beautifully well, and sharply defined. April 89 <79g. Correction of the clock,-21 Sl'liQ. gh 2'. With the lo-feet reflector; power Soo, arld 400o There is no spot upon Venus. The shape of the two 1lorns is perfectly alike, and no appearance of7 lmountains can be per ceived. The illumination of the horns is also perfectly alike. April 9, 1793. Correction of the clock,-2' 52Hf1. Sh 45s. With the to-feet reflector; poner Soo. STo spot upon Verlus. Both horns perfectIy alike. N-o appearallce oiS: mountains. The light of Venus is brighter all around the limb, than on Dr. HERSCHEL'S Qbservatlons21Gthat part which(livides the enlightelled, frorn; the une-dightened part of tlaedisk. With 4co, appeararlces are thfe samefl gh ldt rrhe brigllt part, on the limb of Venus, is li-ke-a brigh: bead, of rlearly an equal breadth-all around.Aprl1z6,l7g. Correctionofthe-c]ock,-21 59/1,5. loh t 7-feet reiS.ector,: with: dil>Serent powers. No spot UpOll tlae disk. ATo nouiltains visible. 13oth horns alike. A lu:rinous margin, as usualn all aroalnd the limb. April 2C)2 z79S. Correctiton of the clock,-' ,",8. loh oJ. 7-feet reflector; power <72n 415? 287 4So and 860. No spot up-on the disk Both horns exactly alike. Not the least appearance of any luountains. With 287, there is a narrow luminous border all around the . . limb, and the liglt afterwards dilalinishes pretty suddenly, and suffiers no considerable diminlltion as we go towards the line svhich t:erluinates the erllightened -part of the disk. It is however less bright near the terminating line than fartller from it. With powers--lower than 287, the narrow luminous horder cannot le sowell distlnguished. April 22, 179,. Correction of the clocka ' ,",9. 9h 3Ot. 7 zfeetreflector power4go. Very distinct. Nospot No appearance of mountains. Bol;h hortls perfectly alike. With 860, z290, and r720, not the least appearance of mountaills. Even the last power is corlsiderably d,istinct. lok got. With 4So, the luminousi margin, compared to the ligllt adjoirling to it, may be expressed by, sudfdenly-much bri<grDter v11 around the limb. April 28, o793. Gorrection of the clock,-' z2",3. o2h ot. 7-feet reflectorS power glG. No spot. Botll horn$ perfectly allke. STo appearance of mountairls. -QX the Planet Venus.211April 29, 179g. Correction of the clock, _ g1 3/,4. xoh Sot. 7-feet reflector; <polwer 21G. No spot. 13oth llorns perfectly alike. Not the least appearance of any mountains. With 28y and 4,3o. Both hors equally sharp : no mountains visible. May , 1793. Correction of the clock,-3' 1!j/t4$. loh +r. With the lo-feet reflector power oo. No spot. Both llorns perfectly alike and very sharp. Ntot the least appearance of arly mountains. With Coo, very distinct. J3oth horns extremely sharp, and alike.ino mourltains. With 4oo, the same appearances. May S, 179g. Correction of the clock,-' 19",8. 1lh 27'. 7-feetreflector; powerg1Sn287,and4go. Both horns perfectly alike. No spot. Not the least appearance of a-ny mountains. May 12n 1793. Correction of the clock,-' 2-7",3. llh lo'. 7feet reflectorS power 215. Beautifully distinct. No spat visible; indeed the crescent is so slender, that we cannot expect to see any spots upon the disk. Not the -least appearance of arly fmountains, or inequality on the border. The slender part of the crescent appears often krlotty but this is evitlently a deception arising frotn undulations in tl-le air; for, with proper attentiorl, the kllots may be perceived to change place. Little scratches in the great, or small speculum, may also oc;asion seeming irregularities f but, with proper attentionS all sucll deceptions may be easily detected. Botl horns perEectly alike. Dr. HERSCHEL'S Obsersations212With eSy, 44So, and 860, all that has been mentioned before is perfectlyt verified, and confirmedG o 43t. I trled also the lowier powers of tt2, and l5; but they are inferaor, irl effiect, to e1S, 287, and +go; and not adequate to the delicacy and Spower required in such observations. I vhave often taken notice, and again this everui.ng, that the illutninated part of Venus is more than a semi-circle. Whether the excess of the sun's diameter alone will account for this, or how far we are to take the twilight of the atmosphere of Venus into considerationS I have hitherto deferred investi gating, as my diskmicrometer wants a moveable paralleln in order to be adjustableS by observationS to the quantity of the horns which is enlightened beyond an hemisphere. May 1S, 17gg. Correction of the clock,-' 28't,4. 1lh 4St. 7-feet reflector, power 1S, 172, 2rS, 287 and 4So. Both horns perfectly alike. No appearance of mountains. The points of the horns appear more blunt than they were last night, and are not drawn out to so slender a point S but this is evidelatly a deception, owing to the indiffierence of the night; for great sharpness, and distinct visions are wanting in every other obje-ct I am looking at. May 18. 179g. C-orrection of the clock,-g' 33stv7. l2h 28'. 7-feet reflectorS power e87. Both horns perfectly alike. No appearance of mountains. No spot. But, at the present altitude of Venus it is impossible to make any obserrrations that require delicacyS and demand very distinct vi sion with high powers o-n the Planet Venus.May 19, s79S. Correction of tlle clock,-' 34")7. 1lh 4St. 7-feetreflector; power287. Bothhornsperfectly alike, in shape and illumination. Not the least appearallce of any mountains. -The horrls are exceedingly elencler. 12h o1 I do not see any diminution of light on the edge of the horlas, but what rr3ay be accounted for frorn their slender ness9 being brought to very fine points, that lose themselves by their minuteness I saw it in great perfectionn with a newly polished, plaila speculum, which excels my fortner one in silarpness. May 20, l793. Correction of the clock,-' g",8. 12h 20/. No spot or unevenness in the light of Venus upon either cusp, or in any other part, that could in the least make me suspect a mountain. I measured the diameter of Venus, and projection of the cusps beyond an hemisphere, by my disk-micrometer. This was not done by an illutninationn as described in the apparatus, (Phil. Trans. Vol. IJXXIII. p. 4.) when I used it for a nocturnal planet S for, day-light being sufficiently strong there was no occasion to light the lamps. On the tneasuring disk were drasvn colicentric circles , and also a diameter, hav ing several lines parallel to it in one of the semicircles. If there had been timeg I should have prepared a straight edge9 b e, moveable parallel to tile diameter a d. See l ab. XXII. fig. 2. Fsirst measure, with the double eye-glass S power about go. Diameter of Vetius 2g90. Projectiotl S°° But the power is too low to be accurate. Second measure ; power 2 l5. Diameter of Venus 48¢o. Projection 623. Here the projection is probably as lnucil too sluall as the former was too large; but the planet i.s too louZ for re MDCCXC I I I. e F Dr. HERSCHEL)S Observations214peating the measu-res. A mean of both may perhaps, not be far from the truthX which gi?es, diameterg,Sg5 projection 560. Here z797, being radius, and $60 sine, we fitld the angle acb, ordvey equal to 18° g' 8",. A few very eviEdent results may be drawll from the foregong observatlons. With regaid to tile rotation of Venus on an axis, it appears that we rnay be assured of this planetJs having a diurnal motion, and though the real time of it is still subject to considerable doubts, it can hardly be so slow as 24 days. Its direction or rather the position of the axis of ATenus, is involved in still greater uncertainty. The atmosphere of V enlls is prol)ably very considerableS which appears not only froln the changes that have been observed in the faint spots on its surfice, but may also be inferred from the illumiination of the cusps, when this planet is near its inferior conjun£tion; where ttle enliglltened ends of the laorns reach far beyond a semicXl^cle. I must here take noticeX that the allthor we have before quoted on this subject has the merit of being the first who has pointed out this inferencef I)ut he has overlooked the penulubra arising from the diameter of the sun; * which has certainly a considerable sllare in X ESe luentions it upon another occasion, and says in a note, p. 3 X 3, that { tJuis whole peHumbra, which, according to the greatest vpparent diameter of Fenus, extends from 59 to 60'8, (xEor wht reason hU fxes upon these quantities does not appear) (' measZIres, ix the direction peapendicular to the line of the cusps, only o",36." But if, according to him, the apparent diameter of the sun be 44', (which is less than it ought to be) the penumbra must certainly exterld likewise upon the surEace of Venus on the Planet Yenus21s the effect of the extended illuminatiorl, and in his angle of w^5 19t will amount to more than two-degrees and a third. His measures are also defecti-ve, as probably the mirror of his t-feet reflector mThich was a very excellerlt oneS was by tllat time considerably tarnished and had lost much of the light rlecessary to shew the extent of the cusps irl their full bril lian. I do not give the calclllations I have made of the sextelzt of the twiligh-t of Venus, because my rneasures vvere not so satisfactory to myself as I wish then tv be S nor so near the conJllnction as we may hereafter olitain thelm ; neither were they sufficiently repeatSed. My computations, however, when compared to those given in the paper on the atmosphere of Venus, shew sufficiently that it is of much greater extent, or refractive power, than has bem computed in tha-t paper. Thosecalculations indeed are so full of inaccuracies, that i-t would be necessary to go over them again, in order to compare them strictly with my own, for which at pres-ent there is . 1 ^ no lelsureO I ought also to take notce here, that the same author, lt seem$, has taken measures of the horns of Venus by an in strument, which, in his publications, he calls a projection table, and d@scribes as his own $ -) of whlch, however those who cle not kllow its construction may have a very perfect idea, when they read the descriptions of my lampg disk, ancI periphery olrer 44+ of a gret cire>; and, in the situxtion which he mentions, that is, 13erpend; cular to the line of the cusps at the time of the greatest elongation} and when the appawnt diameter of Venus +-s 60d, (as he makes it) it must measure o"X38+. + See Beitrage mu dex xeuesl-ex astrononliscben Entduckungen, p. 2I0. Arld S8-ele?o bSogratbisshe fragmente) p. 63. eF 2 6Dr HERSCHEL)S Observationsmicronraetersn joined to what I have mentioned aboure, of using the disk-microlneter without lamps when daylight is sufficieqntly strong S or even with an illumillation in front? where the object is bright enough to allow of it, such as the naoonS &c. I reXxexnber drawing the picture of a cottage by it, in the year 17763 whicll was at three or four miles distance; and gOillg aftervards to compare the parts of it with the building, found t3n1elrz very justly delineated. I have also many times had the honour of shewing my friends r;he accuracy of the method of applying one eye to ., the telescope, and the other to the projected picture of the obJect in view S by desiring them to make two points, with a pin, upon a card fixed up at a convenient place, where it might be viewed in Iny telescope S and this being done, I took the distance of these points firom the picture I saw projected in a pair of proportional coznpasses, one side of which was to the other as the distance of the object, divided by the distance of the image9 to the magnifying power of the te1e8GOPe; and giving the conapasses to my friends, they generally found that the proportional ends of them exactly fitted 4tt}t points tlaey had made on the card. All which experiments are only so alany different ways of using the lamp-rnicro.7neter.f@S to the mountains in Venlls, I may rrenture to say that zo eyen vIhich is not considerably better than mineS or assisted by rntlch better instrulnents, will ever get a sight of them9 though9 from the analogy that obtains between tlle onSy two planetary giobes w-e can colnparea (the moon and the eartll) therez is little doubt but that this planet also has on tbe Planet Venus.7217inequalities orl its surEace, which may be, for what we can say to the contrary3 very considerable. The real diameter of Verlus, I should think, may be inferred with great confide}nce, from the tneasures I took with the go-feet reflector) in the morning of the 24th of Novembera o791; which, wilen reduced to the mean distance of the earth, give 18",y9 for the apparent diameter of ths pbSzet. lthis result ls rather relnarkable, as it seems to prove that Verlus is a little larger than the earth, instead of being a little less, as has been supposed yetg upon tlie nicest scrutinyn I cannot findl fault with the measures The planet was put between the two wires of the micrometer, which wrere outward tangents; andl they were, after each measure, shut, so as to meet witll tlle same edge, and in the same place where the planet was measured. In this situation the proper deductioll, for laot being central measures, was pointed out by the index plate. The transits of tlle 2Sth were corrected for a small concavity of the wires, which being pretty thick and stubborll9 were not strained sllfficiently to luake them quite straight, tlle amount of which was also ascertained by atl examination of the divisioll where the wires closed at the ends, antl wlaere they closed in the centre. The zero was, svith equal precaution, referred to a point at all equal distance fron t]e contact of the xwires on each side; for they are at liberty to pass over each otherX ^rithout occasioning any derangement. rthe s/Jake, or play, of the screw is less than g°tenths of a division. The two planets, however, are so nearly of an equal size9 that it would be necessary to repeat otlr meastlres of the diameter of Venusn in the most favourable circtltnstances, and 2X8-Dr. HERSOHEL}S Observatzonsxvith micrometers adjusted :to the utmost degree of precisior in orcier to decide with perfPect confidence that she is,, as ap pears lnost--likely larger than the earth. The remarkable pliaenomenon of the bright smargin of Venus, I find, has not been noticed lay t;he authorXwe have referred to: on the contraryn it is said, Xpage 3to, ;; tbas lRi>3rDt appears strongest aX -tbe outwxd limb vXb c, f om whe?nce it decrevses gradazally, and in a rvlar progression, towards zhe nterzor edgea or ternzen-ator.' But the [urninous border as I have described itn in the observatiorls of the gth -16t.11, ec.ths and 22d of Apriln does notlin the least agree with tlle (X-love :representation . MTitll regard to the cause of tllis-appearancef I lbelieve that E may venture to ascribe it to the atmosphere of Venus, vllich, like our own is probably replete with lmattKer tha-t reflectsaand refracts Iikht copiously sill all directions T}zereZ fSore on the border, where -we have an oblique view of it, there w*6;ll (:?f consequence be an increase of this lum:;nouszappearasn-ce. I suppose the brlght belts, and pc:>lar-regions of Jupiter, ir instance, which have a greater light than the ef--aint streaks, or yellow sbelts, on that planet, to be the parts where -its atmosphe3ne is most filled with clouds, while the latter are probably th-ose regions which are free from them and admit the sEln to shirle -on the planetX :by which means we hatYe the reflection df the real sutface, w-hich I take to be generally less lurninotls. If this conjecture le well founded we see-the reason whytspots on Venus are so seIdom to be perceived. For, this planet havirlg a dense atme3spher-eS its -real surface w:ill com 4 -JAttt' j X r-tizJ. AIl) C (AN(XE 7zz-4 iSM1 W ri/S ' t 4f A/ ,/ tid0;ff SSkSSEC$ s W<<L \ C 'rX w CuSS n ., *a F a t A, y ^ . C Ct g w the ^"et avst ,l9 magirs be enueloped by i:t so -as not t prest us with y variety of appearancese This also points out the reason why the spots, when any: such tliere aO appear generally of a datk;er golour than thq rest of tbe bQdy. 