IV. An -Analysis of several Varieties of British and Foregn 'Salt, (Muriate of Soda) with a Plew to explain, their Fitness for dffrent economi cal Parposes. By William HenrY, M. D. F. R. S. Vice-Pres. of the Literary and Philosophical Society, and Physician to the Ijirmiary, at Manchester. Read January 25, 1i1ao SECT. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. I N undertaking the series of experiments, described in the following pages, I had not so much in view the discovery of novelties in science, as the determination, by the careful employment of known processes, and by the improvement of mnethlods of analysis, of a number of facts, the establishment of which (it appeared to me probable) might have an influence on an important branch of national revenue and industry. An opinion has for some time past existed, and I believe has been pretty general both in this and other countries, to tie disadvantage of British salt as a preserver of animal food; and a decided preference has been given to the salt procuired from France, Spain, Portugal, and other warm climatesv where it is prepared by the spontaneous evaporation of sea water. In conformity with this opinion, large sums of motley ar: annually paid to foreign nations, for the supply of an. article, which Great Britain possesses, beyond almost any other AJDcccx. N Dr. HENRY'S Analysis of several Varieties country 'in Europe, the means of drawing from her own internal resources. It becomes, therefore, of much consequence to, ascertain, -whether this preference of foreign salt be founded on accurate experience, or be merely a matter of prejudice; and, in the former case, whether any chemical difference can be discovered, that may explain the superiority of the one to the other. Thze comparative fitness of these varieties of salt for the curing of provisions, which has been a subject of much controversy among: the parties who are interested, can be decided, it' is obvious, in no other way, than by a careful examination of the evidence on both sides. Where evidence, however, is doubtful, and where there exists, as in this case, much contrariety, of testimony, it cannot be unfair to yield our belief to that, which best accords, with the chemical and physical qualities of the substances in question. Again, if salt of British production, should be proved to be really inferior in chemical purity to foreign salt, it w would be important to ascertain, as the basis of all attempts towards its improvement, in what, precisely, this inferiority consists. It seemed desirable, also, to examine whether any differences of chemical composition cxist among the several varieties of home-made salt,which ca'n explain their variable fitness for economical purposes. Such were the considerations that induced me to undertake an enquiry which has occupied, for several months past, a large share of my l-eisure and attention.; I began the investigation, wholly uinnfluenced by: any preconceived opinions on tthe subject;-_S and I had no motive to see the facts in any other than their true Ight, sincehave no personal interest, either directly or remotely, in the decision of the question. of British: and Foreign Satt. 91 The principal sources of the salt, which is manufactured in this country, are rock salt, brine spring's and {sea water" iThe first materialis confinedd entirely, and-the second chiefly, though not wholly, to a particular district: of Cheshire. Of the extent and boundaries of this district, the process of maw nufacture, and other circumstances interesting to the minera logist as well as to the chemist, an ample and excellent history has been -given by Mr. HENRY HOLLAND, in the Agricultural Report of the county of Chester.* From his account, I shall extract,, in order to render somne parts of this memoir more intelligible, a very brief statement of the characteristic differences of the several varieties of salt, which are prepared in Northwich, and its neighbourhood. In making the stoved or lump salt, the brine is brought to a boiling heat, which, in brine fully saturated, is 226' of FAHRENHEIT. This temperature is continued during the whole process; and as the evaporation proceeds, small flakey crystals continue to form themselves, and to fall to the bottom of the boiler. At the end of from eight to twelve hours, the greatest part of the water of solution is found to be evaporated; so much only being left, as barely to cover the salt, andr the bottom of the pan. The salt is then removed-into conical wicker basketsltermed barrows; and, after being" well drained, is dried in stoves, where it sustains a loss of about one seventh of its weight. On the first application of heat to the 'brinea quantity of carbonate of lime, and sometimes a little oxide of iron, both of which had been held in solution by an excess of carbonic acid, are separated; and are eitherremoved: b skimmin-g, -or are ,'Pub1ished inl r8o8. N2 9P 1it% I.ENRY'S Anlalyss Of several Varieties alloved to subside to the bottom of the pan, along with the salt first formed, and with some sulphate of lime; and are afterwards raked out. These two operations are called clearing the pan. Some brines scarcely require them at all, and others only occasionally. The whole of the impurities, however, are not thius removed ; for a part, subsiding to the bottom, forms a solid incrustation, termed by the workmen pait-scale. The portion of this, which is lowest, acquires so much induration anld adhesion to the pan, that it is necessary to remove it, once every three or four weeks, by heavy blows vwith a pick-axe. These sediments are formed, also, in making the other varieties of salt. In preparing cormon salt, the brine is first raised to a boiling heat, with the double view of bringing it as quickly as possible to the point of saturation, and of clearing it from its earthy contents. The fires are then slackened, and the evaporation is carried on for 24 hours, with the brine heated to 16i! or i 700 FAHRENHEIT. The salt, thus formed, is in quadrangular pyramids or hoppers, which are close and hard in their texture. The remainder of the process is similar to that of making stoved salt, except that after being drained, it is car ried immediately to the store house, and not afterwards exposed to heat, an operation confined to the stoved salt. The large grainedjiakey salt is made with an evaporation conducted at the heat of 130 or 140 degrees. The salt thus formed, is some what harder than common salt, and approaches more nearly to the cubic shape of the crystals of muriate of soda. Large grained orjlshery salt, is prepared from brine heated only to :0o0 or so i0 FAHRENHEIT. No perceptible agitation, of British and Fotezgn Satl. therefore is produced in the brine and the slowness of the process, which Iasts from 7 or 8 to io days, allows the muriate of soda to form in large, and nearly cubical crystals, seldom hlowever quite perfect in their shape. i For ordinary domestic uses, stoved salt is perfectly sufficient. Common salt is adapted to the striking and salting of provision s, x hich are not intended for sea voyages or warm climates. For inc latter purposes, the large grained or fishery salt is peculiarly fitted-. On the easterr and western coasts of Scotland, and espe. cially on the shores of the Firth of Forth, large quantities of salt ar e made by the evaporation of sea water. In consequence of the cheapness of fuel, tnhe process is carried on, from first to last, bv artificial heat, at a temperature, I believe, equal or nearly so to the boiling point, and varyin g, therefore, accord& ng to the concentration of tche brine. The kind of salt, chiefly forn-ied in Scotland, approachdes mPost nearly to the character of stoved salt. In some places a salt is prepared, termed Szuncay salt; so called, in conseqpence of the fires being slackened betveen Sat rday and Monday, which increases considerably thet size of the crystals. I am indebted to DR. THOM0SON of EdinburgIi ( v'ho rpve me his assistance wVth great ze al ad alacrity) for an opportunity ot1ex amrnini ungw-vpardS of twenty spcifieits o So C otc salt, prepared by difterent uandifa ctiurers. That aistinguishied chenmst, it ayfipears from a letter which he address d to me oa the sUbjct, iwas some time ago engaced in experil-nents On Cheshir e salt. 1Te partic3.lars he has lost; an he r;tains only a general recolectdon of -the facts, which coinfir.ns I a,* Cheshire Reports, p) 53; &C. Dr. HENRY'S, Analysis of several Varieties happy tto state, the: accuracy of the results obtained by my own experiments. At Lymington; in:Hampshire, advantage is taken of the greater heat of the climate, to concentrate the sea water by spontaneous evaporation to about one sixth its bulk, before admitting -it into the boilers. One kind of salt is chiefly prepared there, which most nearly resembles in grain the stoved -salt of Cheshire.The process varies a little, in some respects, from-that which has been already described. The salt is not fished (as it is termed) out of the boiler, and drained in baskets; -but the water is entirely evaporated, and the whole mass of salttaken out at once, every eight hours, and removed into troughs with holes in the bottom. Through these it drains into pits-made under grouhdr, which receive the liquor called bittern rorbitter liquor. Unde'r the, troughs, and in a line with the 'holes, are fixed u'pright stakes, on which a portion Of salt that would otherwise. have escaped, crystallizes and forms, in the course of ten or twelve days, on: each stake, a mass of sixty or eighty pounds. These lumps are called salt cats. Theybear the proportion to the common salt, made fromn the same brine, of i ton to :1-oo. Fromthe mother brine or bitter liquor, which has drained into thepits, the sulphate of magnesia is made during the winter season, wvhen the manufacture of salt is suspended, in -con'seq ence of the want of the temperature required, for the spontaneous evaporation of the sea water. The process is a very simple one.* The bitter liquor fromn the pits is boiledi am} indebted for an account of this process, as well as of the method of making JCOn~MMP Salt at Lymington, to the liberal communication of CHARLES STr. BARJBE, J)9q. orf that place. Though niot strictly coipected with the subject, I give his descripof British and Foreign Salt. 95 for some hours in the pans, which are: used in summer to prepare common salt; and the impurities, which rise to the surface, are remnoved by skimming. During the evaporation, a portion of common salt separates ; and this, as it is too impure for use, is reserved for the purpose of concentrating the brine in summer. The evaporated bitter liquor is then removed into wooden coolers 8 feet long; 5 feet wide, and l footf deep. In; these it remains twenty four hours, during which time, if the weather prove clear and cold,: the sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt crystallizes atthe bottol4 of the coolers in quantity equal to about one eighth of the boiled . liquor. The uncrystallizable fluid is then let off through plugholes at the bottom of the coolers and the Epsoin salt, after being drained in baskets, is deposited in the store-house. This is termed single Epsom salts, and after solutions and-a second crystallization, it acquires the. name of double Epsom salts. Four or five tons of sulphate -of magnesia: are produced from a quantity of brine, which has yielded ioo tons of common, and 1 ton of cat salt. On the banks of the Mersey, near its junction with the Irish Channel, the water of that river before evaporation is brought to the state of a saturated brine, by the addition of rock salt. The advantage of this method of proceeding, will be obvious when it is stated that ioo tons of this brine yield at least 23 tons of common salt, whereas from the same quantity of seation of the mode of making(Y Epsom salt, because no correct statement of the process has, I believe, been hitherto published. The analysis of sea water, indeed, by a justly distinguished chemist (BERGMAN), excludes, erroneously, the sulphate of magnesia from its composition; and his results have led to the opinion, that to manufacture this salt on the large scale, requires the addition either of sulphuric acid, or of some aulo phate to the 6itter liquor. (See Aikin's Chemical Dictionary, 1I. 388.) 916 Dr. HENRY s Analysis of several Varieties water, with an equal expenditure of fuel, only 2 tons 17 cwt Of salt can be produaced. Within the few. past years, an atte mt has been maDde to aj ply rock salt itself to the packing of provisions. For th is purpose it is crushed to the proper size between iron rollers. The trials which have been made, I am informed, are but fewv, aand the results hitherto are nt perfp tly known, The bay saIt inported froit fore.gn co untries is well knovwn to be prepared by the spontaneous evaporation of sea water which, for this purpose, is confined in shtallowv pits, and exposed to the full influence of the sun and air. I have no addition to make to the account of its iranufacture, which have already been given by various writers.1As the results of the investigation, which forms the subject of this me moir, may be acceptable to many persons who can scarcely be expected to take an interest in a long detail of analytical processes, I shall present, 'in the following section, a general view of the experiments, and of the conclusions that may be deduced from them. In the last place, in order that ,other chemists may be enabled to repeat the analyses under similar circumstances, I shall describe minutely, the methods that were adopted, some of which are new, and others reduced to greater precision. If, however, in the future progress of science, it should appear that any of these processes are imperfect, it may still be admitted that, for all useful purposes,See the Earl of Dundonald's "s Thoughts on the Manufacture and Trade of Salt." Londlon, 1785. Encyclop. Method. Art. Salins. (Des Marais Salans) Aikin's Dictionary of Chemistrv It. 224. Watson's Chemistry, Vol. II p. 52. It is necessary to remark, that a great proportion of what is sold in London as bay-salt, is Cheshire large grained fishery salt. of British anid Fore n lat. they afford a fair comparison of the composition of the several varieties of culinary salt; since the sources of fallacy, that may hereafter be discovered, must have been the same in every case, and have produced in each an error of nearly the same amount. SECTION II. GENERAL STATE;M JNT OF THE RESULTS OF THE XPERIMENTS, AND CONCLUSIONS THAT MAY BE DEDUCED FROM THEM. A comparison of the component parts of Britioh and foreign 5alts3 and of diferent varieties of British salt wi Ib '7thcr will best be made by an exami ation of the I C -w'-v IL, tabhlNe vhich comprelhends the results of the analysis o. s2i,, L ! Veg~w -of each variety. -oco parts by veight consist of *. t .. A .....A . ...................,.... _ Muriate Sulph. 'Total Pure of Total Sulph. of Total I immuri.. Kind of Salt. Insol. Muriate Magneearthy ofmag_ sulpuriate of matter. of lime. sia. muriates. lime. nesia. phates. 'ties. soda . . , _. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ies . soda_. St. Ube's -9 a trace 3 3 23124 i 28 40 968 Q 'Q * St. M1 rtin's 2 6 I(. 3I 6 25 9 f Fir I0 do. I 1g1 14 I3S 964 _____________________ I O..t 0.4Ic 4 _t 7 2 3 7 2 i6 z 1354 TSCQth (crtotal) 8 o 8 o f im I anI d1 th q+uaiy o real 4 Q t 0? (ct) X _ i 5~~ 2 3 6 I2 z988T mu crteh ofsoacont In in ac variet of co _mon 4 may See p~~~~g2 999. * DoCC. 0() I _ 1 6 4 I 98 CruT~she oc I 0. __I 0. 3 I I41 6 _L 6 II 6 93 Fihr I8 0 /<< 1-4t 0.3 I I. 1 -_ 152 l9863z , . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 0 I. The toltal amiount of iJmurities, and tlze q ua n t ly' of ral yZ-Zuriate If) SOL-la contained in eachl variety of commton salt, mlay be leartzed. by inlspecting the twvo l~ast columuns of the table. -Fromi th~ese. it appears, that the. foreign bay salt is Purer, See page 9S. )'4 DC C C X O 98 lDr. HENRYs Analysis of several Varieties generally speaking, than salt which is prepared by the rapid evaporation of sea water; but t it is conta rinated with about three times the amount of impUrities, discoverable in an equal weight of the Cheshire Iarge-grained salt,, and with more than twice that of those, that are found in tie stoved and common salt of the same district. II. The insoluble Ynatter in the foreign salt, after the action of boiling water, appears to be chiefly argillaceous earth, coloured by oxide of iron, and is probably derived in part from the pits in which the sea water is submitted to evaporation. We may, perhaps, assign the same origin to the very minute portion of muriate of lime, which is not found in tie salt prepared by evaporating sea vater in metallic vessels, nor even in the mother liquor, or uncrrystalfizable residue. In sea salt prepared by rapid evaporation, the insol ible portion is a mixture of carbonate of -lime with carbonatc of mao-nesia, and fine slicious sand; and in tlae saIt prepared from Cheshire brine, it is almost entirely carbonate' of lime, 7T1he insoluble part of the less pure pieces of rock salt is chiefly a manly earth, with some sulphate of lime. The quantity of this impurity, as it is sta'ed 11 t'he table, is considerably below the average, which in my experimentns has varied from 0o to 45 parts in iooo. Some estimate of its general proportio i, when ascertained on a harger scale, may be formed from the fact, that governument, in lcvyinog the duties, allows 65 lb. to the bushel, of rock salt, instead of 5lb. the ustuaIl veight of a bushel of salt. .ie T 1 e ny Krlates and especiadly that with base of mnap, nesia, abound Tmost in salt which is prepared by the rapid evaporation of sea wvater. Nov snce common salt, in all its of British and Forelit >a11. 9 forms, contains as will afterwards appear, very little water of crystallization, it is probable that the rniuriate of nagesia, dis covered by the analysis of sea salt, is derived entirely from that portion of the mnother liquor, whichadheres to the salt after being drained and which amounts to about I of its weight. The larger tire size ofU tie grain, the less is the quaint tity of this solution which the salt bolds sutspended, and hence the salt prepared at a lower degree of heat, being in larger crystals, is less debased by the mnacnesiann muriate, than the salt formed at a boiling temperatu re& It is probable, also, that when the salt is drawvn at intervals from the boiler, the prow portion of the earthy muriate will vary with the period of the evaporation, at which it is removed. For it nmay readily be conceived, that as the proportion of the earthy muriates in any brine is increased by the separation of muriate of soda, the greater will be the quantity of the muriates which the crystals of common salt, formed in the midst of the brine, will retain; thence it follows, that, so far as the earthy muriates only are concerned, salt must diminish in purity as the process of evaporation advances. In the several varieties of Cheshire salt, the earthy muriates do not exceed one thousandth part of this weight, and they are precisely, (or so nearly so, that the difference is not ascertamnable) the same in all. This will cease to be matter of surprise, when it is considered that the salt obtained by evaporating to dryness the whole of a portion of Cheshire brinle, does not give more than t parts of earthy muriates in moo.In the entire salt of sea water, according to BERGMIAN, the earthy muriates form no less than .21, parts in the same quantity. 0 2 10o Dr. HENRY'S Analysis of several Varieties According to the proportion in which the earthy muriates are present in any kind of salt, will be its power-of deliquescence, or of attracting imoisture from the atmosphere. It is not entirely, however, from, the salts with earthy base, tiat common salt derives this quality ; for thim most transparent specimuens of rock salt, which I find to consist of absolutely pure muriate of soda, attract inuch moisture from a humid atmosphere. IV. T m sul~phate of tragnesia and the sulphate of lime, both enter into the composition of all the varieties of salt prepared from sea xwater; but the sulphate of lime a1one is found in Cheshire salt. The proportion of sulphate of imagnesia is greatest in that variety of sea salt, which has been formed by rapid evaporation. In foreign bay salt, its quantity is very insignificant. From the table it may be seen, that the proportion of suli phate of lime is greater in foreign bay salt, than in any variety of British salt, even than in those w hich are prepared from sea water with a boiling heat. The only explanation of this fact, that occurs to me, is, that during the rapid evaporation of sea water, a considerable part of the calcareous sulphate is precipitated at an early stage of the process, and is partly removed in clearing the boiler, a process, which can scarcely be performedcl uring the formation of bay salt, in pits whose sides are composeI3d of noist clay. The remainder of the selenite, thus precipitated by the rapid evaporation of sea water, enters into the comnpostioni of the pan-scale. In the course of this inquiry, I was induced torepeat the SCM-ne experiments several times, on various specimens of salt bearing the sameo designation ; and was surprised to find, that of British and Forez'n Salt. 1o1t the results by no means corresponded. In one instance, for example, fishery salt was found in iooo parts to contain no less then i6 parts of sulphate of lime; w rhiL another specimen, nominally the same, contained only i1 i parts of selenite in the sam-le quantity ; and a third only 5 4-. At length it occurred to me, that these differences were probably owing to the circumstance of the salt having been taken from the boiler at different periods of the evaporation. I requested, therefore, to be furnished with specirens of salt, drawgn at different stages of the process, from a given portion of brine, evaporated in the same boiler. These were submitted to analysis; and the results are shewin in the following table. Common salt drawn from the boiler, 2 hours l S hime. of after the first applica-tion of heat. 16 Salt drawn 4 hours after do. l ?a Salt drawn 6 hours after do. _H L 2 Hence it appears, that there was a gradually increasing purity in the salt from sulphate of lime, as the process of evaporation advanced; the greatest part of this earthy compound being deposited at an early stage of the process. Different specimens of the same kind of salt may, therefore differ in chemical purity as much from each other, as from other varieties. But when the impurities, contained in a solu,tion of muriate of soda, are of a different species, from those of Cheshire brine, and consist chiefly of the earthy muriates, the order will be reversed, and the purest salt,as I have already suggested, will be that which is first deposited; the contamination wVith the muriate of lime or of magnesia, continuing to increase, as the process advances to a conclusion. ~4E * I cannot on any other principle explain, the considerable differences, as to thl lo-el Dr. HENRY's Analysis of several Varieties At an early period of the enquiry, it appeared to me pro' bable that the differences between the several varieties of culinary salt might depend, in some degree, on their containing variable proportions of water of crystallization. It v1"as found, however, by experiment, that the proportion of water in any variety of common salt, after being dried at o 1 9 FAHRENHEIT, is not much greater or less than that which is contained in any other variety. Pure transparent rock-salt, calcin1ed for half an hour in a low red heat, ( o ? Or S of WEDGwOOD' Spyrometer) lost absolutely nothing of its weight. It is remarkable, also, that the pure native salt, if free from adventitious moisture,, may be suddenly and strongly heated with scarcely any of that sound called decrepitation,* which is produced by the similar treatment of all the varieties of artificial salt. Even these varieties, however, exposed during equal times to a low red heat, do not lose more than from half a grain to three grains in one hundred. This comparison cannot be extended to the salt prepared at a boiling temperature from sea water; because the muriate of magnesia, which proportion of muriate of magnesia, that were discovered in the several varieties of Scotch salt, sent to me by Dr. THOMSON. For this reason, in stating the analysis of Scotch salt, I have given, in the table, that result which was most frequently obtained; and have withheld the names of the manufacturers, because the differences were probably in a great measure accidental, and not the result of greater or less skill in the preparation. One specimen of Lymington salt, which I examined, contained fully as much muriate of magnesia as any of the Scotch samples. The cat salt of that place, however, contrary to my expectation, proved to possess a very extraordinary degree of purity ; a fact of which I satisfied myself by repeated experiments. Decrepitation is occasioned by the sudden conversion into vapour of th-e water contained in salts, when its quantity is insufficient to effect the watery fusion. It is a property peculiar to salts which hold only a very small proportion of water in comnILination, as Unriate of soda, nitrate of lead, and sulphate of potash. of British and Forezgn Salt. 103 these varieties contain, is decomposed at a red heat, and deprived of its acid. The following table shews the quantity of water contained in several kinds of salt, inferred from the loss which they sustain by ignition during equal times, after being first dried at 2120. loo parts of large grained fishery salt contain of water 3 100 foreign bay salt (St. Martin's) _ 100 do. (Oleron) 2 100 do. Cheshire common salt Ij 100 do. stoved salt The loudness and violence of the decrepitation was, as nearly as could be judged, in the same order, and was most remarkable in the large grained varieties. To determine the proportions of real muriate of soda in those varieties of artificial salt which are nearly free from earthy muriates, I employed also the process of decomposition by nitrate of silver. The following are the quantities of fused luna cornea, obtained from 1oo grains of each of three varieties dried, previously to solution, at the temperature of 212o FAHRENHEIT. 100 gr. pure transparent rock salt gave of luna cornea 242 100 stoved salt, remarkably pure 39 100 fishery salt. do 237* * From l0o grains of pure artificial muriate of soda, previously heated to redness, Dr. MARCET has since informed me, that he obtained z24x6 grains of fused luna cornea. The weights of the precipitates thrown down in my experiments by nitrate of silver, are not, I am aware, exactly those which might have been expected from the table of the comparative proportions of water given in the text. Each experiment, however, was twice repeated with every precaution I could adopt, and with the same results. That different kinds of salt give different proportions of luna cornea, is 104i Dr. HENRY'S Analysis of several Varieties The proportion of ingredients in the several kinds of muTiate of soda (setting apart the impurities) appears, therefore, to be nearly the same in all. And as the very minute quantity of water, discovered by analysis, is not constant in the several varieies, it may be inferred to be rather an acc~identi than a necessary ingredient; for in the latter case, an invari-able proportion nmigiht be expected, conformably to the important Jaw, establishing an uniformity in the proportions of Cnemical cornpounds, which has been explained lby Mr. DALTON, and confirmed by Drs. THOMSON and WoLLASTOiNWhat then, it may be enquired, is the cause of those differences which are acknowledged, on all hands, to exist -anniong-the several species of muriate of soda, so far as respects their fitness for economical purposes. If I were to hazard an. opinion, on a subject about which there must still be some uincertainty, it would be that the differences of chemical coinposition, discovered by the preceding train of experiments, in the several varieties of culinary salt, are scarcely sufficient -to account for those prop erti-es which are imputed to them on the ground of experience. The stoved and fishery salt, for example, though differing in a very trivial degree as to the kind or proportion of their ingredients, are adapted to widely different uses. Thus the large grained salt is peculiarly fitted for the packing of fish and other provisions a purpose to which the small grained salts are much less suitable. Their different pow ers, then, of preserving food must depend on some mechanical property and the only obvious one is the proved also by comparing the experiment of Dr. -MARCIT, with the results of Dr. BLACK and KL APRorH, both of whom found the fused muriate of silver, from ico arts of common salt, to weigh 235 grains, OF B1i'bsh and Florez S&eig Salt. magnitude of the crystals, and their degree of compactness and hardness. Quickness of solution, it is well knowvn, is pretty nearly proportional, all other circumstances being equal to the quantity of surface exposed. And since the sure faces of cubes are as the squares of their sides, it should follow that a salt whose crystals are of a given inac nitRude will disc solve sour times mor e slowly than one whose cubes have only half the size. That kind of salt, tben, which possesses most eminently the combined pro)erties of harduess, compactness, and perfec-` tionl of crystal s will be best adapted to the purpose of packing fish and other provisions, because it will remain permanently, between the different layers, or will be very gradually disc solved by the fluids that exude from the provisions; thus furnishing a slow, but constant supply of saturated brine. On the other hand, for the purpose of preparing the pickle, or of strikino the meat, Which is done by immersion in a saturated solution of salt, the smaller grained varieties answer equally well; or, on account of their greater solubility, even better. With the hardness or strong aggregation of the several varieties of salt, it seemed to me not improbable that their specific gravity might, in some degree, be connected. The exact determination of this property in saline substances is, however, a problern of considerable difficulty, as will sufficiently appear fromn the various results which have been given, with respect to the same salts, by dif'ierent experimentalists. Thus MUSCIJENBRIOEK makes the specific gravity of artificial muriate of soda to vary fr an 1i i S to 2148, the mean of which is 2og Sir ISAACNEWTON states it at 2143, and HASSENFRATz at 220o0* Annales deChimie, Vol. XXVIII. p. AdoMDCCCX. P io6 Dr. HENRY'S Analysis of several Varieties All that was necessary for rny purpose, was an approximation to the truth; and the introdhction of a small error could be of no importance, provided it were the same in every case, since the comparison would still hold good. The specific gravity of rock salt, there can be little difficulty in-deterrnining with precision. A piece of this salt,* of such perfect transparency, that I had reserved it as a cabinet specimen, weighed in the air 513 grains, and lost, when weighed in alcohol, 194 grains. The alcohol, at the te mperature of 36' FAHRENHEIT, had the specific gravity of 82o, and hence that of the salt may be estimated at 2170. Another specimen considerably less pure, and more approaching to a fibrous fracture, had the specific gravity of 212,5 only. For ascertaining the specific weighlts of artificial varieties of salts, I used a very simple contrivance. It consisted of a glass globe about 3 diameter, having a stein or neck lo inches long. Sixteen cubic inches of water (each 252 1grains at 6o FAHRE NHEIT,) filled the whole of the globe, and about half an inch of ti e loxwer part of the neck ; and from thee line where the water stood in the instrument, it was accurately graduated upwards into hundredth parts of a cubical inch. Into this vessel I poured exactly sixteen cubic inches of a perfectly saturated solution of common salt; and then added 400 grains of the salt under examination, washing down the particles that adlered to the neck by a portion of the liquid, which had been previously taken out of the globe for the purpose. As much as possible of the air which adhered to the salt, was dislodged by agitation; and the increase of bulk was then observed. Carewas taken that the salts were all of equal temperature.Foliated rock salt OfJAMEESONSC his Mineralogy, VOL U1. P. c0. of Brilisi ;nd Norehgr / S0 h -and dryness, and that no change of temperature happened during the experiment. j4,oo grains of the less pure kind of rock Hundredtl Henc. its of a cub. in. specific s salt, broken dowvn into small fragments, grav. was* filled the space of -75 2112 40 0grains of stoved salt 575 112 ! 400 do. (another sample) 76 2084 L4oo do. common salt -76 208 U4oo large grained fishery salt 83 1969 400 do. (another sample) 8,3 1909 4ood St. Ube's 82 1932 If the above mode of determination at all approach to correctness, it would appear that the specific gravity of rock salt is diminished, by being broken into small fragments, from Li 5 to ?112, probably in consequence of the quantity of air which the fragments envelope, and which cannot be entirely separated by agitation. From the numbers given in the last column, it is evident that the smaller grained salts are sped cificailly heavier than those which are composed of larger and more perfect crystals. A difference of only one or two hundredth parts of a cubic inch, is perhaps entitled, in a process of this kind, to little reliance; and I do not therefore regard it as indicating any material difference in the specific gravity of the first four, or last three salts submitted to experiment. But when the difference amounts to eight hundredths, as between the small and large grained salt, it may safely be imputed to an inferior specific gravity in that species, which occupies so much greater a proportional bulk.** Distilled water at iooo being taken as the standard, M M. HASSENFRATZ seems to have suspected that a difference in the spedc'p a 108 Dr. HENRY 'S nalysis of several Varieties The last series of experiments proves decisively, that in an important quaity, (viz. that of specific gravity,) wkh ic s probably con nected with the mecianical property of hardness and compactness ou' crystals, little or no difference is discoverable between the large graindL salt of Britishi, and that of foreign mnanufacture. If no superiority , then, be claimed for British salt as appl1cable to economical purposes, on ace count of the greater degree of chemical purity which unquestionably belongs to it, it may safely, I believe, be asserted that the larger grained varieties are, as to their inechanical properties, fully equal to the foreign bay salt. And the period, it may be hoped, is riot far distant, when a prejudice (for such, from the result of this investigation, it appears to be,) will be done away, which has long proved injurious to the interests and prosperity of an important branch of British manufacture. SECTION 1II. ACCOUNT OF THE METHOD)S OF ANALYZING THE SEVERAL VARIETIES OF MURIATE OF SODA. The method of analysis which I adopted, in examining the S2veral varieties of muriate of soda, was as follows. When the salt was in a state of solution, a measured quantity w as eva orated to dr'yness in a sand heat, whic'i was carefluily regulated to avoid the decomposition of the muriate of mnage nesia, if any of that salt were present in the solution.*0gravily or the same salt may be occasion d by a variation in its state of crystallization. De la Pesantcur specifique des Sels, Ann. de Chem. XXVIIJ. p. 17. Muriate of magnesia, according to Dr. MAR CET, begins to part with its acid at a Lnpeiature a few degrees above that of boiling water. This fact explains thre observation of MIr. KIRWAN, that too gTreat a heat, emploked in the desiccalion of mnuriate of magnesia, decreases considerably its. solubility in' alcshol(KI. RWANN o0. Mineral Waters, p. 275.) of Britisit and Fore'6 Salt. Each specimen of salt was reduced to a fiie powdvlr, and was dried, in the temperature of 1800 of FAHRENHEIT, during the space of two hours. Elhis was done in order thoat the different experiments might be made on precisely equal quantities of salt. I. To separate the earthy Mutiriales-. (A) On iooo grains of the dried and pulverized salt, (except in the case of the foreign salts, when only joo grains were used,) four ounce measures of alcohol were poured, of a specific gravity, varying fro n 81S to 820, and at nearly a boiling temperature. To insure the access of the fluid to every part of the salt, they were ground together for some time in a mortar, and then transferred into a glas? mattras, where they were digested for some hours, and frequently agitated. I Te alcohol was next separated by filtration, and the undissolved part was washed, as it lay on the filtre, with 4 ounce measures of fresh alcohol. (B.) The united washings were evaporated to dryness,* and to the. dry mass a small portion of fresh alcohol was added, to separate the earthy inuriates from a little omnrnon salt, which had been dissolved along with them. This so1ultion might, however, still contain a minute portion of muriate of soda. It was therefore again evaporated, redissolved in hot wvat r, and mixed with a solution of carbonate of soda. By boiling fc r some minutes, the whole of tUe eardIIs were pri itated, and after being vvell washed, were re-dissolved in inuriatic acid. This solution, being evaporated to dryness, gave the * In this and all similar cases, the heat was very cautiously regulated towards the. close of the process. 1to Dr. FIsNR-x A.nalysis of Several Varieties vewoit of the earthy inuriates, which had been extracted by alco! ol.* (B. a.) The dry mass thus obtained might consist either of mnuriate of magnesia, of m'uriate of itne, or of both. An aliqu ot part, therefore, was dissoIved, separately, for the purpose of assaying it by thle ustU1a tCsts. Sime-ntimes, as in the case of the earthy iur at es procured from sea salts, Mu riaLe of magnesia alone was inldicated, and any furthler process was rendered unnecessary. Muriate of lime was in no instance found iUncombined ; b1t in the 1a jority of cases (as in ithe earthy mnuriates obtained from Cheshire salt) was mixed with muriate of magnesia. (B. b.) To the solution of tw o earthy muriates was added fully saturated carbonate of ammonia, which has the property of throwing down lime in combination with carbonic acid, but has no effect on the muriate of -magnesia at ordinary temperatures. The solution of the latter salt, along with that of the excess of carbonate of ammonia, was therefore separated by filtration; and to the filtred liquor a solution of piospiate of soda was added, according to the formula of Dr. WOLLASTON f By the analysis of artificial mixtures of pure muriate of socda with the earthy mutriates in klnown aulantities, I afterwards found that the full ania uIunt of the earthy muriates was not asceetained in this way of proceeding. The deficiency of the latter salts was about one sixth; but as the error must necessarily have been the same in all, it does not affect the comparison of different varieties of salt, as to their propor. tion of this ingredient. If the numbers in the 5th column of the table (indicating the total earthy muriates) be increased in the proportion of six to five, we shall then ob'a ln the true quantities in each variety of salt. t See Dr. MARc ED's analysis of the Brighton Chalybeate, published in the last editIol of SAUNDERS on Mineral Waters, of British and Foreign Salt. X (1B. c.) By direct experiments I had learned that ioo grains of rnuricte of inagnesia,, when thus decomposed by carbonate of amm onia, conjoined with phosphate of soda, give 151 g rains of an insoluble ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate dried at about 900 of FAHRENMEiT. Hence it was easy, from the weight of the precipitate, to calculate how much of the former salt was contained in the mixture of mu Iriate of lime and muriate of mnagnesia. Thus, if 2o grains of a mixture of the two muriates yielded 1 .1 of amrmoniaco-magnesian phosphate, it is obvious that the mixture imthave consisted of equal weights of muriate of lime and nuriate of magnesia. (1B. d.) Tie estirinauin of the proportion of muriate of lime,, in a mixture of this saIt with muriate of nagnesia, was sometimes perfortneed in a different way.To a cold solution of a known weight of the two salts, super-oxalate of potash was adIded; and the precipitate was collected, washed, and dried at about 1600 FAHRENHEIT. Of this precipitate I had previously found that i 6 grains are formed by the decomposition of aoo grains of dry muriate of lime. From the quantity of oxalate of lime it was easy, therefore, to infer that of the muriate, from whose decomposition it resulted; and this subtracte-d from the weight of the two salts, gave the weight of the muriate of magnesia. I. To separate and esti ate the earthy Sulphales. -(C.) The portion of salt which had resisted the action of alcohol, was dissolved by long boiling in sixteen ounce mea. sures of distilled water, and the solution was filtered. On the filtre a small quantity of undissolved matter generally remained, which was washed with hot water, till it Ceased to 1 I'S Dr. HENRY'S Analy'sis of several Varieties havre any action. The weight of the insoluble portion was then -ascertained. (C. a.) By this operation were dissolved, not only the muriate of soda, but all the other salts, iisoluble in alcohol , which might be mingled with it. To the solution carbonate of soda was added; and the liquid, vhich in most cases gave, on this addition, an abundant )recipitate, was boiled briskly for several minutes, in order lthat none of the earthy carbonates which 'were separated, might re!main dissolved by an excess of carbonic acid. (C. b.) The precipitated earths were allowed to subside, and were well edulcorated with boiling water, the vashing being added to the liquor first decanted from the precipitate. To these united liquids, (after the addition of more muriatic acid than was required for saturation) muriate of barytes was added, till it ceased to occasion any further precipitate. The sulphate of barytes was then washed sufficiently; dried; ig. nited ; and its amount ascertained. To the earthy carbonates, an excess of sulphuric acid vas added in a platina dish, and the inixture was triturated till all effervescence ceased. It was thenr evaporated to dryness, calcined in a low red heat, and the weight of the earthy sulphates was ascertained. (D. a.) The dry sulphates were washed with a small quantity of lukewarm water. In several instances, the loss of We 9igrt, thus sustained, was extremely trifling, nothing being disolved but a very minute portion of sulphate of li e, of which earthy salt, solely, the residue was presumed to be composed. (D. b.) But in other -cases, a, considerable loss of we-ight Bf Thil7s aind.illris LSalt ensued; and in these, to the watery solution was added a mixture of equal parts of saturated solutions of carbona-te of ammonia, and phosphate of soda. A precipitate mnore or less copious was produced, whic i was collected, dried at '0 FAINRENHEIT, and weighed. (D. c.) By direct experiments I had detrtermined, tlat 9o grains of this precipitate result from the decomposition of too grains of sulphate of magnesia, of such a degree of dryness, as to lose 44 grains out of too, by exposure to a low red heat. Hence 1oo grains of ammoniaco6magnesian phosphate indicate 1 g 1 rains of crystallized, on 62.2 of desiccated, sulphate of magnesia.* From the weight of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, it is easy, therefore, to infer the proportion of sulphate of magnesia in any mixture of the two earthy sulphates. -(D. d.) It was possible, however, that in addition to the slulphates of line and of magnesia, the quantity of which had been determined bythe foregoing process, the specimen of salt under examination might contain also an alkaline sulphate. To decide this point, it was necessary to compare the amount of the acid, deducible from the weight of the sulphate of barytes (C. b.), with that which ought to exist in the sulphate of lime, and sulphate of magnesia actually found by experiment. But to make this comparison, some collateral experiments -were previously necessary. (D. e.) By these experiments, I found that sulphate of lime prepared by double decomposition, then colined in a low X The assumption that crystallized sulphate of magnesia contains only 44 per Cell?. -of water, though it was correctly true with the specimen on which I operated, is below -the average, which, I find from several experiments, is about one half the weight of the salt. Mr. KIRWAN states the water of crystallization to be 53.6 in ioo grainm but this, I believe, a little exceeds the truth. IDOCCOX 0 114 Dr. HENRY'S Anadysis of several Varieties red heat, and afterwards dissolved in a large quarntity of boiling distilled water, yields, when precipitated by a barytic salt, in the proportion of 175.9 grains of sulphate of barvtes from ioo of the calcareous sulphate. The same quantity of ignited sulphate of lime (-1i8 brains dried at i6o FAHRENHEIT,) precipitated by sup r-oxalate of potash, gives 102.5 of oxalate of lime; or, precipitated by sLb-carbonate of potash at a boilin heat, 7'.S-grains of carbonate of lime.t One hundred grains of crystallized sulphate of magnesia (= ,56 desiccated) aifbrd when precipitated by muriate of barytes, Gisi or 112 of the barytic sulphate. (E.) By a comparison of the above proportions with those obtained in the analysis of any specimen of common salt, we may learn whether it con-tain other sulphates beside those with earthy bases. For example, if the precipitate (D.) consist of carbonate of lime ouly, and b rar to the sulphate of barytes (C. b.) the proportion of 74 to 175, or very nearly so, we may infer, that no other suIphate is present, but that of lime. 7I1he same conclusion will follow, if, after having decomposed one half of the vatery solution (C.) by muriate of barytes, and another half by oxalate of potash, we find that the sulphate of barytes bears to the oxalate of lime, the proportion of 175.9 to 102.5. * This result corresponds, within a fraction of a grain, with one obtained in a somewhat different way by Dr. M A R C, and very nearly with an experiment of my friend Mr. J A M s THoMsoN, vho found tie barytic sulphate, precipitated from ioo grains of sulphate of lime by nitrate of bar'ytes, to weigh 173 grains. t On reversing this experiment, I found that ioo grains of carbonate of lime, saturated with sulphuric acid, and calcined in a low red heat, afford 135 of sulphate of lime. A similar experiment of Mr. THaso SON gave 134.6 grains. Dr. MAR CET, also, informs me that from 93.55 grains of pure marble, hle obtained 125.95 grains of sulphate of lime, proportions which exactly co-incide with those of Mr. THomso n Oj IK/i /ZI anud 1ireg I Iet. 1i Now these proportions were as nearly as could be expected, obtained in the analysis of Northwich salt; trom xheIce we may conclude, that the only sulphate wilih it con:Itaiu1, is gypsum, or the sulphate of lime. It must be rememl)ered, lowever, that the calcarevous sult phate, contained in any variety of common salt, cannot be in a state of complete desiccation but would los.e 2r parts out of ico, by exposure to a red hleats* It becomes necessary, therefore, either to increase, in the proportion of 5 to 4, our estie mate of the sulphate of lime obtained by the foregoing rule, or, more simply, to assume that ioo grains of sulphate of barytes, indicate 73 grains of sulphate of lime, dried at i6o' FAHRENHEIT,= 57 ignited. (F.) When sulphate of lime and sulphate of magnesia, were both ascertained, and other sulphates also might possibly be present, as in the varieties of salt from sea water, the calculation became a little more complicated. In this case, after determining the quantity of both sulphates, (by the processes D. &c.) I estimated how much sulphate of barytes they ought respectively to afford ; and then compared the estimated quantity, with that which was actually obtained. The earthy carbonates, for example, precipitated from iooo grains of Lvmington salt, which had previously been digested with alcohol, were converted into 31 grains of calcined sulphates, consisting of 19 grains of dry sulphate of magnesia, and 12 grains of dry sulphate of lime. Nowv from the magnesian sulphate 38 grains of sulphate of barytes should result, and * This 1Lfind to be the loss sustained by Ioo grains of artificial selenite, dried at i6o0, and then igiiited. The same quantity of crystallized native selenite, I learn from Dr. M AR C E T, loses 20.7 grains, by being calcined in a strong red heat. Q2 i 16 Dr. HENRY'S Analysis of several Varieties from the sulphate of likime, 2.1 grains, the stum of which is S But the quantity actually obtained was 59.3. There is only, therefore, an excess of o.8 grain of the actual above the estimated quantity, a difference much too trivial to be admitted as an indication of any sulphate with an alkaline base; and arising, probably, from unavoidable errors in the experiment. (F. a.) If in any mixture of salts, free from the earthy muriates, we are certain that no other sulphates exist beside those of lime and magnesia, their estimation becomes extremely simple. Decompose two equal quantities of the salt in question, the one by muriate of barytes, the other by oxay late of potash. Fromthe weight of the latter precipitate, we may calculate the quantity of sulphate of lhim--e. Suppose, for example, the oxalate of lime (as wvas actUally the case wvith the precipitate from iooo grains of Lymington salt,) to weig i io grains; these denote 15 of sulphate of lime, dried at 16o" FAI-1RENFJEIT, Iwhich quantity, if decomposed, would give 201 of sulphate of barytes. The latter number (20eo), subtracted from the weight of sulplhate of barytes actually obtained (say 6o), gives 3grains for the sulphate of barytes, resulting from the decom position of sulpjhate of magnesia. The quantity of the latter salt, it will be found, therefore, by applying the rule already given (D. e.), must be g5 grains. (F. b. ) Thei same object may be accomplished by cheomposing two equal quantities, the one by oxalate of potash, the other by the compound solution (D. c.). From the weights of the precipitates, it is easy to calculate from how much of the calcareou s and magnesian sulphates they have resulted. (G.) When the salt left by alcohol was known to contain muriate of soda, and sulphate of magnesia, but no stlphate of of British nwd Foreign Sall, 11 7 lJime, the presence of alkaline sulphates was investigated in the followving manner. The salt wvas dissolved in vater, and the solution was divided into tw vo equal portions. To tle one rnurate of barytes was added, and to the other, the compound precipitant of carbonate of ammonia, and phosphate of soda. If the sulphate of barytes, thus produced, bore to the ammos niazco.agnesiLn phosphate, the proportion of ii 2 to 90, it was concluided that no other sulphatel had been decomposed, but that Withl blace of i-iagnesia. (IHI.) At one tinC; xpected to have ascertained the quantity of sulphate of soda, 'n an artificial mixture of that salt with sulphate of magnesia and muriate of soda, by the following formula. To a solution of the three salts, heated to a boiling temperature, I added sub-carbonate of ammonia, whidh decomposes the sulphate of magnesia only. I had then a solution containing muriate and sulphate &f soda, with sulphate of ammonia, and some carbonate of awnimonia. This solution was evaporated to dryness, and the mIass wals sufficiently heated to expel the ammoniacal salts. I found, however, that at this temperature, the sulphate of ammonia aicted ipon the muriate of soda, and produced an additional, and not inconsiderable quantity of sulphate of soda. Having determined, by the foregoing processei, tqe quan-. tity and kind of the earthy muriates, the amount o& tie minsot .luble iratter, and the proportion of suiphates, the weights of all these diffierent impurities were added together, and the suim being deducted from, the Weight of the salt subrnitu.A to eIX periment, the remainder was assumed as the amounteof the pure muriate of soda in the specimen under examinationl.* I have deemed it unnecessary to state, in the table, the quaintities of acid and 1i 8 Dr. H1FNRY'S Analys's of severa arnietws Though I purposely refrain from giving the details of the several analyses, which were made according to the foregoing plan, fromn the conviction that they would be both tedious and unnecessary, yet there are a few circumstances, which it may be proper to mention more fully, than can be done in the form of a table. i. The brine which I examined was from Northwich, and was sent to me in the state in which it was taken from the spring-* At the temperature of 560 FAHRENHEIT, it had the specific gravity of 1205. It was perfectly limpid, but lost a little of its transparency vhen raised to a boiling heat, in consequence of the deposition of a very minute quantity of carbonate of lime, and oxide of iron. It was immediately precipitated by muriate of barytes, oxalate of ammonia, and alkaline solutions, both mild and caustic. Eight ounce measures evaporated to dryness in a sand heat, gave 1230 grains of salt, -vhich, for the sake of distinction, I terrm entire salt. It proved, on analysis, to contain in one thousand partstbase 'in the several varieties of muriate of da. They may readily be estimated fros the proportion, deduced by Dr. MAtCET, of 46 acid, and 54. soda, in ooof the pure mnria, In this determination he assumes, that ioo paris l luna cornea, after being melted and heated to redness, consist of 19DQS parts d acid, to 8og9 oxide of silver. This statement agrees very nearly with the rent one of GAY LUssAC, wb makes ioo arts of silver to combine with 7.60 oxygene, and this oxide to neutralize z5.7 parts of real muriatic acid. * I have lately been informed that this brine had been pumped out of a rack-salt mine, into which, from the impossibility of obtaining the salt in a solid form, it was alloed to flow. Hence it was fully saturated with muriate of soda. t The specific gravity and proportion of earthy sulphates in Cheshire brine appears to differ considerably in the brine of different sprii gs. See HOLLANDIS Cheshire Repnrt, p. 45, &C. of British and Forezgn Salt. 119 Carbonate of lime and oxide of iron _ 2 Muriate of lime, and muriate of magnesia, inl nearly equal proportions _ 5 Sulphate of lime 19 Muriatn of soda 974 1000 2. The mother liquor, or brine that remains after separating all the common salt, which it is thought worth while to ex.t tract, had the specific gravity of 1 208. The dry salt contained Muriate of magnesia 85 lime -32 Sulphate of lime 6 Muriate of soda 927 1000 a. The clearings of the brine, which are raked out of the pan when the salt first begins to granulate, contained in tooo parts, Muriate of soda 800o Carbonate of lime 41 Sulphate of lime -1.9 :1000 4. Of the substance called by the workmen pan-scale, two specimens were analysed, the one containing a large proportion of muriate of soda, the other very little. The first variety consisted of Muriate of soda 9o50 Carbonate of lime 10 Sulphate of lime 40 1000 -t 210 Lr. HENRY"S Analysis of several Varieties The second variety was comnposed of Muriate of soda loo Carbonate of lime 110 Sulphate of lime 790 1000. Circuimstances, however, are constantly occurrinb to vary the proportion of ingredients, both in the clearings and in the pan-scale. If, for example, the brine be short of the Po0int of saturation'i witb common salt, it acts, when adnitted into the pan, upon the muriate of soda which the pan-scale contains, and we obtain the second variety. But if the brine be fully charged with salt, it effects no solution of the muriate of soda, carried down along with the gypsum; and then the first species of pan-scale results. j. The salt oil, or mother liquor from sea water, a specimen of which I received from DIr. THOMSON, had the specific gravity of 1277. It was abundantly precipitated by muriate of barytes: by pure ammonia, but not by the carbonate; and was not changed by oxalate of potash, either immediately or after an interval of -some hours. One thoUsand parts of the dry salt consisted of Muriate of magnesia 874 Sulphate of magnesia 70 Muriate of soda 56 1000. 6. The salt brine, or liquor which drains from the Scotch salt, had the specific gravity of-only 1 i88. It was affected by the same tests as the salt oil, but less remarkably. The dry residue -contained of British and Fore' n Salt. 2 Muriate of magnesia 205 Sulphate of magnesia 3 Muriate of soda 66o 1000, 7. The mother liquor, or bi ter; pan Lynmington, presented, o0l analysis, an unaccountable variation from the similar fluid sent from Scotland, and gave a much larger proportion of sulphate of magnesia. A considerable quantity of this salt had, moreover, crystallized in the bottle which contained the liquid. Its specific gravity was 128o. One thousand parts of the dry salt contained of Muriate of magnesia 640 Sulphate of magnesia Ag 6o Muriate of soda 100 100o0. S. The pan-scale from Lymington contained Muriate of magnesia 2,9 Desiccated sulphate of magnesia 18 Carbonates of lime and magnesia* 127 Sulphate of lime _ 216 Muriate of soda 6io 1 000. From the very near approximation of the proportions between the sulphate of barytes and ammoniaco-magnlesian phosphate, obtained in the analysis of all these products of sea water, to those which result from the decomposition of The proportion of these carbonates I was prevented from determining by an accident. MDcccX. R 122 Dr. HENRY'S .Sta lsis of several Varieties, &Cd. two equal quantities of sulp.hate of magnesia, it may be inferred th~at they contain no sulphate of sodan For example, to decide whether the Scotch salt contains an alkaline sulphate, or not, I dissolved 15oo grains in a pAInt of boilintg ,;water, and evaporated till fourteen drachm measures only remained, the common salt being removed as soon as it woas formed. The residuary liquid was divided into two equal portions, one of which gave 18grains of sulphate of barytes, and the other, 14 grains of ammoninco-magnesian phosphate. The proportion between these numbers is so nearly that which has been already assigned, (viz. 112 to 9o,) that we may safely infer the total absence of sulphate of soda. This salt, indeed, is considered as incompatible with muriate of magnesia; but after digesting, for two or three days, too grains of the former, with 20 of the latter, evaporating to dryness, and vashing the residuum with repeated affiusions of alcohol, I found that two grains of the muriate of magnesia had escaped decomposition.* I employed more attention in investigating the presence of sulphate of soda in the products of sea water ; because this salt is stated to be one of its ingredients by the Bishop of LLANDAFF, (Chemistry vol. Hi. p. 62,) and by other chemicalv writersa.Manchester, June 19, 1809. 