A Description of an odd kind of Mushrom, yeilding a Milky Juice, much hotter upon the tongue than Pepper, &c. Observed by Mr. Lister, and by him communicated to the Publisher, Novemb. 15. 1672. THe 18.of August last I passed through Marton woods, under Pinno-moor in Craven: In these Woods I then found an infinite number of Mushroms, some wither'd, and others new-sprung and flourishing. They were of a large size, something bigger than the Ordinary red-gilled eatable Mushrom or Champignon, and very much of their shape, that is, with a perfectly round Cap,or Stool (as we vulgarly call it,) thick in flesh and with open Gills underneath; having a thick, fleshy, not-hollow, and round Foot-stalk, of about 6 fingers breadth high above ground, and ordinarily as thick as my thumb. If you cut any part of this Mushrom, it will bleed exceeding freely a Milk-white Juice, concerning which note; 1. That this Milky Juice tasts much hotter upon the tongue than Pepper. 2. That it is not clammy to the touch. 3. That the Air does not much discolour it,or the blade of a knife; as is usual with most Vegetable Juices.4. That it became in the glass. viol, I drew it into, suddenly concret and stiff, and did in some daies dry into a firm Cake. 5. That it then also, when well dried, retain'd its fierce biting tast and white colour. Further, I observ'd these Mushroms, full of Juice, not to be endured upon out tongues,to abound with Fly-maggots. Also (5117) Also,the youngest and tendrest of them, that is, such as are most Juicy, to have been very much eaten by the Grey meadow naked Snail, lodging themselves within the sides of the plant. Concerning this kind of biting Mushroom, I find in a certain late discourse of the State of Russia these words; Groozshidys Fungorum maximi, pa'mam lati, instar Omasi bibuli sunt, crassi & candidi; dum crudi sunt, succo (lacteo puta) abundant. Eos sicut Tuhymallum muria corrigunt Rutheni; aliter sauces & guttur inflammabunt. Ipse semel nimis inconsiderate affatos comedere tentabam, non sine suffocationis periculo. The reference to the Cuts or Figures is here confused, and the description too concise, to say that Ours agrees in any thing with Theirs, save the great acrimony of the Juice they both yield. I may sometime acquaint you with the Medicinal Uses, I have caused to be made of this White Kesin: In the mean time I shall only mind you of the great affinity it hath with Euphorbium. Since this Letter the Author thereof was pleased to give us this further Account in an other of Decemb. 17. viz. Mr Wray return'd me this Answer to my Letter about the biting Mushrom; `` At my return to Midleton I found a Letter from you, `` containing the Description of a Mushrom by you disco`` ver'd in Marton.woods under Pinno moor. I doubt not `` but it is that described in Job. Bauhin l. 40. c. 6. under the `` title of Fungus piperatus albus, lacteo succo turgens. Only he `` saith; 1. That it doth in bigness exceed the Champignon; `` whereas you write, that there are few of them much big`` ger than that: But yet in saying so, you grant them to be `` bigger. 2.He saith, for their bigness they are not so thick `` as that; you describe yours to be thick in flesh. In all other `` points the Descriptions agree exactly. For the colour,that O o o o o 2 it (5118) `` it is white, Gills and all; for the place, that it grows in `` woods; and for the tast, that 'tis hotter than Pepper. Se`` veral particulars mention'd by you, are not observ'd or `` not mention'd by him.I cannot say, that I have as yet met `` with this Mushrom. 