Extracts of some Letters to the Publisher, giving an Account of some Books now Printing and lately Printed in Italy, France, Germany, Holland and Scotland. DR Marchini a Physician at Luca is now Writing the Natural History of the places within that small Commonwealth. Dr Baglivi at Rome, is Writing a Treatise de Successionibus Morborum. F. Plumier has finished his Book de Torno, or of turning, and is now about publishing a Catalogue of all the Plants found in France, the Title of it will be Botanicum Gallicum. He has ready 1400 designs of Plants belonging to this Work. Johannes Georgius Volckamerus, a Physician in Nurenberg, is busie in making Tables of the Affinity of Plants, which he promis'd in the Preface to his Flora Norimbergensis. In this Book he will follow a method directly contrary to that of Rivinus. At Leyden is now Printing Stephani Blancardi Lexicon Medicum. A ~ ~ a a a a 2 The (1042) The following Books are lately Printed. COrn. Beughem Apparatus ad Historiam literariam, con spectus quartus. Amst. 1701. in 12s. De Spina Lexicon Pharmaceutico Chymicum, Francof. ad Maenum 1700. in 80. Valentini, pandectae Medico-legales accedunt polychresta exotica ibidem. 1701. in 4to. Rammazini de Morbis Artificum diatriba Mutinae. 1700. in 80. Books lately Printed and Printing in Scotland. SIr Andrew Balfuro's Letters, giving an Account of his Travels are Printed here, but not as yet published. The History of the World, from the Creation to the Birth of Abraham, containing the space of 1948. years, in two Books. Ist,From the Creation to the Flood. 2d, From the Flood to the Birth of Abraham, wherein all Historical Controversies, either Civil or Eccleiastick, are handled and discussed, by James Preston, Professor Literaturae Humanae,in the University of St Andrews, is lately Published. Books in the Press. GEorgii Sibbaldi M. D. regulae bene & Salubriter vivendi partim metro expressae quibus accessere Rober~ bodii de trocho regia de filii sui primogeniti monita. The Charitable Physician,being a Collection of curious Receipts, published by Scougal of Whithill, one of our Ordinary Lords of the Session. Sir Rob. Sibbald is about to Print an Appendix to his History of Scotland. Mr Adair is lately returned from Surveying the Shires of ~ and Niddesdale, where he has observed several (1043) ral Natural curiosities, as curious Shells, Ores, Mettals, Minerals; and particularly, he found a very fine sort of Iron Ore on the Coast of Northumberland: he is now busie in drawing the Maps of those Shires, and intends shortly to publish them,with the Natural History of those places. 