The Description of a Well, and Earth in Lanchashire, taking Fire by a Candle approached to it. This was imparted by that Ingenious and Worthy Gentleman, Tho. mas Shirley Esq; an Eye-witness of the thing, now to be related in his own words; viz. About the later end of February 1659. returning from a Journey to my house in Wigan, I was entertained with the relation of an odd Spring, scituated in one Mr. Hamkley's Ground (if I mistake (483) stake not) about a mile from the Town, in that Road which leads to Warrington and Chester. The people of this Town did confidently affirm, that the Water of this Spring did burn like Oyle; into which Error they suffered themselves to fall for want of a due examination of the following particulars. For when we came to the said Spring(being five or six in company together)and applyed a lighted Candle to the surface of the Water; 'tis true, there was suddenly a large flame produced, which burnt vigorously; at the sight of which they all began to laugh at me for denying, what they had positively asserted: But I, who did not think my self confuted by a laughter grounded upon inadvertency,began to examine what I saw; and observing, that this Spring had its eruption at the foot of a Tree,growing on the top of a neighbouring Bank, the Water of which Spring fill'd a Ditch that was there, and covered the burning place lately mention'd; I then applyed the lighted Candle to divers parts of the Water, contained in the said Ditch, and found as I expected, that upon the touch of the Candle and the Water, the Flame was extinct. Again,having taken up a dishfull of Water at the flaming place, and held the lighted Candle to it, it went out. Yet I observed that the Water at the burning place did boyle, and heave like Water in a Pot upon the Fire, though my hand put into it perceived it not so much as warm. This boyling I conceived to procced from the Eruption of some bituminous or sulphureous Fumes; considering, this place was not above 30 or 40 yards distant from the mouth of a Coalpit there. And indeed Wigan,Ashton, and the whole Country, for many miles compass, is underlaid with Coal. Then applying my hand to the surface of the Burning place of the Water, I found a strong breath,as it were a Wind, to bear against my hand. Then I caused a Dam to be made, and thereby hindering the recourse of fresh water to the Burning place; I caused that,which was already there, to be drained away; and then applying the burning Candle to the surface of the dry Earth at the same point, where the Water burned before; the Fumes took fire,and burn'd very bright and vigorous. The Cone of the Flame ascended a foot and a half from the Superficies of the Earth. The Basis of it B b b 2 was (484) was of the Compass of a Mans hat about the brims. I then caused a Bucket-full of Water to be poured on the fire, by which it was presently quenched, as well as my companions laughter was stopped, who then began to think, the Water did not burn. I did not perceive the Flame to be discolour'd,like that of sulphureous Bodies, nor to have any manifest scent with it. The Fumes, when they broke out of the Earth, and prest against my hand, were not, to my best remembrance, at all hot. 