An Account Of several Engagements for Observing of Tydes. Since nothing is more important for discovering the Cause of that Grand Phaenomenon of Nature, the Flux and Reflux of the Sea, than a true and full History of the Tydes, the Virtuosi of England have of late (especially since the Publication of Dr. Wallis his Theory touching that Apparence) taken care, to direct and recommend in several parts of the World, and particularly in the most proper places of these Ilands, such Observations, as may contribute to the elucidating of that Subject. And as formerly they have sent their Inquiries of this Nature to the Isle of St. Helena, situated in the open Ocean beyond the AEquinoctial, and already received some account thereupon; so they have since dispatcht the like for the Bermudas, an Isle that hath no less conveniency of situation for that purpose. And they intend (as will more amply appear, God permitting, in a short time) to lodge with such Masters of Ships and Pilots, as shall sayl into remote parts, very particular directions of that kind, to be printed at the Royal Societies charges, and to be committed to the care of the Masters of Trinity House for disposing of them to that end. And, as for the Observations, to be made in these Kingdoms; tis hoped, that the Masters in the Art of Navigation at Bristol (Mr. Standridge and Mr. Iff) will undertake that business with affection and care: the former of these two having already (as we are informed from a good hand) made a Collection of the Tydes, for (379) for some years past, and found them differing from former Observations and Tables; the other promising future diligence in this matter; noting in the mean time, that some Tydes of last Autumn were so far differing from former Observations, that neither he, nor any others there, could make any thing of it. We must not omit here to mention the readiness, expressed by these worthy Gentlemen, Mr. Rob. Boyle, Sir Rob. Moray, and Mr. Henry Powle, for concurring in this Work; the first, having undertaken to recommend Observations of this nature, to be made, upon the Western Coast of Ireland *; the second, upon the West of Scotland; and the third, in the Isle of Lundy; to whom we must adde the inquisitive Mr. Sam. Colepresse, for Plymouth, and the Lands-end. Besides, we hope to engage the curious of France in the same undertaking, especially for procuring, besides what is known already concerning that place, a very particular and exact account of the Tydes upon the Coast of Britany, where (especially about St. Malo) they are found to rise to admiration, even to 60. 70. and sometime 80. feet, at the New and Full Moon. * The Observations particularly recommended for that Coast, are these; 1. At what hour it is Highwater on the day of the New and Full Moon, upon every Cape and Bay of the Western Coast of Ireland. 2. How long after the New and Full Moon the highest Spring-tides fall out. 3. What are the perpendicular heights of the Flood, both at the ordinary, and the Spring-tydes. 