(222) 3. An Account of a Book, viz. Wilhelmi ten Ryne M. D. &c. TransisalanoDaventriensis, 1. dissertatio de A RT H R I T I D E.2. Mantissa Schematica: 3. de A C U P U N C T URA. 4. Orationes tres. sc. De Chymiae & Botanicae antiquitate & dignitate. De Physiognomia. De Monstris. Londini in 8o. 1683. THis Author treating of the Gout, being unsatisfyed with the notions of other Physitians, and concluding that such ignorance of the causes of that distemper has made all attempts of cure unsuccesful hitherto: instead of any humor which former ages have lookt on as its cause, asserts Flatus or Wind included between the Periosteum and the bone to be the genuine producer of those intolerable Pains wherewith Gouty Persons are afflicted; and that all the method of cure ought to tend toward the dispelling those Flatus. This Wind he thinks is Dry, Cold, and Malignant,conveyed by the Arteries to the place affected; where forceably separateing that sensible Membrane the Perioste~m and distending it, must needs make a very sharp pain. Next (223) Next he Digresses to shew that Head-aches, Palpitations of the Heart, Tooth-ach, Pleurisy, Convulsions, Numness, Epilepsy, Collicks, Feavors, and other Distempers, do arise from the same Root; which are variously named from the places affected, and the various Motions and Determinations of this Wind. But particularly that the Gout proceeds thence, he proves, from the Authority of Hippocrates and others, from the Chineses burning Moxa on the joint whereby the flatus evaporates; from the moveableness of the pain from one part to another; and from an Instance of a Gouty Person. These Winds he thinks Cold, because they are to be conquered by the contrary quality (heat); and because a shivering preceeds a fit of the Gout;and what they call a hot Gout is only by accident produced by vehement pain. by the way he asserts that the shivering of Agues and Feavours acknowledge the same origin; and that as many accidents may happen from Wind in the lesser, as in the greater World. These Winds he asserts (out of Fienus) to be halituous spirits raised either by the weakness or sharpness of our native heat, out of our meat and drinks; or Pituita and Black Choler. Their differences chiefly proceed from various ferments produceing in us variety of humours; which acting on one another do in their effervescence create windsof various effects, and denominate diseases from the places the Scenes of their action. For more particulars and other external causes of their differences he refers to Fienus. That this wind is malignant, he urges for proof the veG g 2 hemency (224) ~emency of pain, the Authority of Hippocrates, Gulen, Paraeus, Platerus; and out of Guido de Cauliace observes that upon burning, a wind issues out together with a tenuious Ichor of a very ill sent. That tis under the Periosteum, and not in a more lax inclosure, he argues; from the sence of distension without much tumour, and from the obstinacy of the pain caused by the close Imprisonment of the wind, to be set free only by the opening force of Fire. That tis conveyed by the bloud to the place affected; he deduces; from the greater and more frequent pulse, from the swelling of the Bloud-vessels of the joynt before the fit; from Arteriotomy antiently used for the Gout; from the success of Moxa applyed to the temporal Arteries in the Tooth-ach a Disease analogous to the Gout; and lastly from the disorders of the Heart and Swooning occasioned by the preposterous use of repelling Medicines;which he cautions against, as such which send back the malignant Flatus to the Heart. The reason why it causes no pain in its progress through other parts to the joynt, is because tis temperd and blended with the blood and other humours, and finds not any such resistance from other parts, as from the Periosteum. Then in the close, enumerating the differences of Gouts, which he makes only accidental; he passes to the second part of his discourse, which treats of the Symptoms. Hindrance of Motion, Swelling of the Veins, a more Intense pulse, a pricking, distending, beating, deep,constant and sharp pain are inseparable Signs and companions of Part. 2. (225) of the Gout. Consequent to these are Watchings, Weakness and Swooning; sometimes inflammation, and an Erysipelas; Nodes, and a Calculous Concretion like Chalk often occasioned by the indiscreet applying of Cooling, Drying and repelling Medicines. Sometimes Swellings are caused by a Flux of humours whereby also the ligaments of the Joynts being moistened and relaxed; If those Chalky tophi chance to interpose, a dislocation ensues. In his Third part he treats of the cure of the Gout; and reflecting on the inefficacy and uncertainty of other Medicines hitherto orescribed, recommends burning, though a severe, yet as an adequate cure to so stubborne a Disease; after, having briefly considered the difference of Causticks and repeated the various effects of Wind in human bodies, he proceeds to shew, that the fire, either potential or actual, is the genuine dispeller of this Wind. and that from the practice of Albucasis and Mesue among the Arabians; from the Observations of Prosper Alpinus on the Egyptians; and from various instances of its success in several cases, especially in the Falling-Sickness, Convulsions, Apoplexies, ~nd other diseases of the Head and Nerves; which being disaffected by some cold pituitous humours, he makes the Fountains of all the morbifick Winds in the body. Part. 3. That the efficacious way of burning has been disused, he ascribes to the soft Education of these latter ages, whereby men are rendred averse to a method of cure too harsh & cruel; to sense grown tender by Luxury Ease and Pleasure: and therefore wishes a more kind way of Cautery could be invented, than bare fire; yet commends that before some potential (226) Potential Cauteries, whose activity often produces unexPected Symptomes, as not being so much at the command of the Applyer However the frequent use of Cauteries in Japan appeared sufficiently to our Author, from the numerous Scars he saw all over the bodies of very many persons among that People, upon no other account but burning with Moxa; which he asserts they use in all ages and Sexes, and in all seasons of the year with desired success. In the next place our Author recounts the occasional causes of those diseases which most infest Japan; chiefly these, namely the shaveing the top of their heads smooth, and going barefoot in all ages, both Sexes, and all times of the year; excess of Venery; feeding much on Fish, which afford a clammy cold and pituitous nourishment: and lastly being free from Wars, they live securely in great Sloth and Luxury. All Distempers of the Head, Nerves, Ligaments and Membranes are very frequent; Plague they have none: but Small-Pox so constantly Epidemical and fatal, that Parents count not those Children among the liveing who have not pass't that Disease. But there is no Distemper more common than Blindness and Gout: The former for want of the Art of Couching Cataracts they count Incurable; the latter in time they cure by Moxa. Burning with hot Irons they know not; Blood-letting they abhor as distructive to life. All their Chirurgery consists in the use of Moxa; and pricking with a long sharp Needle. They had rather dy than implore assistance from Christians: and Providence hath left their own People ignorant in much medicin: least a land most fruitful in Children should be overstockt with Inhabitants. But Nature is kind in affording great quantities of ~omongi, (227) gi, which our Author calls broad-leav'd Mugwort, growing without culcure every where; known to the most ignorant Japanese; and being prepared is called Moxa. Our Author passing by ~ other vertues, at present only shews its use in the Gout which (after a digression concerning Cauteries, whose efficacy is asserted by Hippocrates, Celsus, and others there quoted) he describes in this manner. The Plant dryed in the Shade, free'd from filth and the harder rougher Stalks, and rubb'd between the hands till it become like Cotton, is their Moxa. This cottonlike Substance they form into a little Cone about the bulk of a Pea; or else in a Paper, rowle it between their hands into a Cylinder, to be divided into little Pellets for their purpose. The Pulse of the place being felt, upon it they place the Moxa (the basis of the Cone next the Skin), then taking care to keep the body in a settled position, they light the Apex of the Pellet either with ordinary wood, or (for the Rich) with an Aromatick stick. The Pellet does not wholly consume into ashes; but leaves a little segment of its base on the part: a little Blister is hereby raised of a Cineritious colour without much pain, giveing vent to the humours and wind. They burn sometimes even to 50 pellets on a place without danger; and at last with Success. To separate the Escara, Garlick is applyed for 24 hours. The Rough side of a Plantain leaf keeps the Ulcer open; the smooth side heals it: Cole-Worts,Betes,Colts-foot, Ivy &c. are substituted for want of Plantain. Moxa is not to be applyed in ardent continual feavers, in the fit of an Ague, in languishing of the Spirits, in pregnant Women till after an 100 days. Many (228) Many of the Japaneses use Moxa twice or oftner in a year to prevent Sickness, as solemnly as Europeans Purge or bleed. In the most grievous Chronical diseases and even in persons emaciated by consumptions, as an arcanum they burn in four points near the Os sacrum, two on each side lying in a direct line crossing the Spine to right angles. Analogous to this practice, in a long digression he quotes out of Hippocrates many instances and precepts for burning in most Chronical cases. The whole art lyes in designing the points to be Burnt for each distemper; which Secret is in the hands of peculiar Chirurgeons, who have formed Rules to direct them; as also Images in their houses marked in all those places that are proper to be burnt. And to shew the necessity of a due observing of proper places, he asserts upon his own knowledge, burning on the linea alba a fingers length below the Navel infallibly causes Barrenness especially in men; wherefore that line is always avoided. Aside from it above the navel, burning (they say) restores lost appetite, as also if Moxa be applyed to the Shoulder blades. For a Gonnorhaea and weakness of the Spermatick, Vessels, the parts about the Loins and the Os sacrum are to be burnt; for the Collick, on the abdomen; and for the Tooth-ach, on the Chin at the commissure of the under-Jaw-bones. With these and such like instances; and a receipt of Hysterical lozenges made of this Artemisia or Mugwort, of constant use among the Women of Japan; our Author concludes his discourse. To Confirme his notion of Winds being the cause of most diseases, our Author subjoyns an History of a Febris Cardiaca (as he calls it) which afflicted himself almost to death. (229) Death, with most vehement palpitations of his heart, frequent Swoonings,intermittent pulse, difficult breathing, burning heat: which ending in a colliquateing sweat left him weak and languishing with hands and feet as cold & insensible as a carcass. The smell of Rose-water was his most reviveing Cordial he could find;breaking wind up or down eased him alwayes: but Clysters bringing away much wind was his chief and almost only relief. What came away by Stool affected him inwardly with so strange a sense of cold, as if Ice newly thawed had been ejected. Decoctions of fresh China Roots, by perspiration, vented this cold wind which he imagined, by coagulating his blood and hindring its circulation, to be the only cause of those Symptomes which he laboured under in every Fit. But notwithstanding this method and and a very regular Diet, his distemper seized him 6 times, with several fits at a time, in the space of three months. At length applying Moxa to three places on each side his Navel,and to two places about the Region of his loins; burning 12 times on each point,washing the wounds clean with salt-Water the next day, and keeping open the little Ulcers (which vented much purulent matter)for more than twenty daies, and afterward healing them with Emplastrum Stipticum Paracelsi; he perfectly freed himself from his troublesome and dangerous Distemper. Mantissa Schematica. Here the Author gives four Draughts of those Images the Japonian Physitians keep in their houses, markt in those places which they burn with Moxa and perforate with their Needle; annexing the Inscriptions belonging to those Images, which containing a H h brief (230) brief account of their Physick and Anatomy. Theyuse inwardly three Plants (much extolled for their vertues) above all others, 1~ Rockqualiph, bearing fruit like KidneyBeans,and a Root yellow, bitter and odoriferous. 20 Xinkiu a tuberous Root smelling like lovage,remarkable among them for the enticeing Fish by the sent~ and 3 Nixziu whose Root they make the basis of all decoctions,in which form they exhibit all inward medicines; neither do they give many more than these named. Their internal Medicines are calefactive and discussers of Wind; and if those faile they presently have recourse to Moxa or their Necille. Next you have an account of some eminent persons who have been inventors in medicine among them: whose precepts they so strictly adhere to, that if they fail in their practice they distrust their own judgment and ~, rather than deviate one tittle from the Rules of their fore-fathers. From these Antient Physitians they have descriptions of all the vessels of the body after their manner: whose Course Situation and pulse they study diligently, as being absolutely necessary to an happy practitioner; and tis all the Anatomy they mind or value. These Vessels they say are (in all) 14,whereof 12 are internal, and two external;containing two principles of life call'd by them Calidum Innatum, & humidum radicale; upon which, together with the several measures of those Vessels, their physical Theory of mans body depends. ` They argue three degrees of Humidum Radicale con` tained in three distinct vessels belonging to the Arms and ` terminateing in the breast, and also in other three vessels ` of the legs distributed among the Bowels: the first three ` feet,the latter 6 feet & a half long,on either side. There are ` likewise (they say) three degrees of Calidum innatum contained (231) `tained also in three vessels belonging to the Arms,and three ` others of the Legs;the first five feet long, the latter eight ` feet on either side, both terminating in some parts of the ` head: these in all make up the twelve Internal. As to ` the External, that of Native heat rises from the outward, that of Radical Moisture from the inward ankle: both ter` minate in the Eyes, and are each 7 ~ feet long on ` either side. They add two other external veines: both ` riseing from the perinaeum end under the nostrills, the ` one passing before, the other~behind; and are each four ` ~ feet long. ` Two other sorts of Vessels they assign, each 12 in ` number mutually connected the first called Kee Miak, with ` all the windings 162 feet long, the seat of the Soul: and ` are supposed by the Author to be Arteries containing the Native heat whose motion is upward;which getting the praedominium over the Radical moisture produces Diseases. The ` other sort called Rack Miak, destiture of the Soul, e` steemed Veins,365 feet long(that is with all their windings) ` containing the Radical moisture whose motion is down` ward; and if equal produces health. Thus much our ` Author thought fit to give us of the peculiar Anatomy of ` Japan, and so proceeds to lay down Aphorismes about the ` use of the Needle. De Acupunctura. The Needle is made long,slender,sharp, of Gold, or at least Silver, with a wreathed handle. It is to be conveyed either by the hand or a little Mallet into the part gently a singers breadth or more, as the case requires, and to be held there the space of 30 breathings (if the patient can bear it):otherwise repeated puncturesare rather used. The puncture must be when the party is fasting, H h 2 deeper (232) deeper in a great than less disease; in old then young men; in grown persons than in those that are lean and tender; in fleshy parts than in Nervous. The Needle is chiefly used in diseases of the head and lower belly; and is applyed to the head in head-aches, Lethargies, Convulsions, Epilepsie, Diseases of the ~ &c; to the Abdomen in Gollick, dyssentery, want of Appetite, Hysterical disorders, surfeits, paines of the belly and Joynts, obstructions of Liver and Spleen &c. The Womb its self may be perforated (the Japanese affirm) and the Faetus wounded, when its motions are enormous and threaten abortion. In these cases the Needle must be applyed to the part whence the distemper arises; to the stronger on the back, to the weaker on the Abdomen: where the pulse scarce is perceived, there the puncture must be made in the Armes a little beside the veines. The Chirurgeons keep by them Images wherein all the places in the body proper for the Needle are designed by markes. The Author himself was an eye witness of the use of this puncture on a Souldier, who being afflicted with violent disorders of Stomack and frequent Vomitings at Sea, suddenly reliev'd himself by pricking a Thumbs-breadth deep into four different places, about the Region of his Pilorus. Next our Author before his orations prefixes an Epistle containing an accurate History of a Pestilential Feaver happening in his Ship, very mortal, and wherewith himself was visited as well as most of the Ships Company; attended with very many dismal Symtoms, all so particularly describ'd with the method of cure and so briefly too: that the Reader ought to consult the original rather than expect an extract, which cannot be just unless it transcribe the whole. In his Discourse of Chymistry he asserts its antiquity as far back (233) back as Tubal Cain,whence he thinks the Vulcan of the Heathens by some small change of Letters took his name; that therefore Hexmes Trismegistus was not the inventer ofit, but learnt it of Abraham in Egypt, with whom he was cotemporary; and that Hippocrates was a great master of this art, and built most of his notions about diseases on this foundation. Hence he takes occasion to say many things in the ~ of this art and of Botany; and so concludes with Examples of Soloman and many other great persons in all ages. who by thinking these studies worth their pains amidst all the hurry and business of Government, have shed much honour and reputation on them. In his Discourse of Physiognomy, he first remarks on the Vanity of Astrology and Chiromancy. He looks on the countenance as the Epitomy of the whole man representing (if dissembling intervene not) all the in ward passions and motions of the Soul: and this upon the account, that the temperament of the Body, influencing the manners of the Mind, does also dispose variously the lineaments,complexion, feature and air of the face. Then describing the differences of Complexions, with Physiognomical signs thence ariseing; shewing also what Effects Climat, custom, and dissimulation have in altering the face; giveing a brief account of Cholerick Phlegmarick,Sanguine,and Melancholly dispositions; recounting some signs of Vertues and Vices in men; and lastly reckoning up the humours and manners of several particular nations: the Author seems to have brought together all the most general Rules, and to have given the Reader a Scheme and Prospect of the whole art of Physiognomy. In his Discourse of Monsters; he is of opinion that the Monsters (234) Monsters of Egypt and other parts of Africa are mostly produc'd by a promiscuous venery of Beasts of various Species brought together to rivers by a common thirst. As for those which happen among creatures of the same Species, he likes not the causes assign'd by any of the Antients; but rather adheres to the Moderns: who, by giveing greater light into the nature of Regular conceptions than the Antients could, may also much more assist in the explaining those which are irregular. Wherefore laying down this as a Foundation, what Seneca formerly asserted of the Seed, and what the Moderns have demonstrated by Microscopes more truly of Eggs; that all the lineaments of the Faetus upon conception are there perfectly drawn; that the constitution of the Parents influences the texture of the Faetus; that the imagination of the Female (proved by Jacobs Experiment and several other instances) hath an interest in feature, shape, and various marks of an otherwise perfect Ofspring: he proceeds to infer, that even in imperfect products, either any want of Vigour from the Male, or want of Nourishment from the Female may cause an abbreviation or total defect of some Member or other, and if the spirits of the mother be by any accident, (as fear, anger, desire, or aspect of some unusual thing) disturb'd in the distribution of nourishment,and as it were called away and imploy'd about other objects: the Fabrick of the Embryo must needs be alter'd, abrupt, or misplac't; be deficient, or quite destroyed, and if more nourishment be pour'd in upon the tender Fibres than they can bear, the Fibres must break and monstious Excrescencies ensue; or the parts remain indistinct and confounded. If the Coats of two Eggs stick together, or break into each other: a Monster with two bodies will be born. Thus far our Author thought fit to entertain his Auditors about some general causes of Monsters: (235) sters: and designing his discourse onely as an Inaugural Oration to his Anatomical lectures, chooses rather to promise a Just tract of the Subject some other time, than now to pretend to any accuracy; which the decent brevity of a Speech made both improper and unseasible. 