X. Extracts of Two Letters from Mr. James Latterman, Student in Physic and Surgery, to Dr. Schlosser, now residing in London, concerning the Effects of the Agaric of the Oak, after some of the most capital Operations in Surgery. To which are added, Some remarkable Experiments made upon the Arteries of Horses, with the Powder of the Lycoperdon, or Lupi Crepitus; by Monsieur La Fosse, Farrier to the King of France. Communicated by Mr. Joseph Warner, F. R. S. Surgeon of Guy's Hospital. Extract of the First Letter, dated at Paris, January 15, 1755. DR. Latterman informs Dr. Schlosser of his having made application to Monsieur Andouillet, Monsieur Moreau, and to many other surgeons of note, to know upon what subjects, and how often, they have made use of the agaric of of the oak. Monsieur Andouillet informs Dr. Latterman, Read Feb. 13. 1755. [37] terman, that he had applied it after six amputations, and successfully; three times after amputations of legs above knee; and three times after amputations of legs below the knee. Monsieur Moreau, surgeon to the Hotel Dieu, informs Dr. Latterman, that he had applied the agaric of the oak, after several amputations of legs below the knee, and after several amputations of the arm both above and below the elbow, and every time with success: that their method of applying it is by placing pieces of the agaric upon the mouths of the vessels, and upon them dossils of lint. Extract of the Second Letter, dated at Paris, February 5, 1755. DR. Latterman informs Dr. Schlosser, that Monsieur Andouillet, surgeon of the Charite, has lately amputated a leg above the knee. He applied the agaric of the oak in the usual manner, and no bleeding at all has since happened. Two days after the operation, the Doctor saw him remove the dressings, and the whole of the agaric: the mouths of the vessels appeared quite closed, and he made no farther use of the agaric to the wound. The patient has a fair prospect of doing well; and the wound appears properly digested. Dr. Latterman then proceeds to give Dr. Schlosser an account of some experiments made upon the principal arteries of horses, after being divided. Dr. Latterman observes, that the virtues of the powder of the lycoperdon, or the lupi crepitus, have been Read Feb. 13, 1755. [38] been known for some time; but that Monsieur la Fosse has made them more conspicuous by his experiments. His first observation is this, that, upon applying it upon the mouths of the largest arteries, when divided, the bleeding has ceased in a few minutes, and that the mouths of the divided arteries have healed up without any farther discharge. His second observation is, that in twenty-four hours after the application of this powder, a thin pellicle or skin is formed upon the mouths of the divided arteries, and that within the vessels is found a small plug of congealed blood. His third observation is, that the pulsation of the artery is to be seen in a very distinct manner at the extremities of the vessels. His fourth observation is this, that the coagulated blood is of a conical figure, whose basis is at the mouth of the vessel, and its apex in an opposite direction. Dr. Latterman says, that all these curious experiments have been verified by the commissaries of the Academy of Sciences, who, upon observation, have found them all agreeable to truth. XI. 