Of the Antiquity of the Transfusion of Bloud from one Animal to another. THere hath been of late some contest about the Origin of the Transfusion, the English first claiming it as a late Invention of theirs; the French pretending thereupon, that it had been proposed among them ten years agoe: after which, it was affirm'd upon further investigation, by some ingenious persons in England, that there it had been known 30 years agoe; whereof the Publisher of these Tracts hath good proof in his hands. But it seems, that an Italian Philosopher, in a certan Tract, entituled, Relatione dell'Esperience fatte in Inghilterra, Francia & Italia intornola Transfusione del Sangue, lately printed in Rome, (for the notice whereof. (732) whereof we are obliged to the Author of the Journal des Scavans) undertakes to prove, that the Transfusion is yet of greater Antiquity, as having been known to Libavius above 50. years since. For which, that Roman Author alledgeth a place out of the said Libavius (in Defensione Syntagmatis Arcanorum Chymicorum contra Heningum Schneumannum, actione 2. pag. 8. Edit. Francos. A. 1615.) where the Transfusion is so plainly described, that one can hardly discourse of it with more cleerness, than there is done, in these words: Adsit (saith Libavius l. c.) Juvenis robustus, sanus, sanguine spirituoso plenus: Adstet exhaustus viribus, tenuis, macilentus, vix animam trahens. Magister artis habeat tubulos argenteos inter se congruentes, aperiat arteriam robusti, & tubulum inserat muniatque; mox & agroti arteriam sindat, & tubulum faemineum infigat. Jam duos tubulos sibi mutuo applicet, & ex sano sanguis arterialis, calens & spirituosus saliet in agrotum, unaque vitae fontem afferet omnemque languorem pellet. This indeed is cleer enough, and obliges us to averre a greater antiquity of this operation, than before we were aware of; though'tis true, Libavius did not propose it but only to mock at it (which is the common fate of new Inventions, in their Cradle;) besides that he contrives it with great danger, both to the Recipient and Emittent, by proposing to open Arteries in both; which indeed may be practised upon Brutes, but ought by no means upon Man. 