(1) Numb. 101. Beginning the Tenth Year. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. March 25. 1674. The CONTENTS. The Preface to the Tenth Year of these Tracts. Notice of a New Discovery concerning Nova Zembla. An Accompt of a Way of Extracting a Volatil Salt and Spirit out of Vegetables, by Dr. Daniel Cox. An Observation of Dr. Johnstons of Pomphret concerning some Stones of a perfect Gold-colour, found in Animals. Extracts of two Letters, written by Mr. Sandius touching the Origin of Pearls. An Accompt of some Books: I. An Attempt to prove the MOTION of the Earth from Observations, made by Robert Hook, Fellow of the R. Society. II. A Body of MILITARY MEDICINES experimented, by Raymundus Mindererus, &c. III. EPHEMERIDUM MEDICO-PHYSICARUM Germaniae ANNUS TERTIUS. IV. Englands INTEREST and IMPROVEMENT, &c. by Samuel Fortrey Esquire. V. A Discourse of the FISHERY, &c. by Roger L'Estrange Esquire. The Preface to the Tenth Year of these Tracts. UNder the favourable Countenance of those Worthies who are addicted to the Advancement of Arts and Sciences, I hold on my resolutions by Gods assistance, To endeavour the publishing a Ninth Volume of Philosophical Communications, in this Tenth year of my undertakings of this kind, beginning an A other (2) other Century in this present March: My first Volume containing the two first years, as partly interrupted by our public Calamities, and part of the time laid out for Instructions and Exemplars to prepare and incline our generous Correspondents, to adhere closely to the Truth of Nature by faithful Experiments, and to evidence of matter of fact in their Historical Narrations. And I shall not here take much notice of the Obstructions and Discouragements, that have been and are cast in our way by the Malevolent, they being sufficiently punish't by this, that they exclude themselves from the knowledge of Gods admirable Works and of ingenious Inventions. Mean while, the Virtuosi may encourage themselves and receive satisfaction from that noble Elogy, which was long ago provided for them by the elegant Poet Claudian; Ipsa quidem VIRTUS precium sibi, Solaq; late Fortunae secura nitet, nec fascibus ullis Erigitur, plausuve petit clarescere vulgi; Nil opis externae cupiens, nil indiga laudis, Divitiis animosa suis, immotaque cunctis Casibus, ex alta mortalia despicit arce: Attamen invitam blande vestigat, & ultro Ambit honorThe very same, in effect, with a more antient and a more genial Poet, (Horace,) tuned to his Lyre, in the age, and in the ear, and with the high applause of great Augustus Caesar; Virtus, repulsae nescia sordidae, Intaminatis fulget honoribus, Nec sumit, aut ponit secures, Arbitrio popularis aurae. Virtus, recludens immeritis mori Caelum, negata tentat iter via, Caetusque vulgares, & udam Spernit humum, fugiente penna. And an other, (Ovid) in few words, lays down the grounds and withall the final unsuccessfulness, of all our adversaries calumnies and rallieries; Pascitur in vivis Livor, post fata quiescit; Tunc suus ex merito quemque tuetur Honos. De Consulatu Mallii Theodori Panegyris. Carm. 1. 3. Ode 2. L. I. Amor. And (3) And the Prince of Latin Poets, Virgil, saw amongst his Heroes in his flowry Elysium, the Valiant for their Countrey, the Eloquent, and the Inventors of Arts for humane Accomodations, and those who purchased lasting Honor by real merit: These, he saw there crown'd with Garlands as white as snow: Heic manus, ob patriam pugnando vulnera passi; Quique pii Vates, & Phaebo digna locuti; Inventas aut qui vitam excoluere per Artes, Quique sui memores alios fecere merendo: Omnibus his nivea cinguntur tempora vitta. These old Eloges do justly belong to our Noble Friends and worthy Correspondents, who do spend so much of their Lives, and Labors, (and some their Treasures also,) to oblige even the ungrateful, and their yet unborn Posterity. Now I go on chearfully and with a resolved mind, beginning with 