195 J XI. On a ,native lirseniate of Lead. By the Rev. Williamr Gregor. Communicated by Charles Hatchett, Esq. F. R. Sa. Read April 13, 1809. THAT the oxide of lead and the arsenic acid, might be found in the state of natural combination, is a supposition highly probable, from the strong affinity which subsists between these two substances. But the existence of such a compound has not, as I conceive, hitherto been established by such proofs, as entitle it to be ranked amongst the decided cases of mineralogical science. I trust, therefore, that the observations, which I have the honour of submitting to the Society, on a new * ore of lead lately discovered in the county of Cornwall, so justly celebrated as well for the variety as for the richness of its mineral productions, will not be deemed superfluous. This mineral was raised in the mine called Huel-Unity, a very rich copper mine, in the parish of Gwennap, According to the information with which I have been favoured by Mr. WILLIAm D kvEY, a very intelligent and experienced miner nll that district, it was found in a lode south of F-uel-Unity principal lode, at the depth of fifty fathoms below the surface, * It is new at least to the miners in Cornwall; nor was there, previously to this discovery, a ny ore resembling it to be found in that splendlid collection of minerals, which my valuable friend PHILIP RASH LEIGH, Esq. hlas so liberallyformedi and liberally employed in the promotion of Science. 196 Mr. GREGOR on a native Arseniate of Lead. which lode underlay about two feet in the fathom south: at the depth abovementioned this lode fell in, or formed ajunction with another small lode or vein to the south, and when the junction took place, this lead ore was found. The veins of it are, in general, from six to ten inches wide, and they diverge on going west. Some particles of this lead ore have been found in the southern part, after the separation of the lodes but the northern lode does not contain any, until the junction takes place. This ore is intermixed-with some native copper, very rich gray copper, and black copper ore, and some is mixed with quartz. The. walls of both veins are killas. II. Description. This mineral is regularly crystallized. The form of its most perfect crystals is an hexaedral prism; they are of different sizes, from one tenth of an inch in diameter, to the size of a hair. The longest which I have seen, do not exceed three tenths of an inch in length: these terminate in a plane, at right angles, with the axis of the prism ; but the crystals of a smaller size are frequently drawn out into a very taper acumination, which appears to be a six-sided pyramid. A num ber of smaller crystals are often closely packed together in bundles, which are bent in different directions, and terminate in a point. The larger crystals, either stand alone, or adhere, on their lateral planes'to the gangue, or are confusedly matted together in a mass. Some of them are hollow,-as if an internal nucleus had been destroyed: and sometimes this internal nucleus overtops the external laming. The gangue is a white quartz, which fre" Mr. GREGOR oa a1 tive ,Irsen'ate of Lead. 197 quently exhibits on its surface the appearance of a partial den composition. The red octaedral copper ore, and the cilpp;r into which that ore passes, are often intermingled with the cry stals of this lead ore and inbedded in them. The colour of these crystals consists of a variety of tints of yellow. Some are of a beautiful wine yellow resemblhrg the Brazilian topaz this, in the greater number of speciP-rlens, passes into a delicate Isabella-colour: whilst, in other cases, we have the honey-yellow mingled with brown hues of different intensities: so that we meet with crystals resembii-ng dark brown sugar-candy, or common resin. Some of the crystals are beautifully transparent, whilst others possess this quality in part only, at their extremities, or in inferior degrees throughout their whole lengths. The external lustre in some specimens, is vitreous; in others, resinous: but in some instances their surface is partially co. vered by tender and delicate filaments of a silky lustre. Trhese filaments are sometimes found in a separate state loosely ado hering to quartz; and they form a variety of this fossil. The crystals vary as to hardness, The angular fragments of the most transparent are sufficiently hard to scratchglass. This mineral is easily reduced to powder, which has the appearance of pounded resin; it contracts a yellower tint by long exposure to the air. The specific gravity of the purest crystals, taken at the temp. 5O? FAHRENCHU, was 6.41. WDCCCIX. D d 198 Mr. GREGOR on a native Arseniate of Lead. IM. A fragment of crystal exposed to the flame of the blowpipe in a gold spoon, melted into a brownish yellow mass,which on cooling did not assume any angular figure. It remained in a state of ignition apparently unaltered; but when a piece of it was exposed to the flame onl charcoal, a rapid decomposition took place, arsenical vapours were extricated, and globules of a metal possessing the common properties of lead, were left behind. This mineral, in a state of fine powder, is soluble in nitric acid, even without the aid of heat. Care, however, must be taken, that it does not concrete into lumps. The vessel therefore which contains it must be frequently shaken, and the nitrat of lead produced must be, from time to time, dissolved in water, and poured off from the residuum. The process of solution is, however, accelerated by a digesting heat. Some silica remains, which, as-the quantity of it is variable accord. ing to circumstances, appears not to be an essential ingredient of this fossil. The nitric solution is colourless; its transparency is not disturbed by nitrat of barytes. Nitrat of silver renders it turbid, and a small quantity of white curdly matter is deposited. Sulphuric acid and the liquid sulphats, produce copious precipitates of a white heavy matter. If the fluid be poured off from this subsided matter, and it be freed from the superfluous sulphuric acid, by the means of nitrat of barytes, it will yield, on the affusion of liquid nitrat of lead, an abundant white precipitate, which urged by the flame of the blow-pipe on a support of charcoal, resolves itself into reduced lead and arsenical vapoturs. Mr,, GnTGOR on a native Arseniate of Lead. a99 These preliminary experiments led me to thre probable conclusion, that this fossil chiefly consisted of oxide of lead, arsenic acid, and a small quantity of the muriatic acid. IV. Analysis. A. i. Fifty grains, carefully selected from crystals of a pale Isabella-colour, were reduced to a fine powder and exposed to a low red heat for about an hour. Their weight was dimi. nished by 0.15 of a grain. 2. The yellowish powder was now transferred to a vessel of pure silver, and mixed with a lixivium containing fifty grains of potash, prepared by the means of alcohol; a quantity, which I had previously ascertained to be sufficient to effect a complete decomposition of this mineral. The ley was grad dually evaporated to dryness in a sand-bath. The soluble part was extracted by distilled water, and poured off from a yellowish white matter, which was sufficiently edulcorated (a). 3. Liquid nitrat of ammonia was now dropped into the alkaline fluid, as long as it produced any cloudiness: the clear fluid was now decanted from a small quantity of white matter, which had subsided, and rendered acid by nitric acid; ammonia, added to excess, produced a slight turbidness. These precipitates, -after sufficient edulcoration, were added to the yellowish white residuum (a). 4. The liquid was now rendered slightly acid by nitric acid, and a solution of nitrat* of lead in distilled water was dropped * If the colourless liquid oxynitrat of lead be dropped into a dilute solution of arsenic acid, or of arseniat of potash acidulated by nitric acid, no immediate precipitv. D d 2 200 Mr. GREGoR on a nitiuve Arseniate of Lead. into it, as long as it separated ally precipitate. The clear fluid was poured off, and evaporated nearly to dryness, and a small quantity of white matter, thus obtained, was added to the former precipitate, which dried, and exposed to a low red heat weighed, whilst still warm, 408, which, according to the proportion of 33: loo, established by Mr. CHENEVIX, implies 13,4,6 of arsenic acid. 5. The superfluous lead was now separated from the fluid by sulphat of soda, and filtered off. Ammonia precipitated a minute portion of flaky matter ; it weighed, after ignition, 0.2 of a grain ; it consisted of silica and oxide of lead, and must be attributed to the nitrat of lead employed. B. I. The yellowish white residuum (a) (A, ? 2.) was dis, solved without effervescence in nitric acid, except a minute portion of silica, which, after ignition, o o=,28. A white heavy matter was thrown down from this solution, by liquid sulphat of soda. The clear decanted fluid was evaporated to a small volume, and sulphat of soda produced a further separation of -lwhite matter; It was sulphat of lead, which after exposure to a low red heat, and weighed, whilst warm, = 475., which, upon the supposition that one hundred parts of sulphat of lead contain 69.74, of lead + 3.48 of oxygen, is equivalent to 34.77 of oxide of lead. 2. The fluid, now freed from lead, deposited, on the affution of an arseniat of lead is produced; but crystalline grains are, after a time, gradually deposited at the bottom of the vessel. But liquid nitrat of lead causes an immediate and abundant precipitate from these same dilute solutions. These two eombinations therefore must be different, Mr. GRnGoRo on a native Arseniate of Lead. 201 sion of amtnonia, a greenish matter, which, after ignition, became red, and o.o of a grain. It was oxide of iron. C. 1. One hundred grains of larger crystals, some of which were hollow, and the surfaces of which were slightly and partially covered with silky filaments, treated in the same way yielded 95.283 of sulphat of lead equivalent to 69.76 of oxide, ard 80 of arseniat of lead, which indicates 26 4o of ar> senic acid. The oxide of iron, in this case, amounted to only .o5 of a grain, and the residuary silica was in too small a quantity to be weighed. 2. 1 have endeavoured to decompose this fossil by boiling it to dryness in a solution of four times its weight of the purest subcarbonat cf potash, and exposing the dry mass, for a very short time, to a low red heat ; but I found, that only a part of the arsenic acid had united to the alkali; the larger portion: of it was detected in the nitric solution of the residuum; but the relative proportions of the oxide and the acid, were found to correspond almost exactly with the foregoing statement of therm. :. I found also, that carbonat of ammonia precipitated thismineral, in an unaltered state, from its solution in nitric acid: as no arsenic acid had united with the precipitant, The solution of the nitrat oif amrnonia was evaporated to dryness, and exposed to a red heat in a platina crucible; but nothing was-left, except a slight trace of oxile of lead. We may infer from hence, the absence of botL-h the xfixed alkalies. 4. I found in one specimen only of this fossil aniy notable difference in the relative proportioni s.the oxide of lead and TOS Mr. GREGOR en a zati've Arseniate of Lead, of the acid, to whliich it is united. It consiste.d f -crystals con. fusedly matted together in a more comtpact rnnass, than this fossil generally assumes. One hund-i~Ad grains were dissolved-in nitric acid; the marine acid was sepafat-eJ by nitrat of silver, and any redundant silver by murlat of apmmonia. The lead was separated by sulphuric acid, and the superfluous portion of that acid by nitrat of barytes, and the arsenic acid was combined with the oxide of lead by the aflusion of nitrat of lead. The muriat of silver = 9,8; the suiphat of lead 97.6, and the arseniat of lead 72, equivalent to 1.63 of nuriatic-acid, 71, 46 of oxide of lead, and 2, c388 of arsenic acid, respectively. The quartz 0= ,35, and the oxide of iron .o.w, nearly, Another portion taken from the sanie specimen treated with an alkali, gave very nearly a similar result. D. It will now be necessary for me to speak concerning an .in gredient of this fossil, which I may have seemed to overlook. I mean the muriatic acid: I have found some difficulty in ascertaining the proportion which it bears to the other constituent parts, and from a cause, which I did not suspect. I considered that the only sure mode of determining this pt Kint, was to have recourse to nitrat of silver, which might efi:CCt a direct separation of the marine acid from the nitric soluIv"101 of thisfossil. But I found, in many experiments upon given quantities of this mineral, that the results, which I deriv.ed from this most valuable chemical test, were variable and uncertain. At last, I was enabled to trace the error and uncertainty up to two sources. In the first place, I found that the murat of Mr. GREGOTI on a native Arseniate of Lead. 2ech silver was more abundant in the cases, where I employed a vessel with a long neck for the solution, and did not expose it to heat. I concluded therefore, that when the process was conducted under different circumstances, the predominating mass of nitric acid produced its effect, and volatilized a portion of the muriatic. Another source of error I found in the following anomalous circumstance, viz. a simultaneous precipitation of a portion of arseniat of lead takes place with that of the muriat of silver. Whatever combination this may be, it is a weak one, and may be severed by nitric acid, which dissolves the arseniat and leaves the muriat; or by ammonia, which takes up the muriat, to the exclusion of the arseniat. The conclusion, to which many experiments have led me, is this, that the muriat of silver produced in the nitric solution of one hundred grains of arseniat of lead by nitrat of silver, amounts to about 9.5. E. In order to prove that the acid, which is combined with the oxide of lead in this mineral, is the arsenic acid, and that it is not combined with phosphoric, I decomposed some of its acid, which had been combined with lead in the foregoing experit ments, by means of sulphuric acid, and filtered off the sulphat of lead. The fluid which passed through the filter was evaporated nearly to dryness, and it assumed the appearance of crystalline grains. Some of it was exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe in a gold spoon ; at first it became like a white dry powder, which melted before an increased heat: placed 204i Mr. GREGoR on a native Arseniate of Lead. on charcoal and ignited, it was totally dissipated in arsenical fumnes. Some of it was dissolved in water, and dropped into liquid suIphat of titanium, a white precipitate was produced: combned with soda, it precipitated silver fromn the nitrat of silver, of a brick colour, It precipitated mrcury rom its nitrat, of a vellodish colour, which afterwards became reddish. This precipitate exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe on charcoal, exhibited the same phenomena as arseniat of mercury. I precipitated magnesia from its muriat, and redissolved it by carbonat of ammonia, perfectly saturated with carbonic acid. I divided this liquid into two portions, and dropped into both a solution of the combination of the acid of this mineral and soda. No precipitate was produced. I dropped into one of the vessels some liquid phosphat of soda, and a separation of saline matter was instantly produced. I soon, however, found, that this mode of distinguishing the phosphoric from the arsenic acid could not be depended upon. For in the other vessel, in which no phosphat of soda had been dropped, in a short time, saline tufts made their appearance, and an abundant deposition of sa'ine matter was formed. I found also, that if the solution had been more concentrated, the precipitation would have immediately taken place. On making a comparative experiment with arsenic acid, I found that it forms a triple salt with ammonia and magnesia, analogous to the phosphoric salt described by Dr. WOLLASTONS The figure of the arsenical salt, as far as I could determine it from a confused crystallization, is a Iriedral prismn. We are therefore, I think, authorized from the experiments herein detailed, to conclude, that the fbssil which is the subject AMrd GREGoR 01 a native Alrseznate of Lead. 205 Af this paper, is an arseniat of lead, and that if we state that -he relative proportiont of the constituent parts of it are in one nulndred, as followvs, we shall not be far fromn the truth: Oxide of lead 6 9476 Arsenic acid 26,40 Muriatic acid .8 The silica and the oxide of ironc which account for a portion of the loss, and the alumina and copper which are sometimes found in an analysis of this fossil, I do not conceive to be essential to it. The existence of a minute portion of muriatic acid as a constant ingredient of it, is a curious fact: and it is still more curious, whcnl we consider it in connexion with the analogy, that in this particular it maintains with the natural phosphats of I ad. Crieed, March I, 1809. .MDCIX. E e 