(762) VI. An Account of B O O K S. I. Horti Indici Malabarici. Pars Septima, Octava, & Nona; with some Remarks upon them. THE Six first Tomes being abbreviated in the Philosoph. Transact. N. 145, and N. 198. This proceeds with the 7th, 8th and 9th, the fruitful Product of that great Maecenas of the Botanick, and other Natural Studies, the Noble Heer Van Rheed, whose vast Designs being not confin'd to Asia alone, have already survey'd and describ'd the most luxuriant part of Africa, which he intends to publish (after the finishing of these his Oriental Discoveries) with the same Fidelity, Exactness and Magnificence that we see in the admirable Work before us. The 7th Part treats of Scandent and Bacciferous Shurbs, the greatest part whereof were never taken notice of by any Writer, or else but very imperfectly touch'd upon: As the Natsjatam or Battavalli, which is the Cocculus Indicus of our Shops, us'd in Ointments or Pastes for the intoxicating of Fish, and driving away Lice and Vermine. It is semper-virent, and grows in sandy places up and down the Kingdom of Malabar, and other Eastern Countries: The Leaves are thick set, of the shape of a Heart, and of a bitter taste. The Flowers come out in Clusters, are monopetalose, with five Laciniae or Incisures, all reflected, like those of the Nightshade, sending forth an Odour like that of Eldar. To these (793) these succeed the Fruit, resembling Grapes, only 'tis monococ; first green, then white, afterwards red, and lastly (when ripe) black. The Indians beat the whole Plant up with Ginger, spread it upon Flanel, and so take off their Corns, and soften their Feet; sometimes they use only the Fumigation of the Root burnt with Bufalo's Excrements and the Bambou Reed. After the History of the Coculus Indicus, the Publisher gives us 4 sorts of Caniram, all a-kin to the Nux Vomica of our Shops, of which more in the next. Schembra-valli, and Vallia-Pira Pitica seem to be two wild Vines, climbing up the Trees in thick Woods; they (as also many other Plants in the hot Climates) are never divested of Leaves and Fruit, (of which there will be both green and ripe at the same time) always flowring and bearing through the whole year under a kind Sun, whose Influence is not so bountiful to the European Regions. Malago-Codi is our round, black and white Pepper, which are the same, only the latter is decorticated. Cattu-Tirpali is the long Pepper of the Indians, which they chew with Calx and the Nut Taufel, (the Fruit of a Palm named Arequa) colouring their Spittle with a red Tincture. These three Species of Pepper, with two more of the same Family, are all fully describ'd, and exactly figur'd in this 7th Tome. Cari villandi, a sort of Sarsaparilla, for which 'tis us'd by the Natives of Malabar; 'tis not unlike the American Smilax, call'd Jupecanga by Margrave and Piso, and Macapatli by Hernandez and Recchus, who make 4 Species of Sarsa, all bacciferous. Mendoni, or the Lilium Superbum Zeylanicum, one of the choicest Ornaments of the English and Dutch Gardens, growing up to a very high stature. The Gentiles ascribe strange Vertues to the Root in Sympathy, Incantations, and other Magick Operations. The Fruit F f 2 (or (764) (or rather Excrescence) sticking to the Root, stops and curbs the proud Flesh of Ulcers, and is successfully given in difficult Births. To these we might add many other rare Plants contain'd in this 7th part: As 4 sorts of Indian Ivy, not unlike our Trifoliate and Quinquefoliate Creepers: Several Exotick Night-shades, one resembling our Dulcamara; great variety of Battata's, or Ricophora's, very near a-kin to our Potatoes, being also of general use in the Kitchins of India. A curious sort of Cuscuta or Dodder, running up and choaking the Boughs of Trees. A beautiful Scandent Reed like the Rotang, with many others. Horti Malabarici. Pars Octava. THE 8th Tome describes and figures 51 herbaceous and arborescent Plants, the greatest part of them pomiferous or leguminose. The first 23 Species may be all referr'd to the Pumpions, the Coloquintida's, the Cucumbers, the Balsom Apples, the Passion Flowers or Maracocks, of all which there are great Varieties in both the Indies. Modira.caniram, Tab. 24. pag. 47. contains in its Fruit the round flat Stone or Seed, commonly call'd in our Shops the Nux Vomica: The Wood of this Tree is said to be the True Lignum Colubrinum, a-kin to the Caniram of the First Tome of this Work, Fig. 37. pag. 67, 68. which is the Famous Antidote or Specifick against the Bitings of that Indian Serpent, call'd by the Portugueses. (765) gueses Cobra Copello, whose flat Head is mark'd with the Figure of a pair of Spectacles. This Viper or Serpent I have seen in Mr. Charlton's excellent Museum. The Juice of the Leaves (though poysonous) apply'd externally, drives away the Gout call'd Valvida by the Indians of Malabar. Breynius in his Second Prodromus makes the Caniram, and Modita-Caniram to be Tree Night-shades, Solanum arboreum Indicum maximum foliis Oenopliae sive Nepecae,&c. pag. 92, 93. But whether the Nux Vomica is properly the seed of a Solanum, I leave to the more nice Botanists to determine. Amongst the Leguminose Plants of this 8th Part, the Perim-kaku-valli is remarkable, which bears a prodigious large Lobe, containing 30 great flat Beans, out of each whereof they make entire Purses and Snuff-boxes: These Seeds are call'd by some Cor Sancti Thomae, and by others Fabae purgatrices. They are so common and plentiful in the Islands and Continent of India, that whole Ships may be loaded with them. Nai-Coranna is the Phaseolus Surattentis Siliqua hirsut a pungente, or our Couage, whose blistering or pricking is soon cur'd by the Herb call'd Thumba. The Pod and Seed of this Kidney-bean are esteem'd high provocatives to Venery, (perhaps by the same reason that Cantharides are) and a successful Medicine in Dropsies. There is another Species of this pungent Couage in Malabar call'd Kaku-valli, a-kin to, if not the same with the Macouna of Brasil, describ'd by Margrave and Piso. Schanga-Cuspi is the Flos Clitorius of Breynius, the Juyce is Vomitive, and the root Purgative. Konni a sort of Abrus or Liquorice, whose Bean is commended in the Haemorrhoids. Ana-Mullu, call'd by the Portugueses Hasticanto and Fabas Turquesca, remarkable for its many Galls or Excrescencies full of Insects, as also for its strong sharp Prickles, with which the Indians bore their Ears for the hanging of their various Pendents of Gold and Precious (766) Precious Stones. Paeru and Katu Paeru, call'd by the Chineses Lak Goetum, two most delicious Phaseoli, or Kidney-beans, cultivated by the Orientals with extream diligence as the best sort of nourishment. Penarvalli, resembling the Ahovai of Thevet in its Fruit, hanging down like Bandaliers, hence call'd Fruita Bandoliera by the Portugueses. This Plant is us'd as a powerful Antispasmodick by the Indians. The rest of the Herbs in this 8th Tome may be referr'd to the Halicacabum, Aristolochia Clematitis, and the Phaseolus, of the last of which there are many Species in this Volume. Horti Malabarici. Pars Nona. THE 9th Part gives us the full History of 87 Plants with their lively Icons. The first 17 are all Apocynum's, some creeping, others scandent, and some arborescent, resembling Neriums or Oleanders; of these there is a wonderful Variety in Malabar, differing in their Lanigerous or Cotton-like Seed Vessels; their milky Juyces are generally corrosive and poysonous. The Todda vaddi of our Author, Tab. 19. is the Herba Viva of Acosta, which grows in many Provinces of Persia; 'tis esteem'd as a great Traumatick and Lithonthriptick. Coletta-Veetla, call'd by Dr. Herman Eryngium Zeylanicum febrifugum, floribus luteis. The Indians chew the Leaves instead of Betel with the Faufel or Arequa, and give the Juice in the Apthae or Thrush. There are also in this 9th Volume several sorts of Trifoliate and Sinapistrums, many papilionaceous and winged Plants referable to the Ferrum Equinum, (767) num, Astragalus, Onobrychis, to the AEschynomene's, Herba Casta, Mimosa's, to the Sensitive and Humble Plants, to the Genistella Tinctoria. Of the Crotalaria (call'd so from the ratling of the Seed, which the little Indians play with) there are 5 or 6 different kinds. The rest are a-kin to the Euphrasia, Pulmonaria, Verbascum, Persicaria, Digitalis, Hedera terrestris, Lysimachia. Of the Sesamum we have two distinct Species in this part, as also of the Teucrium, &c. with accurate Descriptions, Figures and Uses; for all which the Work it self may be consulted. II. A (768) II. A Collection of Curious Travels and Voyages, in Two Tomes. The first containing Dr. Leonhart Rauwolff's Itinerary into the Eastern Countreys, &c. The Second taking in many parts of Greece, Asia Minor, Egypt, Arabia, &c. from the Observations of Monsieur Belon, Mr. Vernon, Dr. Spon, Dr. Smith, Dr. Huntingdon, Mr. Greaves, and others. To which are added Three Catalogues of Plants growing in the Levant. By John Ray, S. R. S. THIS Work contains the Observations of so many curious and learned Travellers, that it may justly be esteemed the most Judicious and Choicest Collection that ever was yet publish'd of the Levant, and some other adjacent Countries. The first Itinerary is that of Dr. Leonard Rauwolff who under the Protection and Encouragement of the House of Austria, travel'd into many of the Eastern Parts of the World, where he made it his principal business to visit all the Shops, Ware-houses, Exchanges, Gardens, Woods, &c. in order to learn their Drugs, Merchandises, Arts, Sciences, Trades, and the Products of Nature, most of which he brought home with him. The late Isaac Vossius kept 4 large Volumes of Rauwolff's Collections, as one of the rarest Cimelium's in all his Library. These are now preserv'd with great Care at Leyden (769) Leyden, and shewn to Strangers amongst the many Curiosities of that flourishing University. Rauwolff begins his Voyage at Auspurg, from whence he travel'd to Marseilles, and there embark'd for Tripoli, touching in his Passage upon many Islands of the Mediterranean Sea, as Scicily, Malta, Candy, and Cyprus. He describes with great exactness the City of Tripoli, with its Fruitful Neighbourhood and Trade; he is very particular in his Account of the stately Bagnio's, of the Caravanzeries, the Batzars, the Fundiques, and indeed of all their publick and private Buildings: He tells us the ways how the Turks prepare their Rusma, their Soap and Pot-ashes, and afterwards enumerates the Trees, Shrubs and Herbs growing in the adjacent Countrey: He doth not omit the common Observations of other Travellers relating to Offices, Employments, Manners, Customs, Habits, Religions, Diet, &c. From Tripoli he proceeds to Aleppo, the greatest Emporium of all the East, laying down very minutely the Rout he took. I need only take notice here, that the Author shews the same Exactness and Diligence in describing Aleppo as he did before in Tripoli; but the Traffick here being much more considerable, he therefore is the more industrious about the Drugs and Merchandize. From Aleppo he travels to Bir, and so down the Euphrates to old Babylon, describing in this Passage the City of Racka, Deer, and Ana, with many Observations upon the Arabians, and upon several places of Chaldaea, especially the Ruines of Old Babylon: He afterwards gives a full Description of Bagdet. His Return from Bagdet is through Assyria, the Consines of Persia, and the Province of the Curters, to the River Tigris, and to Mosell, the old Nineve; then he continues his Journey through Mesopotamia by the way of Zibin and Orpha to Bir, and so to Aleppo, and Tripoli G g again. (770) again. Here he gives us a most accurate Account of Mount Libanus, which he survey'd with that diligence, as never any Traveller did before him. From Tripoli he goes to Joppa, and so to Jerusalem, ~ the greatest part of Palaestine, and describing all the Holy Places, with the several Sects of Christians inhabiting there; he never omits the Plants he observ'd growing up and down. Afterwards he embarks at Tripoly for Venice, and so from thence he returns into Germany, loaded with the Spoils of the East. The Second Tome of these Collections contain great Variety: As First, Several of Monsieur Belon's Itineraries and Voyages, to Candy, Mount Athos, from thence thro' Macedonia to the Silver and Gold Mines, and so thro' Thrace to Constantinople, and from thence into AEgypt. This curious French-man was sent with Petrus Gyllius to Travel, and write the History of Quadrupeds, Birds, Fishes, Insects, Plants and Fossils, at the Expence and under the Patronage of that great Restorer of Learning, Francis the First, of immortal Memory. Secondly, Mr. Vernon's Travels thro' part of Istria, Dalmatia, Peloponnesus, Attica, and Asia Minor. This worthy Gentleman always carried along with him several useful Mathematical Instruments, and was exact in his Latitudes: Great things might have been expected from him, if he had not been unfortunately kill'd in Persia. Thirdly, The Plants observ'd by Sir George Wheeler in Greece. Fourthly, Several Miscellaneous Observations made by Dr. Smith during his Travels in the Turkish Empire. Fifthly, Mr. Greaves his Accounts of the Latitude of Constantinople, and of the AEgyptian Pyramids. This Learned~ Mathematician seems very exact in his Calculations and Measures, being furnished in his Travels with all things necessary for Observation. Sixthly, (771) Sixthly, The AEgyptian Observations of Prosper Alpinus, who resided and practised Physick several Years at Grand Caire, and afterwards for ~ great Merit was appointed Botanick Professor at Padua, by the particular Order of the Commonwealth of Venice. To these we find added in this Second Tome some curious Remarks of Dr. Huntingdon; as also several ~ries and Voyages into many parts of Arabia, as to Mecha and Medina, to Moha, Aden, Zenan, Doffar, &c. and also into AEthiopia or Habessinia, with the several ways of getting into that Kingdom, extracted from Authentick Instructions. Amongst these are inserted some Observations upon the Red Sea, for all which the Book it self may be consulted, as containing many things not commonly known, and therefore the more to be valued. At the end are inserted three Catalogues of such Trees, Shrubs and Herbs, as have been observed to grow wild in Greece, Syria, AEgypt, Candy, &c. The Names given by Rauwolff, Bellonius, Honorio Belli, &c. being either Arabian ones from Avicen, Serapio, Mesua and Rhazas; or Greek from Theophrastus and Dioscorides; or else Barbarous from the present Inhabitants: 'Twas thought therefore convenient to add the new Names of late Writers, which do much illustrate the whole. For this Addition of Catalogues the Publick is wholly oblig'd to the Pains and Skill of Mr. Ray. E R R A T A 