C: 867 a SVIII Observations on the remarkable Failure of Ilddock-s on the Coasts of Northumberland, Durham, and Yorkshire In two Letters Rom the Rev. Cooper Abbse to lAr.: lJlagdens MSec.A. S Read Jurle o4, 17929 Sundelland., May gth, I 79-2* SIR, 1 HE great 105s su$tained -by the counties of Nortllumberland Durham, and Yorkshire, by the almost total failure of Haddocks, duritlg the three last seasons, is a circumstance of seriousconsequence to these maritime counties, alld perhaps-not unworthy the notice and attention of the gentleman and philosopher. As far back as the memory of the oldest man reaches, for about three morlths in the year (boginning about Martinmas), prodigious quantities of haddocks, in fine weatherX were daily caught orl tlle above!coasts, which garre employment to great numbers of lnen, and affiorded a cheap and very acceptable article of food to all ranks of people, high and low. Besides the consumptnon on and near the coasts, great quantities were constantly carried at least a hundred miles irsto and over the courltry. 368Mr. Anssss-ObservtzonsIrl the winters 1789, I a1n very credibly inkrmed and sincerely helieve, tllat not a tenthousandt}z part (I speak much within bounds) of tlle usual quantity was taken; and I can venttlre to sayn the quarltity has beell a-otgreatera if not lnuclS lesst fbr t}le two last seasonsX to the great astonishment of tlze 3oor fshermen w. . \ I have freqllently conversed with the most experienced men in this llrae of business3 to discovern lf possible) tEle cause of this extraorctinary failure. One lman, mtith tnore teligious subluission than philosophic jutlgtnent ascribes it to the will and pleasure of the Allnight;y; a seconals to tlhe great quantities of ballast cast by the colliers into the sea, at or near the mouths of the rivers tryne and Wear. But-this seems a very inadequate reason; for grantitlg this act might in some sluall degree affict these places for a iw 1niles, yet it could not aiect the coasts at any ¢onsiderable clistancea either to the north or stwth. This last circurnstanceo has in solue degree affiected the lobsterswithin a fewuliles of tlae two riversg by fillig up the holes and cavities in or under tlle rockss where the lobsters used forulerly tv lie and rereat to ln storuly weather; so that being now irx a great measure deprived of their old abodes of security they are frequentlya in stortms and tempestss throwtl on the sh-ore, shattered and-broken irl pieces A third ascribes the failure to the great number of dogfish on the coasts; lout X suppose the numbe3: of them to be nearly the samee year by year The dogfish is very voraciouss and a great enelnr ta the fishertnarl and lliS tackle and therefore never spared when caught: besides, it is vvell known that dogfish chiefly pur sue the shoals of herrings, which have left these coasts be fore the haddocks come °n.t A fourth says the ffioal of haddocks on the remarkable lRaz'l-re of Haddocks369has met with beds of copperas at the bottoln of the sea, and t31eretoy is poisoned } but svlay should sllch beds (supposing the case true) have worse effects in <789, than at ally time before ? It is an indisputable fact, that rrzany ships, on the retllrn from Archangel, itAl the latter elld of J. 789, saw immense quantities of haddocks (no other fish were particularized) for fifty or sixty leagues) I belleve, Iying dead on the surface of the sea, but ¢ould not at that tine ascribe any cause for the eventX I believe about tnat titne an eruption broke out irs Hecla and wrllaps it may svith some degree of probaloility be cvnjectured, that volcanic matter, of noxious quality, may laave burst in the sea, and occasioned the above destruction atId fiilure ever since. ^ The few haddocks callght in -789 and -1790, wtere remark ably large; these keep nearest the shore: the srnall ones lie more out to sea; so that, when fishermell were wont to catcl small hacldocks, they desisted, and came nearer the shore to procure the large ones. The shoal generally lay about one league from the sIlore was alsout three miles in brealltlzX and in length extended near the wlaole coasts of the three COU11ties,ita constallt succession, for about three months lthe b-reed of haddocks seems nearly destroyed! oll these coas-ts, which is a loss of many thousands of pounds per -annunz to fishermPen and others, besides the loss of a very plentiful and acceptable article vf food to persons of all ranks espectally in the winter season, when the price of provisions bears hard UpOIl t e poor. Mcly I hazard one question. Is it; probable that, in the en suing winter} or a few succeeding ones, the Sshery may recover AIr. ABBS'S Obsertwationsoby the return of a shoal of haddocks ? lFor the two last winters I have waited with ansiety, but in vains for such an evrent to tal<-e place. I am, &c. : COOPER ABBSG Surldefland May 27, I 792.> SIR, Encouraged by the unexpected atld favourable attentiorl paid to my letter by Slr Joseph Banks and yourself9 I have, since tlle receiptof your favour of the lgth, daily lnounted my horse, to endeavour to gaill further information oll the mysterious subject. Three days ago, I was fortunate enough to hear of tvvo persons in Northumberland whowere at Archangel in s7Sg, ancS waited upon them yesterday. As they lived about two rniles asunder froln each other, the one at North Shields, and the other at a village in the country, I had an opportunity of . hearing, and askillg tllern qllestions separatelys --'lnheir names are, Mr JOHN STOKER, oftlle Ranger, and Mr. JOHN ARMSTRONG, of the Integrity, of North Shields, masters of ships of considerable size and value, men of sober, decetat characters intelligent and respectecl in their line of profession, from whom I received the following account, which I have every reason to believe true. That in the latter end of Julyg a789, on the light passage to Archangel, after doubling the North Cape (where they joisled eight or ten sail of large ships from various -ports and nations), and reducing their latitude from 69 to 685 between Fisher's Island and Ssveetnose, for about thirty leagues east alad south, they,, to their great surprise, for the space of three days, in which they had variable winds, or light airs, fell on the remarkable Failure of Hvddocks.37tin with immense quantities of haddocks and coalfish, and no others whaterrer (the last is an ordinary fish, and perhaps its name may be local here, and unknown to you, but I coniess I do not knowt any other nalne it has), lying on -the surface of the ocean, and sufficient, from the view they had of them for the three days, to have loaded all the ships therl irl company. That they found them for the space of between twenty and thirty leagues in length, and in breadth, to the east from three to five leaguesX as tlle ships stood off and on; but how much farther to the eastX and a few other points, they might extend, these persons cannot pretetld to sav, such points being out of their course for the ports they were destitled toO That llSOSt of the fish svere dead, though some Brere alive, as appeared by a slight motion of the tail, but in a very weak, feeble state, and 1lklable to sink irl the water. In the above particulars Messrs. STOKER atld ARMSTRONG perfectly agree, as to the truth c)f the fact. Tlle latters through cautious tismidity, prevented l-lis crew from taking up any of l;he fish; but the former took on board marly, both deaci and in a dying state, of w}zich he first aze, and thetl suSered his men to do the same: atld at Archan;el galle the remainder to -the customhouse officers, without any person reveiving the least injury. Mr. STOKER havitlg, previous to eating the fish, tried the usual experitnent at sea, of ptittin-g sil^7er into the freslln water wherein the fish were boileds the silver was not at a11 discolouredv Talking wtith Mr. STOKER;, in his parlour, I asked hiln how many fish he could take up ill that or any other given spacee EIe arswered3 that in various places: the fish lay so thickX that ir Mr.ABB$B$ Observationsx lthe cosmpass of twelve or fifteen yards a boat load, fironi three to five tcons, might have been taken up: l;hat he lneasu red several of the haddocks, from two tcs two feet eight inches in leng-th, and six or saven iches deep; about twice the size of hadeloclrs on our coasts. That he opetled all the haddocks he took o< board, and in esrery otle of them, both dead and ex pir;tlg) he savv the sound mucln inHated or blown up, to which he ascribes tlle great destruction, but without being able to give any further satisEactory reasorl. MrZ STOKER \VeI1t frO1n ArChahGe1 0 Onega; and when Mr ARMSTRONG at the fortner placen related the story to the merchants and inhabitants at the Excilatlge they replied, that they had knowtn and heard of similar accidents; and that the great cluatltity of tllunder and lightning, usual near the Cape, was the reason. To the above relatlon, which I verily believe to be just and true, I shall not pr.esutne to add a word of my own, but submit the whole to your consideration. In my excursion along the coast of Northutnberland? I foulld a {isherm-an careening his boats who told mze that, prior to tlle late :£ailure, he had frequentlys with the assistance of two men, taken and sent to Newtcastle, itl otle day, two boat l-oads of haddocksg containing in each firom eighty to a hundred score; but in the last stason he had not, in the whole, taken more than forty or fifty haddocks. He could give no rea son forthe failure but another man attributed the scarcity to the want of 11ard gales of wind f<3r sotne yearsX to blow the fish offthe Dogger Bank to: these cousts. l'he accounts received froxn Messrs. STOKER and RMSTRONG ron the remarkable Failare of Haddocks.373being more autllentic than vzrhat I had heard before, will be a; sufficient apology, I tr-llst, for the few sligllt variations in my two letters. I verily believe I cannot trace this subject further, vvithout able instructions from gentlemen well versed in a branch of kllosvledge wherein I am a novice. Iamj &c. (SO()PER ABBSaMDCCXCI I. 