XIX. On Sounds inaudible by certain ears. By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON, M. D. P. R. S. Read June 29, t82o. IT is not my intention to occupy the time of this Society, with the consideration of that mere general dullness to the impression of all kinds of sound which constitutes ordinary deafness, but to request its attention to certain peculiarities that I have observed with respect to partial insensibility in different states of the ear, and in different individuals; for I have found that an ear., which would be considered as per. fect with regard to the generality of sounds,may, at the same time, be completely insensible to such as are at one or the other extremity of the scale of musical notes, the hearing or not hearing of which seems to depend wholly on the pitch or frequency of vibration constituting the note, and not upon the intensity or loudness of the noise. Indeed, although persons labouring under common deaf. ness have an imperfect perception of all sounds, the degree of indistinctness of different sounds is commonly not the same; for it will be found upon examination, that they usually hear sharp sounds much better than low ones; they distinguish the voices of women and children better than tile deeper tones in which men commonly speak; and it may be remarked, that the generality of persons accustomed to speak to those who are deaf, seem practically aware of this differDr. WOLLASTON On sounds inaudble by ertain ears 3 ence, and, even without reflecting upon the motives which guide them, acquire a habit of speaking to deaf persons in a shriller tone of voice, as a. method by which they succeed in making them hear more effectually than by merely speak. ing louder. In elucidation of this state of hearing, which casually occurs as a malady; I have observed that other ears may for a time be reduced to the same condition of insensibility to low sounds. I waas originally led to this observation, in endeavouring to investigate the cause of deafness in a friend, by trial of different modes of closing, or otherwise lessening the sensibility of my own ears. I remarked that, when the mouth and nose are shut, the tympanum may be so exhausted by forcible attempt Sto take breath by expansion of the chest, that the pressure of the external air is -strongly felt upon the membrana tympani, and that, in this state of tension from external pressure, the ear becomes insensible to grave tones, without losing in any degree the perception of sharper sounds. The state to which the ear is thus reduced by exhaustioh, may even be preserved for a certain time without the continued effort of inspiration, and without even stopping the breath, since by sudden cessation of the effort, the internal passage to the ear becomes closed by the flexibility of. the Eustachian tube, which acts as a valve, and -prevents the return of air into the tympanum. As the defect thus occasioned is voluntary, so also is the remedy; for the unpleasant sensation of pressure on. the drum, and the partial deafness which accompanies it, may at any-instant be removed by the act of swallowing, which opens the tube, and by allowing c30 Dr. WOLLASTON on sounds the air to enter, restores the eqUilibriumn of pressure necessary to the due performance of the functions of the ear. In my endeavours to ascertain the extent to which this kind of deafness may be carried, some doubt has arisen, from the difficulty of finding sounds sufficiently pure for the purpose. The sound of stringed instruments are in this respect defective; for unless the notes produced are free from any intermixture of their sharper chords, some degree of deception is very liable to occur in the estimate of the lowest note really heard. I can, nevertheless, with considerable confidence, say, that my own ears may be rendered insensible to all sounds below F marked by the base cliff. But as I have been in the habit of making the experiment frequently, it is probable that other persons who may be inclined to repeat it, will not with equal facility effect so high a degree of exhaustion as I have done. To a moderate extent the experiment is not difficult, and well worth making. The effect is singularly striking, and may aptly be compared to the mechanical separation of larger and smaller bodies by a sieve. If I strike the table before me with the end of my finger, the whole board sounds with a deep dull note. If I strike it with my nail, there is also at the same time a sharp sound, produced by quicker vibrations of parts around the point of contact. When the ear is exhausted it hears only the latter sound, without perceiving in any degree the deeper note of the whole table. In the same manner, in listening to the sound of a carriage, the deeper rumbiing noise of the body is no longer heard by an exhausted ear; but the rattle of a chain or loose screw remains at least as audible as before oxhaustion, inaudible by certain ears. 809 Although I cannot propose such an experiment as a means of improving the effect of good music, yet, as a source of amusement even from a defective performance, I have occasionally tried it at a concert with Singular effect; since none of the sharper sounds are lost, but by the suppression of a great mass of louder sounds, the shriller ones are so much the more distinctly perceived, even to the rattling of the keys of a bad instrument, or scraping of catgut unskilfully touched. Those who attempt exhaustion of the ear for the first time, rarely have any difficulty in making themselves sensible of external pressure on the tympanum ; but it is not easy at first to relax the effort of inspiration with sufficient suddenness to close the Eustachian tube, and thus maintain the exhaustion; neither is it very easy to refrain long together fromn swallowing the saliva, which instantly puts an end to the experiment. I. may here remark, that this state of excessive tension of the tympanum is sometimes produced by sudden increase of external pressure, as well -as by decrease of that within, as is often felt in the diving-bell as soon as it touches the water--; the pressure of which upon the included air closes the -Eustachian tube, and, in proportion to the descent, occasions a degree of tension on the tympanum that becomes distressing to persons who have not learned to obviate this inconvenience, Those who are accustomed to descend, probably acquire the art of opening the Eustachian tube by swallowing, or incipient yawning, as soon as thediving-bell touches the water. It seems highly probable that, in the state of artificial MDCCCXX. S s 310 Dr. WOLLASTON on sounds tension thus produced, a corresponding deafness to low tones is occasioned, but, as I never have been in that situation, I have not had an opportunity of ascertaining this point by direct experiment. In the natural healthy state of the human ear, there does not seem to be any strict limint to our power of discerning low sounds. In listening to those pulsatory vibrations of the air of which sound consists, if they become less and less frequent, we may doubt at what point tones suited to produce any musical effect terminate ; yet all persons but those whose organs are palpably defective continue sensible of vibratory motion, until it becomes a mere tremor, which may be felt and even almost counted. On the contrary, if we turn our attention to the opposite extremity of the scale of audible sounds, and with a series of pipes exceeding each other in sharpness, 'if we examine the effects of them successively upon the ears of any considerable number of persons, we shall find (even within the range of those tones which are produced for their musical effects) a very distinct and striking difference between the powers of different individuals, whose organs of hearing are in other respects perfect, and shall have reason to infer, that human hearing in general is more confined than has been supposed with regard to its perception of very acute sounds, and has probably, in every instance, some definite limit, at no great distance beyond the sounds ordinarily heard. It is now some years since I first had occasion to notice this species of partial deafness, which I at that time supposed to be peculiar to the individual in whom I observed it. While I was endeavouring to estimate the pitch of certain sharp inaudible by certain ears. 311 sounds, I remarked in one of my friends a total insensibility to the sound of a small organ pipe, which, in resp ect to acuteness, was far within the limits of my own bearing, as well as of others of our acquaintance. By subsequent examination, we found that his sense of hearing terminated at a note four octaves above the middle E of the piano-forte. This note he seemed to hear rather imperfectly, but he could not hear the F next above it, although his hearing is in other respects as perfect, and his perception of musical pitch as correct as that of any ordinary ears. The casual observation of this peculiarity in the organ of hearing, soon brought to my recollection a similar incapacity in a near relation of my own, whom I very well remember to have said, when I was a boy, that she never could hear the chirping that commonly occurs in hedges during a summer's evenings which I believe to be that of the gryllus campestris, I have reason to think that a sister of the person last alluded to had the same peculiarity of hearing, although neither of them were in any degree deaf to common sounds. The next case which came to my knowledge was in some degree more remarkable, in as much as the deafness in all probability extended a note or two lower than in the first instance. This information is derived from two ladies of my acquaintance, who agree that their father could never hear the chirping of the common house sparrow. This is the lowest limit to acute hearing that I have met with, and I believe it to be extremely rare. Deafness even to the chirping of the house cricket, which is several notes higher, is not common. Inability to hear the piercing squeak of the bat '312 Dr. WOLLASTON on sounds seems not very rare, as I have met with several instances of persons not aware of such a sound. The chirping, which I suppose to be that of the gryllus campestris, appears to be rather higher than that of the bat, and accordingly will approach the limit of a greater number of ears; for, as far as I am yet able to estimate, human hearing in general extends but a few notes above this pitch. I cannot, however, measure these sounds with precision; for it is difficult to make a pipe to sound such notes, and still more difficult to appreciate the degree of their acuteness. The chirping of the sparrow will vary somewhat in its pitch, but seems to be about four octaves above E in the middle of the piano-forte. The note of the bat may be stated at a full octave higher than the sparrow, and I believe that some insects may reach as far as one octave 'more; for there are sounds decidedly higher than that of a small pipe onefourth of an inch in length, which cannot be far from six octaves above the middle E. But since this pipe is at the limit of my own hearing, I cannot judge how much the note to which I allude might exceed it in acuteness, as my knowledge of the existence of this sound is derived wholly from some young friends who were present, and heard a chirping, when I was not aware of any sound. I suppose it to have been the cry of some species of gryllus, and I imagine it to differ from the gryllus campestris, because I have often heard the cry of that insect perfectly. From the numerous instances in which I have now wits nessed the limit to acuteness of hearing, and from the distinct succession of steps that I might enumerate in thQ inaudible by certain ears. hearing of different friends, as the result of various trials that I have made among them, I am inclined to think, that at the limit of hearing, the interval of a single note between twivo sounds, may be sufficient to render the higher note inaudible, although the lower note is heard distinctly. The suddenness of the transition from perfect hearing to total want of perception, occasions a degree of surprize, which renders an experiment on this subject with a series of small pipes among several persons rather amusing. It is curious to observe the change of feeling manifested by various individuals of the party, in succession, as the sounds approach and pass the limits of theirC hearing. Those who enjoy a temporary triumph, are often compelled, in their turn, to acknowledge to how short a distance their little superiority extends. Though it has not yet occurred to me to observe a limit to the hearing of sharp sound in any person under 2o years of age, I am persuaded, by the account that I have received from others, that the youngest ears are liable to the same kind of insensibility. I have conversed with more than one person who never heard the cricket or the bat, and it appears far more likely that such sounds were always beyond their powers of perception, than that they never had been uttered in their presence. The range of human hearing comprised between the lowest notes of the organ and the highest known cry of insects, includes mnore than nine octaves, the whole of which are distinctly perceptible by most ears, although the vibra. tions of a note at the higher extreme are six or seven hUna314 Dr. WOLLASTON on sounds inaudible by certain ears. dred fold more frequent than those which constitute the gravest audible sound. Since there is nothing in the constitution of the atmosphere to prevent the existence of vibrations incomparably more frequent than any of which we are conscious, we may imagine that animals like the grylli, whose powers appear to commence nearly where ours terminate, may have the fa-, cultv of hearing still sharper sounds, which at present we don not know to exist, and that there may be other insects hearing nothing in common with us, but endued with a power of exciting, and a sense that perceives vibrations of the same nature indeed as those which constitute our ordinary sounds, but so remote, that the animals who perceive them may be said to possess another sense, agreeing with our own solely in the medium by which it is excited, and possibly wholly unaffected by those slower vibrations of which we are sensible. I should be always nost unwilling to occupy the time of this Society with idle speculations on mere possible modes of existence, and should not have called its attention to this subject, had I not observed several curious facts which 1 thought might prove interesting, and may serve to justify some latitude of conjecture beyond the strict evidence of our senses. 