Philo: Trans: No. 419. b O A B C h i L a A Letter to the President of the Royal Society, from Frank Nicholls, M. D. F. R. S. giving an Account of a Polypus, resembling a Branch of the Pulmonary Vein, coughed up by an asthmatic Person. S I R, NIcholas Tulpius, in the 7th Observation of his second Book, presents us with the Case of a Man who, with a large Effusion of Blood, threw up, by coughing, two Branches of the Pulmonary Vein, six Inches long, with their several Ramifications, freed from the Trachaea and Substance of the Lungs, as if dissected by the most accurate Anatomist. This Case he observes to be very extraordinary, and not to be parallell'd in the Writings of physical Authors. A little Acquaintance with the Structure of the Lungs sufficiently evinces the Impossibility of the Fact, as (124) as there stated; wherefore (not doubting the Veracity of the Author) I always believed him to be deceived by a Polypus of the Vein, which might be cough'd up in the Manner by him described. But the following Case will give another Light to this Affair. July the 18th 1730, I was consulted by. Mr. of Black Friars, on Behalf of his Brother, living in Essex, who was asthmatic, and cough'd up Phlegm resembling Worms; to remedy which, I directed the Use of a Lac Ammoniacum with Squills; from the Use of which he expectorated more easily, but continued still to cough up the same Substances. The 11th Instant, on the Road to London, he was seized with a Shivering, and pleuretic Pains; a white Tongue, hard and quick Pulse, &c. By repeated Bleeding his Pains decreased, but the Cough remained more violent than usual. On examining the expectorated Phlegm (which was tinged with Blood) I found it fibrous, and (when expanded in Water) exactly resembling the Vessels in the Lungs. These Substances are as tough as the Coats of the Veins, and (like them) hollow. Mr. has cough'd up more or less of them every Day, for seven Years; sometimes perfectly white, and sometimes tinged with Blood: Notwithstanding which, he has had no other Complaint, has had a good Appetite, and Colour, and a greater Share of Fat than any Man would choose. The Specimen here shewn (as in Fig. 1.) was expectorated, when I was present, the 16th Instant. It nearly resembles the first Draught of Tulpius, and is no more than a viscid Phlegm, secreted by the relaxed Glands of (125) of the Trachaea, and afterwards concreted by the Heat of the Part. As this may serve to explain the remarkable Case of Tulpius, so I thought it worth being communicated to the Society. I am, With great Respect, June 17. Your very humble Servant, 1731. FRANK NICHOLLS. V. 