(313) A Phytological Observation concerning Orenges and Limons, both separately and in one piece produced on one and the same Tree at Florence: Described by the Florentin Physitian Petrus Natus, and the description lately communicated to the Publisher. THis Tree was, about 30 years since, first met with in a Grove near Florence; having an Orenge-stock, which, it seems, was so grafted upon, that thence it became, in its branches, leaves, flowers and fruit,three-formed, some emulating Orenge, some Limons or Citrons, some partaking of both forms in one. And particularly as to the fruit, some of this Tree are meer Orenges,yet some of them of an oblong shape like Limons, some round like common Orenges, some between both: Others taste like genuin Orenges, others have an Orenge shell, but a Limon-pulp. Most are of a very strong scent and a shell of a very bitter taste. But then the same Tree bears also a kind of Citron-Limon,yet not so many as of the former kind. And not only so, but it produces also a fruit, that is in one both Limon, Citron and Orenge, so as you may see outwardly two sorts of fruit represented in one piece; one, Citron-Limon; the other, Orenge. But this fruit is so diversified, that some of them are half Citron-limon,halfOrenge; others have two thirds of Citron-limon and one of Orenge; others, the contrary: And of all these, some are oblong, some round, some bunchy; some smooth,some rugged; some small, some of the bigness of two pound weight. Their flesh is so distinguisht, that where the Orenge-pulp ends,that of Limon begins, and on the contrary. Again,the Orenge-pulp is narrower than that of Limon; but this is tenderer than that, not so agreeable to the taste as the genuin single fruit. And, which is none of the least remarkable things, they have either none, or very few, or empty seeds; concerning which the Author giveth this reason, that since this Tree is of the insititious kind, nor can be repaired or propagated by seed, therefore nature was not at all sollicitous in the generation of the seed. If you inquire about the first original of this Tree, our Author inquires, Whether it have grown by planting Orenge and CitronLimon seed together, and by uniting their young stems close to one another; or, whether by inoculating Orenge upon a Citron-Limon stock? Which latter he affirms, saying, that by the marriage of these Trees, repeated for many years it was come to pass, that by T t the (314) the closeness of the inoculation, whereby in length of time the mixed nature of both Trees was grown together, which the different juyces, permeating the common fibers, had for a long time nourished;whence emerged at length a germen or graft perfectly retaining the nature and species of both; into whose different branches when sometimes one, sometimes both kinds of juyces did pass, it produced on one of those branches, a meer Orenge, on another, a Citron Limon, on a third, a Citron-Limon-Orenge, and even sometimes upon one and the same branch all the three sorts of this fruit together. And thus, according to Virgil 2. Georgic. Exiit ad caelum ramis felicibus arbos, Miraturque novas frondes, & non suapoma. An. Accompt of some Books: 