V. A Letter from John Fuller, Esq; Jun. F R. S. to Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. Pres. R. S. &c. concerning the Effects of Dampier's Powder, in curing the Bite of a Mad Dog. I Imagin'd the Use of the Lychen cinereus terrestris with black Pepper, had been so infallible a Remedy for the Bite of a Mad-Dog, that there needed no Proofs of its Virtue: I myself have used it upon Dogs, and always with Success; and it is strong in my Memory, that some Years ago, a Mad-Dog or Cat (I forget which) had bit some Children and the Mother, at Battle; the Chirurgeon came over to my Brother, Dr. Rose Fuller, and we all went out in a Snow, with a Broom, and found some of it, and mix'd it as the Account of Dampier directed. They all took it, as well as a Dog or two that were bit, and none of them had any bad Effects from the Bite. This [273] This last Christmas 1737, my next Neighbour's Servant imprudently going to search whether a Dog suspected to be mad, had been worm'd, (which Dog died mad in three or four Days afterwards) was bit very much in both his Hands: He went to a Person near me, who has had such Success, as to be applied to far and near, and who told me he would venture his Life against a Crown Piece, if a Man, or any Animal, was brought to him within three or four Days after the Bite, that he cured him. I saw the Man that was bit every Morning, and he told me his Doctor went into the Fields, and gather'd an Herb that grew very near the Ground, like a dries Leaf, and mix'd it with Pepper. I shewed him some Lichen cinereus terrestris, and he said he believed it to be the same. Every Day he took his Medicine, about 10 or 11 of the Clock, he complained of a violent Heat, and Pain in his Head, which I was afraid was the Effect of the Bite, and not the Medicine: But after he had taken it for such a stated Number of Days, he grew better, and has continued well ever since.-He had tied his Fingers with Shoe-maker's Ends, which are often used for a Cut; and they were all very much inflamed, and very sore. I made him take them off, and all his Plaisters, and wash his Hands with Salt and Water, and in a Fortnight's Time they were quite well. * * * * If this Account should corroborate any Experiments already made, or incite the Skilful to make farther Search of the Usefulness of the Lichen, &c. I hope it will excuse this Trouble from, S I R, May 23. 1738. Your, &c. J. Fuller, Jun. M m 2 VI. Another 