TAB.II. Barrow N.o III. A E C A Section B D B Section Fig. 1. E B C Fig. 4. Ichnography F D A Barrow N.o IV. D A A E B Section C F C A B C Fig. 2. D E G Ichnography H Fig. 3. A Scale of feet for Barrow N.o III & IV. 30 60 90 Philos. Trans. N.o 458. Plan of Castle Gotha C B D A D C The Urn ~ J. Mynde so. TAB.I. XIV VII VIII VI IV XII III I V II 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 5 7 8 9Polgaver Point Short Horn New Horn ~ ~. Polmear ~. Dubber Point Port Pean Par Bay Flat Rock Point 8 5XIII Watering Place 5 9 9 9 6 8 Rope Haven ~ 5 7 5 Gerren Point Fowl Ground 10 12 13 14 10 5 Black Head 5 A ~ of one ~ 10 Philos. Trans. No. 458. X ~ XI Spite pointPolgaver Point 3 Pol-~ 9 4 5 4 9 Great ~ 6 5 Little ~ 10 9 one Mile. J. Mynde Sc. An Attempt to examine the Barrows in Cornwall, by Stephen Williams, M. D. F. R. S. I T may not be improper to observe, that these Barrows, or conical Hillocks, are generally situated on Places of Eminence, on or near the Summit of Downs, and so capable of being seen at a great Distance; and likewise very often near the most public or greatest Roads, though sometimes in inclosed or fenced Lands, but not often: They lic sometimes Two, Three, even Seven, in a strait Line, now-and-then only One or Two by themselves: Sometimes also the single ones seem to regard, in respect of their Position, a greater Number, as is observable in TAB. I. No IV. where the Urn was found, and No V. on the same Down. The Height and Dimensions of the Barrows in Cornwall, are various, from Four to Thirty Feet high, and from Fifteen to One hundred and Thirty broad: O o o but [466] but they always bear a regular Proportion in their Form. Some have a Fossa or Ditch round their Circumferences, others none; some a small Circle of Stones at the Top, others none; some a Circle of Stones round the extreme Verge of their Basis. The Barrows, which are the Subject of our present Inquiry, lie on the Summit of St. Auslle Downs, about a Mile from the Town, and half a Mile from the Sea; where a fine Bay is formed by Nature, well defended from most Winds, with good Anchorage, and deep Water. Mr. Mitchel, Lieutenant in the Navy, has lately taken a curious Survey of it, by Order of the Admiralty, and for the Benefit of the English Fleet. See TAB. I. B A R R O W, No I. We opened Barrow, No I. a small one, with no Ditch round it, but a small Circle of Stones on the Top, of the Height of Four Feet, of the Breadth, at the Basis, of Fifteen: When we had taken off the Surface, the Body of the Barrow seemed to be composed of foreign or adventitious Earth, which being cut through near the Centre, we found a circular Pit of a Foot deep, and of the same Diameter, dug out of the natural Soil of the Country, and Two flat Stones in it. By adventitious or foreign Earth, is meant such as does not rise on the Place, but is fetched from some Distance; so the Earth of this and the other Barrows, of a yellow Colour, is known to be the natural Soil of a Hill a Mile distant from them. B A R[467] B A R R O W, No II. The perpendicular Height is about Eight Feet, Diameter, at the Base, about Thirty Feet, with a Fossa or Ditch round it: The Surface being removed, the Body of the Barrow consisted of the adventitious Earth, of a yellow Colour, and now-and-then some small Stones interspersed, not regularly; at the Middle we found a Pit of a cylindrical Shape, Two Feet broad, and One Foot and half deep, out of the natural Soil: Over the Pit we observed Three Stones placed edgeways, to cover the same, though nothing in it but some Earth of the Barrow, and Three small Stones. B A R R O W, No III. The perpendicular Height of the Barrow was Ten Feet and half, Diameter at the Base Forty-six, with a Ditch round it: Upon removing the Heath or Grass, (which was the common Surface to all the Barrows) we observed the same yellow adventitious Earth, which being penetrated a Foot through, we found a small Circle of Stones at B, which surrounded the Barrow [TAB. II. Fig. I.]; then being passed through the same yellow Earth, we came to C, within Ten Feet of the Centre of the Barrow, where we found a Stratum or Lay of flat Stones, carefully laid flatways, to cover the rest underneath, as in the Roof of an Oven; which being taken off by the Six Tinners, (whom an ingenious Gentleman of St. Auslle, and myself, employed on Purpose) a large Bed or Heap of Stones, irregularly and confusedly mixed together, and of various Sorts, appeared, and under them a large Number of Stones artfully placed and contrived, so as to form the Shape of a Cone, O o o 2 their [468] their Points uppermost, and their largest Parts downward. Under this Heap we saw a Circle of Two Feet Diameter, equal in Height with the natural Surface of the Country, and causwayed with small Stones laid edgeways, their sharpest Point downward; which Stones being taken up, we observed a cylindrical Pit at D, Two Feet broad, and Two Feet and half deep, cut out of the natural Soil, as the former; the Sides of the Pit were carefully lined round with these flat Stones, though none at the Bottom. We met with, first, some small Stones of various Shapes and Sizes, lying irregularly; under them appeared a black greasy Matter, but not above an Inch thick; some of the adventitious Earth had crept through the Crevices of the causwayed Stones into the Pit. It deserves our serious Observation, that the Stones (which composed the Heap lying over the cylindrical Pit) were brought from Places both high and low situated, and many Miles distant from one another, as the Par, Polmeor-Clif, Hainsbarrow, Pentuan, and Carnclays, a high Hill, the Distance between some of these being Four or Five Miles. B A R R O W, No IV. Though we had hitherto found no Urn, yet being persuaded by the unctuous black Earth, and the cylindrical Pits, in the Centre of every one of the Barrows, the artful Position of the Stones to cover and guard them, and the foreign Earth, that these Barrows were erected for Sepulchres; we resolved to proceed farther, and pitched upon No IV. as one somewhat different from the rest, both as its Situation seemed to regard a greater Number of Barrows, and as [469] as its Circumference appeared to have a very large Circle of Stones round it, without any Ditch or Fossa. We began our Passage at A [TAB. II. Fig. 2.] through a Circle of Stones of Five Feet broad, and Two high; then we passed through adventitious Earth B, when we came to a Second Circle at C, of Stones of Three Feet high, and Three Feet broad; after them appeared nothing but foreign Earth, till we found, at the Centre E of the Barrow, an oblong square Pit, of the Depth of One Foot and half, and Breadth Two Feet, and Length Five Feet; in the Bottom appeared a black greasy Matter or Substance, as in the last Barrow, about an Inch thick; the Pit was not covered or defended by any Stones. However, being not satisfied, we examined the uttermost Circle of Stones, and on the Inside of it we struck on a great flat Stone, about Five Feet broad, and One Foot thick, under which, when lifted up, we found Two other thin flat Stones, and under them a smaller flat Stone, which covered an Urn, [TAB. II. Fig. 3.] which also stood upon another flat Stone in a small Pit, deeper than the Circle of Stones, and carefully wedged in, as well as supported, with many small Stones round it: This Urn is made of burnt or calcined Earth, very hard, and very black in the Inside; it has Four little Ears or Handles; its Sides are not half an Inch thick; in it were Seven Quarts of burnt Bones and Ashes; we could easily distinguish the Bones, but so altered by the Fire as not to be known what Part of the Skeleton they composed: The Urn will hold Two Gallons and more; its Height is Thirteen Inches and half, Diameter at the Mouth Eight, [470] Eight, at the Middle Eleven, and at the Bottom Six and half. Before we proceed any farther, a natural Observation will occur, in what Manner the Antients (that used Cremation, and all Nations of that way of Burial) expressed their Regard for the Deceased; and this plainly appears from the Structure of the Barrows or Tumuli, particularly No III. which is not only composed of foreign Earth, but of Stones brought from so many and so different Places; for, in erecting these Tumuli, the greater the Charge or Trouble, the greater must be the Respect due to their Princes or Generals. Thus each Soldier or Friend might bring some of the Earth or Stones from distant Places, where they lived, or were stationed, to compose the Tumulus, which generally was in proportion to the Greatness, Rank, or Power of the Deceased. Many Passages might be repeated from Authors of different Nations; but a few will not be tedious: Thus Horace, [Lib. I. Ode 28. Carm.] Quanquam festinas, non est mora longa; licebit Injecto ter pulvere curras. Thus, again, we find Achilles, in Homer, complaining, how small a Tumulus he had made for his beloved Patroclus, [Iliad. ~. V. 245.] ~ ~ That these Tumuli were erected by pouring on Earth, or heaping up Stones, is plain from the Words so frequent in Homer, [Homer, Iliad. ~. V. 257.] ~, ~ ~ ~; and ~ ~, in the Anthol. 2 [471] Anthol. Epigr. Again, that they were composed of Stones, appears from the Words, ~ ~' ~ in Euripides, and sometimes polished, ~ ~, ~ ~, from the same Author. Parallel to this, Mr. Rowland's Observation appears, who found a curious Urn in a Carnedd, or Heap of Stones, in Anglesey [Mona Rest. pag. 49.]. So the Britains had the same Custom of throwing Stones on the Deceased: Hence comes the Welsh Proverb, Karn ar dy Ben, I'll betide Thee. So, again, Pillars of Stones were erected as Sepulchral Monuments, near the Ways, or in Memory of some Battle or Victory, as well as for Places of Religion and Sacrifices. I need not quote the Eastern Authors so well known; only observe, that they are frequent in Cornwall and Wales, were called Meini Gwyr, a Stone for Play, perhaps in Memory of Funeral Games, and sometimes Llech, i. e. Tabula Saxea: The following is a remarkable one. A S T O N E P I L L A R. This large Stone is called by the Natives Long Stone, [TAB. I. No VI.] and stands upright on the Summit of the Downs, between the Highways after they are divided: The End fixed in the Earth has been examined above Eight Foot deep, but not discovered how much lower it lies; above the Surface of the Earth the Stone measures Thirteen Feet in Height, Three Feet in Breadth, and Two Feet and half in Thickness. An [472] An E N C A M P M E N T. An Encampment, about a Mile and half distant, shews itself [TAB. I. No XIII.]: It lies near the Cliffs, and overlooks Par, or St. Auslle-Bay, by its high Situation: The Form is a true Circle, about an hundred Yards Diameter; the Agger, or Rampart, is very low; the Ditch is about Two Yards deep, and Five broad, imperfect towards the Sea, where the Ground has a great Declivity, and the Ascent to the Agger more difficult: It is called Castle Gotha [TAB. II. Fig. 4.]. However, to prevent the Influence which a false Interpretation might produce, we must observe, that Gothys, both in Welsh and Cornish, signifies High, or Proud; so that from Kastelh, or Castellyn Gothys, easily flows Castle Gotha, in the modern Dialect, as its Situation declares. I have annexed a Map of Par Bay, [TAB. I.] (as copied from Mr. Mitchel, by a good Hand of our Dock) and of the Country, with the Barrows, Stone Pillar, &c. that this Essay may be rendered more intelligible. I have also been more nice in examining the internal Structure of these Barrows, as will appear by the Section and Ichnography of them. Because the best Authors have been contented with an external View of these Tumuli, but never penetrated the inmost Recesses, nor have we left any certain Characteristic to distinguish one Nation from another, I wish my Endeavours may give any new Light into this Affair. It will be tedious and needless to enumerate what Nations burnt their Dead, and erected Tumuli over them; we must only remember, that it was the Custom among most Eastern Nations, and continued with [473] with them, after their Descendents had peopled the most Western and Northern Parts of Europe: Hence it is easily traced in Greece, Latium, Iberia, Gallia, and Britannia, as well as Germany, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, till Christianity appeared, and abolished it. Let us next consider what Nation or People inhabited, or were acquainted with, the most Western Part of Britain. C E L T AE. That the Celtae and Britains inhabited here, need not be proved; though, perhaps, I may hereafter trace their Relics or Remains of Druidism in Carneds, Cromleches, Meini Gwyrs, Fortifications, and the like. P H O E N I C I A N S and G R E C I A N S. That the Phaenicians first, and after them the Grecians, knew these Islands, and traded here for Tin, long before the Romans Knowledge of them, is plain, and easily proved by Grecian and Roman Authors, as Strabo, Polybius, Pliny, &c. Polybius wrote a Book, ~ ~ ~ ~, ~ ~ ~ ~. Which Book, though now lost, yet Strabo witnesseth, that therein he refuted the Errors of Dicaearchus, Pythias, and Eratosthenes, concerning the Magnitude of Britain, Authors much older than himself. And though Disputes may arise, whether the Bratanac of the Phaenicians gave Name to these Islands, yet it is certain, that the Greeks knew them under the Title of Cassiterides, the Tin-Islands. But whether these NAtions were ever settled here as Inhabitants, and became Bodies Politic, to erect P p p For[474] Fortifications, Towns, Cities, Encampments, and the like, is without any Certainty. Indeed a learned, and no less laborious Author, [Sammes's Britan.] has endeavoured to derive the Names of Places, Customs, Religion, Art of War, Language and Government of the antient Britains from the Phaenicians being settled here; and this only upon a supposed Affinity between some British and Phaenician Words, and their Trade for Tin: But by the same way of Reasoning, we might as well and easily prove, that the Phaenicians received these very Words from the Descendents of Gomer, the Celtae, before they passed over the Hellespont; and also that the British or Celtic Words, which occur in the Grecian and Roman Languages, are derived and owe their Origin to the same People as they journeyed Westwards, and sent Colonies to different Parts to inhabit them, particularly the most South; the Northern Parts being peopled by the Descendents of Askenez, Gomer's Son: Hence the Teutonic Language flows, though not without some Affinity to the Celtic in few Words. R O M A N S. That the Romans conquered great Part of Britain, is not disputed; but whether they possessed the most Western Part, now Cornwall, many Learned doubt. Let us enumerate the chief Arguments and Proofs for it: The Geography and Figure of Britain is delivered in various Grecian and Roman Authors, and the most Western Part is not forgot. Caesar, the first Roman Invader, mentions the triangular Form of the Island, [Comment. Lib. v.] Insula est triquetra; [475] quetra; unum latus est contra Galliam, alterum vergit ad Hispaniam & solem occidentem, qua ex parte est Hibernia; tertium est contra septentrionem. But, out of a great many, let us hear Ptolemy Geograp. Lib. II. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Which may be thus translated: `` After the Po`` sition of the British Island, let us survey the `` Western Side, which lies along the Irish and Ver`` givian Seas, where lie the Promontory of Her`` cules, the Promontory Antivestaum, sometimes Bo`` lerium, the Promontory Damnonium, called also `` Ocrinum; and in the Side towards the South, and `` bounded by the British Ocean, after the Promon`` tory Ocrinum, the Rivers Cenion, Tamar, and Isaca, `` discover themselves, by discharging themselves into `` the Sea.'' The Coast and Rivers being mentioned, next described are the Cities. `` The most Westward `` after the Durotriges, arc the Damnonii, among `` whom are these Cities ~; Voliba, Uxela, `` Tamare and Isca, with the Legio Secunda Au`` gusta.'' Ptolemy of Alexandria, under the Reigns of Trajan, Hadrian, and Antoninus Pius, wrote his Geography. In the Iter Britan. Antonini, Itiner. XII & XV. supposed to be composed or P p p 2 begun [476] begun in the Times of Antoninus Pius or Caracalla, Mention is made of Dumovaria, Moriduno, * Scadum Nunniorum, Leucaro, Bomio, and Nido, Iter XII. and in Iter XV. of Dumovaria, Moriduno, Isca Dumnoniorum. That by these last-mentioned Names are meant Dorchester, Seaton, and Exeter, is generally allowed; though whether Leucaro, Bomio, and Nido, are to be traced in Damnonium, may admit of a future Inquiry. The Notitia Romana, supposed to be written at the End of Theodosius the younger, is indeed silent in respect to the most Western Part of Britain, then called Flavia Caesariensis Britannia, but seems principally to regard the Eastern and Northern Coast, the Littus Saxonicum; the Roman Soldiers being then withdrawn to these Parts, to defend the Island against the Invasions of the Saxons, and Inroads of the Picts. In the Chorographia Britanniae Ravennatis, supposed to be compiled by Gallio, the last Roman here with any Command or Forces, we have this Preface: In Britannia plurimas fuisse legimus Civitates & Castra, ex quibus aliquantas designare volumus, Tamaris, Uxelis, Scadum Namorum, juxta quam civitatem est Moriduno: Allowed by all Commentators to be Tamerton, Lestwithiel, Exeter, and Seaton. Again: Currunt autem per ipsam Britanniam Flumina plurima, ex quibus aliquanta nominare volumus, i e. Tamaris, Tamer, Isca Ex, Tamion Tavy, Leuca Low, Dorvatium Dart, Antrum Arm, Vividin Foy or Foath of the Britains. Most Interpreters allow the English Names agreeably translated to the Latin. * Which is only a false reading for Isca Dumnunniorum. C. M. 5 In [477] In the Tabula Theodosiana or Peutingeri, supposed to be made about the Time of Theodosius the Great, occur Two Stations, Isca Dumnoniorum, Riduno, which exactly answers to Isca Dumnoniorum and Moriduno of Antoninus. More might be extracted, to prove that the Geography of Dumnonium or Danmonium, was well known to the Romans. But let us now consider, that since the Isca Dumnoniorum is said by Ptolemy to have the Legio Secunda Augusta stationed at it, and so great and exact Account is given of the Civitates (~) & Flumina, in the same Author, as well as Antoninus, Chorographia Ravennatis, and Tabulae Peutingeri, can we suppose, that the Romans could be ignorant of the Tin the Product of Danmonium, so often mentioned in the Grecian Authors? and since that their own Name of Dunmonium * was by themselves changed from the British, Dun Mwyn, a Hill, or Country of Metals; agreeable to which Etymology we have at this Day a Place abounding in Metals, called Mwyn, as St. Mwyn Parish, within Two Miles of the above-described Barrows. Besides, it must be contrary to Reason, and the Roman Genius, [Vita Agric. Sect. 12.] (Nobis nec deest Avaritia, says Tacitus, their own Countryman) to imagine, that the Romans, called Raptores orbis, (by the same Author) should neglect to hunt after the Metals of Tin and Lead, which were valued as the Rewards of Victory. Tacitus has a beautiful Passage to this Purpose, [ib. Sect. 12.] Fert Britannia Aurum & Argentum, & alia Metalla, pretium Victoriae. Again: I hope it will not be tedious to make some Extracts out of Galgacus's Speech to his Army, going to * Rather Dunmunium q. s. Dun mwyn ium. C. M. en[478] encounter the Roman Eagle, and when the Roman Fleet had surrounded and created Terror to Caledonia: Nullae ultra Terrae, ac ne mare quidem securum imminente classe Romana.-Nunc terminus patet: Romani, Raptores Orbis, avari, & ambitiosi, quos non Oriens, non Occidens satiaverit, bona fortunasque in tributa egerunt; in annonam frumenta, corpora nostra ac manus sylvis & paludibus emuniendis verbera inter & contumelias conterunt;neque sunt nobis Arva, aut Metalla, aut Portus, quibus exercendis reservemur:hic Dux, & exercitus ibi, tributa, & metalla, & caeterae servientium paenae. Perhaps the Curious have not sufficiently remarked this beautiful Speech of Galgacus, where he so pathetically lays before them the Loss of their Support, the Metals, for which the Romans so eagerly fought, and hazarded their Lives, as the expected Reward. He likewise relates the Fear created by the Appearance of the Roman Fleet on their Coasts. If we reflect again, that the Roman Fleet not only sailed round Caledonia, but also the Dunmonium, when the Roman Ships went to attack the Silures in Wales; and that the Name Dun Mwyn, must declare the Product of the Country, as Authors did likewise; and that the Second Legion was stationed at Exeter the Capital City; could the Romans in an unusual Manner sit idle, and forget their darling Metals, and not penetrate the most secret Places? It will be a Digression, but I hope not an impertinent one, to confute a vulgar Error, that the Roman Soldiers made the Highways in Britain; when it is plain, that the poor conquered Britains under them, as Masters and Overseers, & inter verbera & con[479] contumelias, causwayed the Bogs, and pared Woods; Paludibus & Sylvis emuniendis, are Tacitus's Words: This was the unhappy State of our conquered Ancestors the Britains. Much more might be said from the Metals: Let us take a Remark from the Language, and this is one of the Learned Mr. Edward Llwyd's, who says, [Archaeol. Brit. p. 32.] that the Dunmonian and other Southern Britains, being, on account of their Situation, earlier conquered by, and consequently more conversant with the Romans, than we of Wales, it is not to be wondered, if several Latin Words occur in the Cornish Dialect not owned by the Welsh, as Cornish Splender, Latin Splendor, Welsh Eglyrder, Cornish Glitis, Latin Glacies, Welsh Ja, Cornish Bovin, Latin Bovina, Welsh Kigeidon, &c. If we trace the Romans by their Remains, as Castles, Camps, Coins, Amphitheatres, we may probably be very lucky. Thus we observe Three circular Camps or Fortifications within a Mile and half of Grampound, the Voluba, which lies in the Centre of them. They have a single Agger, and a Ditch: In the Rampart of one of them was found an Urn some Years since, but broken by the Workmen: Another Castle Dennis, where there is a triple Rampart and Ditches, which has a Causway leading to it peculiar to the Romans; and I am informed of an Amphitheatre at Torran in Zabulo: But I shall not dwell longer, at present, on this Subject; but mention a very weighty Argument from Coins found in the most Western Part of Dunmonium. The First were found in Manacon Parish near Helford River, and not many Miles from the Ocrinum Dunmoniorum, Li[480] Lizard-Point. I have had the Sight but of Three, which are Copper, and of a small Size, very fair and legible: I had them from a Friend at Falmouth. 1. Constantinus jun. Nob. Reverse Corona Civica. 2. Constantius..... Provident Caes. 3. Constantius Nob..... Gloria Exercitus. On the other Side of Helford River in the Parish of Constantine, last Year, a labouring Man at Plough turned up about Forty, or more: I have seen about Thirty of them, Six of which are Silver, and the others Copper. The Silver ones are very fair and beautiful, and about the Bigness of a Farthing, or the Roman Denarius, and are these: Silver. Reverse. 1. Imp. Caesar Vesp. Aug... Pontif. Maxim. 2. Hadrianus Aug..... Cos. III. 3. Divus Antoninus..... Divo Pio. P. M. TR. P. 4. Imp. Caes. Nerva Trajan. Aug. Cos. III. P. P. .. ugus.. other 5. Diva Faustina..... Letters defaced. 6. Imp. M. Jul. Philippus Aug. Annona Aug. Copper. Six in Number, the Size larger than a Halfpeny, and near the Weight of the Roman As of half an Ounce, scarce legible. 1. Imp. Caesar Domit. Aug. .. Augusti. Germ. Cos. XIII. 2. Antoninus Aug........... 3. Nerva Trajan. Aug......... The Reverse not legible, except one Word Augusti. Three more of the same Size, intirely defaced. Copper [481] Copper Coins. Five in Number, about the Bigness of a Farthing. 1. Constantius Jun. Nob. Reverse Fel. Temp. 2. Constantius............ 3. Seems to be a Head ~ the Labarum, I take, of Constantine. of Constantine. The other Two defaced. Twelve in Number, less in Size than a Farthing, or Triens or Quadrans of the Roman As, of which 4 Constantinus...... Gloria Exercitus. 2 Constantinus Aug.... Votis x. 1 Constantinus....... Roma. 1 Constantinus Jun. Nob.. Providentia Caes. 1.... Aug.... Oriens Aug. Three others not intelligble. These Coins are in the Custody of my Friend Dr. Russel of Truro. If I had Leisure, perhaps I might have been nice in discovering the Faces and Reverses: This Gentleman informs me, that near the Place where the Coins were found, is a circular Camp near Helford Harbour. D A N E S. I could have longer dwelt on this Subject, but have been tedious already: However, must not forget the Danes, who certainly landled here in Cornwall, but by Invitation from the Britains, to assist them to overcome the Saxons, and probably never had any Settlement here: They, as Friends, did not want Fortifications for their Defence in Cornwall, since they went as far as Exeter with the Britains against the Saxons, who could never penetrate Cornwall till the Ninth Century, when, by one fatal Battle, the Britains were obliged to become Tributaries. This Q q q Battle [482] Battle was fought near Lanelford. Several Places, I am satisfied, supposed to be Danish by the Names, never did belong to them. Thus, to instance in One, Carlle Dennis, which is certainly a British and Cornish Name; Kastelh Ennys, or Castellyn Enny, signifies a Castle on an Island, or in the Form of one either moated or trenched round, and here are Three Trenches. Again; Pendennis might, for the same Reason, be reckoned Danish, when Pedn, or Pen Ennys, in Cornish, signifies the Head of an Island, or a Peninsula. I have endeavoured to trace all the Nations, which could be supposed to have known Cornwall; and must leave it at present to Gentlemen more learned, to conjecture and discover what Nation erected these Tumuli. My Efforts have been to prove myself as worthy a Member as I can, and to thank the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y for the Honour done to me at my Election. If these Papers meet with a favourable Reception, it may encourage to proceed farther about the Antiquities in this Country. S. Williams. References to T A B. I. No I, II, III, IV. The Barrows on the Down, which were opened: In the last was found the Urn. V. A Barrow, whose Position respects a larger Number, as No IV. does the others lying Eastward of it. VI. Long Stone. VII. St. Aussle. VIII. The [483] VIII. The Road to Grampound, after its Division near the Barrows, IX. and near Grampound it meets the other Branch (VIII) again. N. B. There is not any other convenient Road between Uxella, Lestwithiol and Voluba, Grampound. X. Road to Uxella, or Lestwithiol. XI. Road to Foy, or Vividin. XII. A Brook of Water. XIII. Castle Gotha. XIV. Hills. TAB. II. Fig. 1. The Section and Ichnography of Barrow, No III. A. The Circumference of the Barrow. B. A small Circle of Stones. C. The Body of Stones, which lay over the cylindrical Pit. D. The cylindrical Pit. E. The Earth of the Barrow. F. The Passage cut by the Workmen. The Diameter of the Barrow was 46 Feet. The perpendicular Height 101/2 Feet. Fig. 2. The Section and Ichnography of Barrow, No IV. A. The First Circle of Stones. B. Earth. C. The Second Circle of Stones. D. Earth. E. The Centre. F. The oblong Pit. Q q q 2 G. The [484] G. The Passage cut by the Workmen. H. The Place where the Urn was found. Fig. 3. The Urn. Its Height was 13 1/2 Inches. Diameter at the Mouth 8 Inches. at the Middle 11. at the Bottom 6 1/2. Fig. 4. The Plan of Castle Gotha. A. The Diameter of the Camp, 100 Yards. B. The Rampart [Agger.] C. The Ditch, Five Yards deep, and Two Yards broad, which reaches no farther than D D. where there is a falling away of the Ground towards the Sea. 