(1244) V. Part of two Letters from Mr Henry Vaughan to~ the Publisher, containing some uncommon Observations made upon the Dissection of some Morbid Bodies. A Gentleman about a month before Christmas eat some common Prunes, about two pound, or more, and about a month or five weeks ago, he eat about a pound more: About a fortnight before he dyed I found, according to his complaint, that he had some symptoms of the Stone. He had a violent pain in the neck of his Vesica, and about the Urethra, with obstructions in his Urine, &c. I ordered him a Terebinthinate Clyster, which gave him ease; but seeing his pains increased, I advised him to a Physician: He made use of one of his acquaintance, he likewise prescribed Clysters, with Diureticks and Narcoticks,to no purpose. Upon his death, I obtained leave of his Relations to Dissect him; accordingly I did with the help of a Surgeon, Dr West being present, with several others of the deceas'd Patient's friends. I found upon the Dissection the Prune-stones passed into the Intestinum rectum, and had there made a perforation, or rupture into the Pelvis. We tyed one part of the Gut, and cut out apiece, and emptied it: There was taken out 128 Prune-stones in number, besides what we left behind instercore, in the other part of the Intestinum Rectum. There was likewise a large Polypus taken out of the Left Ventricle of the Heart, &c. Lon(1245) London, June 11. <inferred>1703</inferred>. S I R, YOur kind reception of the last, encourageth me to give you a further account of a Youth in your Neighbourhood, who I attended about 30 hours; his Case was the Iliaca passio, very terrible for the time; he was aged about 14 years,of a Sanguine Constitution.About 3 or 4 hours before he dyed I administred a Terebinthinat Clyster, which gave, during its stay, immediate ease; he so continued about an hour, then his Disease returned again as severe as ever: He soon after dyed: but before, some time he voided some of his Clyster by Vomit. The Case being not very usual, I applyed my self to his Friends, in order to Dissect him; which accordingly I did the next day. Finding the Liver only something larger than ordinary, I immediately made search from the Ventriculus quite to the lower end of the Intestinum rectum: The Ventricle was considerably extended, a little space from the Gut Ileon, in the Jejunum, I found the excrements had made a breach, and some-quantity was evacuated. I then proceeded to the Gut Ileum, I found a considerable part of it very livid, not in the least extended; the Colon was much like a Contused Wound about 3 or 4 days old. I inspected into the center of it, where I found it something fresher, not so livid as the outside. About the beginning of the Intestinum rectum I found another large ruption, where there was more excrements voided. There was some other small matters to be seen, not worth while for me to mention to you. However, Sir, this being matter of fact, as a great many of his Relations can testisie,they being present,I thought fit to acquaint you with it. About 18 months ago I dissected a poor <inferred>Emac</inferred> (1246) Emaciated Creature, that dyed of a Hydrops, out of whom I took about 10 Gallons of Liquor measured: and about a month ago a Child which had an Involution of the Intestines; which, I believe, the Vulgar means, and calls the Twisting of the Guts. Printed for Sam. Smith and Benj, Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Princes Arms in St Pauls Churchyard, 1702. 