483 i -T R E:S E At T -S RECEIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, From November 1821 to July 1822. WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS. X 21. ?ItPRESENTS. DONORS. Nov. 8. The Statutes of the Realm, printed by Command The Commissioners of of H. M. King George the III. in pursuance Public Records. of an Address of the House of Commons of Great Britain. Vol. Viii. 1821. FO The Asiatic Researches, or Transactions of the The Asiatic Society. Society instituted in Bengal, for inquiring into the History and Antiquities, the Arts, Sciences, ;and Literature, of Asia. Vol. XIII. Calcutta, I S2zo. 40 A Dictionary of the Chinese Language. Vol. I. The Court of Directors Part 4, by R. Morrison, D.D. Macao, o820. 40 of the Honourable East India Company. Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences The Imperial Academy de St. Petersbourg. Vols. V. VI. and VII. St. of St. Petersburgh. Petersburgh, I81, i181-8, 18o20. 4? The Universal Cambist and Commercial InDr. P. Kelly. structor, being a full and accurate Treatise on the Exchanges, Monies, Weights and Measures of all trading Nations and their Colonies, with an Account of their Banks, Public Funds, and Paper Currencies, by P. Kelly, LL. D. Zd Edition. London, i8zi. z Vols. 40 An Account of the means which have been taken John Knowles, Esq. to preserve the British Navy, from the earliest period to the present time, particularly from that species of Decay now denominated Dry Rot, by John Knowles. London, 182z. 40 Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and The American ' Acar Sciences. Vol. IV. Part 2. Cambridge, i821. 4 demy' of Arts and Sciences. Memoire sur la Distribution de la Chaleur dans M."Poisson. les Corps solides. 4? [ 484 ] 182X. PRUESNTS. DONORS. Nov. 8. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, published by The Medical and Chithe Medical and Chirurgical Society of Lonrurgical Society of don. Vol. XI. part 2. London, O8mi. 80 London. The Principles and Doctrine of Assurances, AnWilliam Morgan, Esq. nuities on Lives, and Contingent Reversions, stated and explained, by William Morgan, F.R.S. London, i82i. 80 A Compendious Treatise on the Theory and SoRev. B. Bridge. lution of Cubic and Biquadratic Equations, and of Equations of the higher order, by the Rev. B. Bridge, B. D. F. R. S. London, i 8z I. 80 The proximate Causes of material Phxnomena, Sir Richard Phillips. and the true Principles of universal Causation considered and illustrated, by Sir Richard Phillips. London, 182 1. 120 A Collection of Tracts. 8o Dr. Andrew Duncan. The Nautical Almanac, and Astronomical EpheThe Commissioners of meris for the year 1824. Longitude. The Works of Confucius, in Chinese. 5 Parts. 8? Mr. William Huttman. Voyages dans la Grande Bretagne entrepris reM. Dupin. lativement aux Services publics de la Guerre et de la Marine,et des Pouts et Chaussees, en I 8 i61819, par Ch. Dupin. Paris, i820. 4 Vols. 40 15, Flora Batava. No.g H. M.NThe Kingofsthe Netherlands. The Modern Church, a Satirical Poem, comprisJohn Laurens Bicknell, ing Sketches of some popular and unpopular Esq. Preachers, by John Laurens Bicknell, F. A. S. London, i82o. 80 22. Vetus Testamentum Grxcum a Codice MS. The Trustees of the Alexandrino qui Londini in Bibliotheca Musei British Museum. Britannici asservatur Typis ad similitudinem ipsius Codicis Scriptura fideliter descriptum cura et labore H. H. Baber, A. M. Vol. i. London, I816. F0 A Natural History of the Crinoeidea or LillyMr. J. S. Miller. shaped Animals, with Observations on the Genera Asteria, Euryale, Comatula and Marsupites, by J. S. Miller. Bristol, i8zi. 40 An Account of the Animals seen by the late CaptainEdwardSabine Northern Expedition, whilst within the Arctic Circle, by Captain Edward Sabine, R. A. London, i8zi. 40 Raguwglio del Reale Osservatorio di Napoli eretto M. Piazzi. sulla Collina di Capodimonte 40 Ephemeris of the Distances of the four Planets, Professor Schumacker. Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, from the Moon's Centre, for 1822, to which is annexed, Tables for finding the Latitude of the Polar Star for I 8 zii8 zzby H. C. Schumacker. Copenhagen, August, I8zo. At Astronomische Hilfstafeln fur iSzi, von H. C. Schumacker. Copenhagen. 80 4 85 1821. PRESENTS. DONORS. Yov. 27. An additional Plate and Sheet to the History of Edmund Turuor, Esq. the Soke of Grantham. Dec. 6. Transactions of the Geological Society, Vol. V. The Geological Society, Part 2. London, 1821. 4i Annales des Mines ou Recueil des Memoires sur Le Conseil General des I'Exploitation des Mines et sur les Sciences qui Mines. s'y rapportent, redigres par le Conseil General des Mines. No. z and 3 for i8zi. Of Population. An Inquiry concerning the Power William Godwin, Esq. of Increase in the Numbers of Mankind, being an Answer to Mr. Malthus' Treatise on that Subject, by W. Godwin. London, i8zo. 80 The Introductory Lecture of a Course upon State John Elliotson, M. D. Medicine, by John Elliotson, M. D. London, s8zi. 80 Lezioni Elementari di Cosmografia, di Geografia, M. J. Gratberg di Hemso. e di Statica di Jacopo Graberg di Hemso. Genoa, 1819, 8t. Lettera del Sig Graiberg di Hemso all' Illus. Sig. L. Gropi sulla Peste di Tangeri negli anni I 8 I 819. Genoa, i8zo. 83 X'822. Jan. Io. Histoire Naturelle et Medicale des Casses, et Dr. Colladon. particulierement de la Casse et des Senes employes en Medecine par L. T. F. Colladon, M. D. Montpellier, X 8 I 6. 4? Narrative of a Descent in the Diving Bell, by Dr. Louis Theodore Frederick Colladon. 80 Introduction to a synoptical Table of English Mr. Goodwyn. and French Lineal Measures. 40 Astronomical Tables and Remarks for the Year Francis Baily, Esq. i8z2z, by Francis Baily, F. R. S. London, 1822. 80 Meteorological Journal kept on board the Marine The Committee of GoSociety's Ship in the Year 1821. vernors of the Marine Society. Poesias Lyricas de Francisco de Borja Gar~ao M. F. B. G. Stockler. Stockler. Londres, 182 I. 80 Observations et Reflexions concernant la Polarite M. Henri de Schuzler. de la Chaleur. 40 17. A Collection of Examples of the Application of the Mr. Peacock. Differential and Integral Calculus, by George Peacock. Cambridge, I8zo. 80 A Collection of the Examples of the Applications J. F. W. Herschel, Esq. of the Calculus of Finite Differences, by J. F. W. Herschel. Cambridge, I8zo. 80 2z+. Memoir of the late Captain Joseph Huddart, Sir Joseph Huddart. F.R.S. London, i8zi. 40 Chart of the Southern part of the China Sea. And James Horsburgh, Es9. Chart of the Straits and Islands at the Southwest part of the China Sea. 31. Calendarium Inquisitionum post Mortem sive The Commissioners of Escaxtarum. Vol. III. Temp. Ric. 2 et Hen. 4, Public Records. 8S:,. FO 486 I82zz P RESEN TS. DONORS. Jan. 3 I Valor Ecclesiasticus Temp. Henr. VIII. AuctoriThe Commissioners of tate Regia institutus. Vol. IV. 18z i. F0 Public Records. An Introductory Discourse delivered to the Leeds C. T. Thackrah, Esq. Philosophical and Literary Society, April 6, 18zi, by Charles Turner Thackrah. Leeds. 40 Transactions of the Society Instituted at London The Society of Arts. for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Vol. XXXIX. London,i 8I. i8 1 Feb. 7. Memoire sur la Combinaison de l'Oxigene avec M. Thenard. lPEau et sur les Proprietes extraordinaires que possede lEau oxigen&e, par M. Thenard. 40 Observations sur la Physiologie V6g6tale et sur M. Feburier. la Systerme physiologique de M. Aubert du Petit Thouars, par M. Feburier . 8 Rapport sur les Moyens proposes jusqu'a ce jour pour preserver les Bles de la Carie, par M. Feburier. So The Chemical Catechism, with Tables, Notes, Samuel Parkes, Esq. Illustrations, and Experiments, by Samuel Parkes. London, I82z. 80 21. Memoirs of the Board of Agriculture of the State Dr. David Hosac. of New York. Vol. I. Albany, I Xi. 80 Narrative Journal of Travels through the Northwest Regions of the United States, extending from Detroit through the great Chain of American Lakes to the Sources of the Missisippi River, performed as a Member of the Expedition under Governor Cass in the year i 8zo,by Henry R. Schoolcraft. Albany, i82 I, $5 Observations Physico-Chimiques sur les Alliages M. G. S. Serullas. du Potassium et du Sodium avec d'autres Metaux, Proprietes de ces Alliages, &c. par G. S. Serullas. Metz. 1820. 8 Memorie della Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Royal Academy of SciTorino. Tomo 24. Turin, 1820. 40 ences of Turin. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of LonThe Horticultural Sodon. Vol. IV. Part 4. ciety. An humble Memorial of King George IIl. at The Right Honourable Longford Castle, Wilts, (an Engraving). The Earl of Radnor. farc/i 7. Federa, Conventiones, Litterx, et cujuscunque The Commissioners of Acta publica inter Reges Anglie et alios quosPublic Records. vis Imperatores, Reges, Pontifices, Principes vel Communitates, ab ingressu Gulielmi Pri. in Angliam A. D. 1066 ad nostra usque tempora habita aut tractata. Vol. II. Part 2. London, I82 I. F0 14. Esquisse du Regne Vegetale ou Tableau caracteM. Marquis. ristique des Familles des Plantes, par A. L. Marquis. Rouen, I820. 80 Fragmens de Philosophie Botanique ou de Ia Maniere la plus convenable de voir et de travailler en histoire naturelle et particulierement en Botanique, et des .Moyens de rendre cette Science plus simple et plus facile, par A. L. Marquis. I82I. 5o I 8zz. P PRESENTS. DONORS* March 14. Recherches et Observations sur les Effets des PreM. J. A. Chrestien. parations d'Or du Dr. Chrestien, par J. G. Niel, Paris, i82i so On a new Compound Gas resulting from Animal Dr. A. B. Granville. decomposition taking place in the living Body, with some general remarks on Tympanitis. 18z2. 8? 2 i, Histoire de lPAstronomie Moderne, par M. DeM. Delambre. lambre. Paris, 8:2i. 2 Vols. 40 Flora Batava. No. 6o. 4 H H. M. The King of the Netherlands. Tracts on Vaults and Bridges. London, 8z2. 8? Mr. Samuel Ware. Memoirs of the Astronomical Society of London, The Astronomical SoVol. I. London, 1822. 4.o ciety. A New Method of Solving Equations with Ease M. T. Holdred. and Expedition, by Theophilus Holdred. London, i 8zo. 40 April iS. Die Phosphorescenz der Kbrper oder die im DunM. P. Heinrich. keln bemerkbaren Lichtphanomene der anorganischen Natur-durch eine Rieke einiger Beobachtungen und Versuche geprift und bestimmt von Placidus Heinrich. 4 part. Nuremberg, 182o. A Complete Course of practical Geometry, inLieut. Col. C. W. Pasley. cluding Conic Sections, and Drawing, treated on a principle of peculiar perspicuity, by C. W. Pasley, Royal Engineers. London, i822. 8? The Use of the Blow-pipe in Chemical Analysis, J. G. Children, Esq. and in the Examination of Minerals, by J. J. Berzelius, translated from the French of M. Fresnel, by J. G. Children. London, 82zz. So Annales des Mines. Part 4, for 8Z I. 8? Le Conseil des Mines. 25. COn the Places Of 145 new double Stars, by Sir W. Sir William Herschel. Herschel. 4May z. The Hunterian Oration in Honour of Surgery, Sir Everard Home, Bart. and in Memory of those Members by whose Labours it's celebrity has been advanced; instituted by the Executors of John Hunter; delivered in the Theatre of the College, February 14,1822. London, 1822. 40 g. Beitrage zur chorographischen Kenntniss des M. G. F. W. Meyer. Flussarbeits der innerste in der Furstenthumern Grubenhagen und Hildesheim, mit besonderer Rucksicht auf die Veranderungen die durch diesen Strom in der Beschaffenheit des Bodens und in der Vegetations bewerkt worden sind. Eine Erlst AnIage zur Flora des Konigreichs Hannover, von G. F. W. Meyer. Gottingen, 1822. z Vo1S. Remarks on the present defective State of the Francis Baily, Esq. Nautical Almanac, by Francis Baily. London, i8zI. 80 L 488 1 1822. PRESENTS.DONORS, May I6. Memoirs of the Imperial Academy of St. PetersThe Imperial Academy burgh. Vols. I. II. III. and IV. In the Russian of St. Petersburgh. Language. 3 Vols. 80. Practical Observations on the Nautical Almanac James South, Esq. and Astronomical Ephemeris, by James South, Esq. F. R. S. London, i82z. 8 23. Statutes of the Realm. Vol. IX. 1822. Fo The Commissioners of Public Records. Supplement to the IVth Volume of the TransThe Horticultural Soactions of the Horticultural Society. London, ciety. i 82z. 4? Reasons why the Bank of England ought not to The Author. reduce the Rate of Discount to 4 per cent., by an Impartial Observer. znd Edition, London, I872. 85 Exposition of the Real Causes and Effective Remedies of the Agricultural Distress, by an Impartial Looker-on. London, i8zz. 8o The Agricultural Case and Cash Payments briefly considered in a Letter from the Continent to a Friend in England. London, 822. 80 A New Theory of the Tides, shewingwhat is the imCaptain Forman. mediate Cause of the Phenomenon, and which has hitherto been overlooked by Philosophers, by Captain Forman, R. N. London, i8zz. 8" June 6. Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, by the late The African AssociaJohn Lewis Burckhardt, published by the Astion. sociation for promoting the Discovery of the Interior Parts of Africa. London, 18z2. 4P Outlines of the Geology of England and Wales, The Rev. W. D. Conywith an Introductory Compendium of the gebeare, and William neral Principles of that Science, and comparaPhillips, Esq. tive View of the Structure of foreign Countries, by the Rev. W. D. Conybeare and William Phillips. Part i. London, i8zz. 8" Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical SoThe Cambridge Philociety. Vol. I. Part x. 4? sophical Society. Discours sur la Lecture fondamentale des LanM. Goulianoff. gues, par le Conseiller de Cour Goulianoff. Paris, i8zz. I g8 Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe The Trustees under the Observatory, Oxford, from the ist May, I82i, will of the late Dr. to the 1st May, i822. (MS.) Radcliffe. Wellington, Poemetto del Marchese Antonio Solari The Marchioness Solari. Veneziano;-and Wellington proved to be the greatest Warrior of Ancient and Modern Times, by Catherine Hyde Solari. London. 8? 13. Sermons, practical and occasional, Dissertations, Rev. Francis WrangTranslations,including new Versions of Virgil's ham. Bucolica, and of Milton's Defensio Secunda, Seaton Poems, &c. &c. by the Rev. Francis Wrangham. London, i8i6. ; Vols. 5" IS 22. PRESENTS. DONO0S. Jne i. Ristretto di Fatti acaustici di Giovanni Dali Arm' M. G. Di' Arm' letto in Accademia de' Lincei, Roma i8zi. Edizioni litografica autografa. Fo. con Appendice letto gia col Corredo degli Experinmenti all'A ccademia de' Lincei di Roma, ne' giorni .z' September e 4. Ottobre, 8z i. Roma, Gennajo, 18:zz. zo. Observationes Medicm ad Heberdeni CommenDr. Richard Burney, tarios accommodate a Richardo Burney, A. B. Cambridge, 18Szz. 80 Carte de la Grece Moderne dresse' sur les MeM. Barbie du Bocage. moires de M. Pouqueville et d'autres Voyagrurs, et appuyee sur les Observations de plusieurs Navigateurs, par J. B. Barbie du Bocage, 182z. 1 sheet. 27. Star Tables, No. z for the year 1823, by Thomas Mr. T. Lynn. Lynn, of the Honourable E. I. Company's Service, 1 8z2. 89 Solar Tables for Working the Lonoiitude by Chronometer, or for finding the Latitude by double Altitudes of the Sun or Stars. London, 1822. 80 July 4. Memoire sur la Gelatine, par A. Michelot. Paris, M. Michelot. i82z. 80 Testimonials presented to the Trustees of the William Swainson, Esq, British Museum in behalf of William Swainson. The Naturalist's Guide for Collecting and Pre'tserving subjects of Natural History and Botany, both in temperate and tropical countries particularly Shells. London, i 82Z. , 0 Message from the President of the United States, I . the A wer ir. transmitting a Report of W. Lambert, on the Ambassador. Subject of the Longitude of the Capital of the United States. Washington, x87z. 8? Periodical Publications. A Journal of Science, Literature, and the Arts. The Managers of the No. 23, to No. 26. 860 R Doyal In titut' Annals of Philosophy. New Series. No. 8 to 19. 8 Richard PLAhlips, Esq. The Philosophical lMagazine. No. 279 to 29o. 80 Dr. Alexander Tiloch.. The Monthly Review enlarged, from July 1 8z ito MrG.. Cfth Jane, 182z, with Appendices to Vols. XCV. XCVI. and XCVII. The European Magazine, from July, 82 1, to The Proprietors. June, i8z2. 80 The Monthly Censor, No. I for June, 18z2. Messrs. F. C. and R'vington In the List of Presents in thle Piilosophieal Transactions for p 8 .xa Page 443> For a Treatise on Heat, Flame, and Combustion, by T. H. Pasley. London, i 82o 8o Donor Lieut. Col. Pasley, read Donor Lieut. L'h H. Pasley. MDCCCXXII. 3 R INDEX TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1822. A page Aeirform matter, on the state of it in cavities found in certain crystals, 367 Ammonia, contained in sea-water, 454 Animal and vegetable substances, on the ultimate analysis of them, 457 Atmosphere, on the finite extent of it, 89 B Bakerian Lecture, An account of experiments to determine the amount of the dip of the magnetic needle in London in August 1821,Iwith remarks on the instruments which are usually employed in such determinations, I Balleye, near Wirksworth in Derbyshire, account of some bones and molar teeth of the elephant found in a cavity of mountain lime-stone there, in the year 1663, 213 BARLOW, PETER, Esq. On the anomalous magnetic action of hot iron between the white and blood-red heat, 1I17 Barometer, on the late extraordinary depression of it, 113 BELL, CHARLES, Esq. Of the nerves which associate the muscles of the chest, in the actions of breathing, speaking, and expression: being a continuation of the Paper on the structure and functions of the nerves, 284 Birds, remarkable mechanisni of their spine and spinal canal, 276 INDEX page Bitumen, in what manner it may be obtained, 332 Blankenburg, caes at, EsPE' and LEIBNITZ's account of ti ei referred to, 216 Blood, some observations on the buffy coat of the blood, 271 Bombay, of its longitude, 427 3RINKLEY, REVEREND JOHN D. I). Elements of CAPTAIN HALL s Comet, S BUCKLANrD, REVEREND WILLIAM, M. A. Account of an assenlblage of fossil teeth and bones of elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, bear, tiger, and hy ema, and sixteen other animals; discovered in a cave at Kirkdale, York.. shire, in the year 1821: with a comparative view of five similar caverns in various parts of England, and others on the continent, _ 171 C C'alctta, M rae and Bombay, their geographical situation, 408 Calcutta, its longitude, 426 CA VENDI8H HF NNtY, Esq. his observations for determining the amount of the (lip of the magnetic needle in London 'in 17 ,76 referred to, 18 av~es i8n whichfo88il bones have been discovered, an enumeration of several on the continent, 220 CHILDREN, JOHN GEORGO, Esq. On somne alvine concretions found in the colon of a young man in Lancashire after death, 24 Coomet, observations of one seen at Valparaiso, 46 Elements of CAPTAIN HALL's Comet, 50 Concretion , alvin, found 'in the colon of a young man in Lancashire after death, 24 -~ ---_chemical examination 'of them, 27 Crawley Rocks, on the coast of Glamorganshire, account of some fossil bones of the elephant, rhinoceros, &c. disco.. vered4 in a cavity of mountain limestone, at that place, 208 Croonian Lecturc On the anatomical structure of the eye, illustrated by nmicroscopical drawings executed by F. BAU ER, Esq. _ 76 Crystals, on the state of water and aeriform matter in cavities found in certain crystals, M 367 D DAVY, StRi HUMPHRYi, Bart. On the electrical phenomena exhibited in vacuo, 64 INDEX. page DAVY, SIR HUM PHiY', Bart. On the state of water and aeriform matter in cavities found 'in certain crystals, 367 DAVY, JOHN, M. D. Some observations of the buffy coat of the blood, &c. 271 ..... son-i observations on corrosive sublimate, 857 Derdham, Down, near C6hfton, account of some fossil fragments of bone discovered there, 12 Dip of the magnetic needle, an account of experiments to determine the amount of it in London, in August 1821, 1 _ ____________-different experiments made to determie its amount ins London, referred to, E EARLE, HENRY, Esq. On the mechanism of the spine, 276 Egg, observations on the changes it undergoes during incubation in the common fow1, 339 experiments on it at the end of the first week of incubation, or about the eighth day, W 388 experim eents on it at the end of the second week of incubation, or about the fifteenth day, 392 experiments on it at the end of the third week of incubation, or at the full period of incubation, 3941 experiments on the egg in its recent and unaltered state, 378 -experiments on the changes which take place in the fixed principles of the egg during incubation, 377 -reent saline contents of it, 382 Electrical light, its great brilliancy in pure dense vapour of mercury, 68 Electricalphenomena, on those exhibited ill vacuo, 6' Electricity, some experiments on the relations of electricity to space. as nearly void of matter as it can be made on the surface of the earth, _ 65 Eye, on its anatomical structure, 2 76 F FALLOWS, REVEREND FEARON. Communication of a curi. ous appearance lately observed upon the moon, 237 FARADAY, MICHAEL, AND JAMES STODART, Esquires, on the alloys of steel, M -Ai INDEX. page Fossil teeth and bones of elephant, rhinoceros, &c. Account of an assemblage of them discovered in a cave at Kirkdale, Yorkshire, in the year 1821, 171 found in a cavity of mountain lime-stone at Crawley Rocks, on the coast of Glamorganshire, 208 account of some discovered in the Mendip Hills in cavities of mouutain lime-stone, 909 Fossil bones and molar teeth of the elephant, account of some discovered in 1663, in a cavity of mountain lime-stone at Balleye, near Wirksworth, in Derbyshire, 2 13 Fossilfragments of bone, account of some discovered on Derdham DoWN, near Clifton, in a cavity of mountain lime-stone, 212 G Gaile nreuth, cavern at, ROSENMULLER'S description of it referred to, 216 GiLPiIN, GEORG-E, Esq. his observations for determining the amount of the dip of the magnetic needle in London, in 180l5, referred to, 18 G OLDINGHAM, JOHN, Esq. Observations for ascertaining the length of the pendulum at Madras in the East Indies, latitude I ? 4' 9", 1 N. with the conclusions drawn from the same, 127 -ax.. of the geographical situation of the Presidencies, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, in the East Indies, 48 of the difference of longitudes found by chronomleter and by correspondent eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter; with some supplementary information relative to Madras, Bombay and Canton; as also the latitude and longitude of Point de Galle and the Friar's Hood, 431 Hi H E.AL, CAPTAIN BASIL, R. N. Extract of a letter from him, containing observations of a comet seen at Valparaiso, 46 HoME, SIR EVERARD, Bart. On a new species of rhinoceros found in the interior of Africa, the skull of which bears a close resemblance to that found in a fossil state in Siberia and other countries, 38 INDEX. page HOME, SIR EVERARD, Bart. Croonian Lecture. On the anatomical structure of the eye; illustrated by microscopical drawings executed by F. BAUER, Esq. 76 __________________o on the difference in the appearance of the teeth and the shape of the skull in different species of seals, 239 observations on the changes the egg undergoes during incubation in the common fowl, illustrated by microscopical drawings, 339 _ on the placenta, 401 HOWARD, LuKE, Esq. on the late extraordinary depression of the barometer, _ 1 3 Hycena, description of three known species of this animal, all of them smaller and different from the fossil one, 187 the strength of this animal's jaw noticed, 189 I JOHNSON, JAMES RAWLINS, M. D. Observations on the genus Planaria, 437 Iron, on its anomalous magnetic action when between the white and blood-red heat, 117 -~ heated, experiments on the anomalous attraction which takes place in it, while the metal retains the bright red and red heat, 120 -. a table showing its effect on the compass needle at different degrees of heat, 124 and Steel, on the developement of magnetical properties in them by percussion, ? 241 IvoRy, JAMES, M. A. On the expansion in a series of the attraction of a spheroid, 99 K Kirkdale, in Yorkshire, account of an assemblage of fossil teeth and bones discovered in a cave there, in the year 1 821, 171 KNox, RIGHT IHoN. GEORGE. Experiments and observations on the Newry pitch.-stone, and its products, and on the formation of pumice, 313 L Longitudes, of the difference of longitudes found by chronometer and by correspondent eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter, 4j1 INDEX. M page Madras, observations for ascertaining the length of the pendulum at that place, 127 Magnesia, carbonate of, its presence in sea-water not detected by the most delicate tests, 45 $ lagnetical properties of steel and iron by percussion, 2'4 1 MARCET, ALEXANDER, M. D. Some experiments and researches on the saline contents of sea-water, undertaken with a view to correct and improve its chemical analysis,; 448 Mendip Hills, account of some teeth and bones of elephants and other animals discovered there, in cavities of mountain lime-stone, 209 Mercury, which some chemists have detected in sea-salt or its products, concluded to have been introduced there fromt some local or accidental circumstances, 451 MEYER, PROFESSOR J. TOBIAS, the superiority of his mag. netic needles shown, -4 Moon, communication of a curious appearance lately observed upon it,, Mural circle, Letter from the Astronomer Royal to SIR HuMPHRY DAVY, Bart. P. R. S. relative to a derangement in the mural circle at the Royal Observatory, 86 Mifuriate of lime, not contained in sea-water, 453 Muscles of the trunk, of those which are brought in aid of the common respiratory muscles, 288 N NAIRNE, EDWARD, Esq. his observations for determining the amount of the dip of the rnagnetic needle in London, in 1772, referred to, 18 Needle, compass, a Table showing the effect which iron at different degrees of be has ba -u1 ii Needle, magnetic, an account of one made upon the construction of that recommended by Professor J. TOBIAS MEYER, With some variations, -4 an account of experiments to determine the amount of its dip in London, in August 18 21, I Nerves, of those which associate the muscles of the chest, in the actions of breathing, speaking, and expression, 284 eighth pair of. the influence of the voltaic battery in obviating the effects of their division 22 INDEX. page Nerves, respiratory, anatomy of those of the trunk, 290 their origin, 286 are organs of expression, 30Nitric salt,, not found in sea-water, 452 0 Object-glass, triple, on the concentric adjustment of it, _Observatory, Madras, its longitude by the eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter, from 1787 to 1801, 412 Oreston, near Plymouth, account of the discovery of some fossil teeth and bones there, 213 P Pendulum, observations for ascertaining its length at Madras, in the East Indies, latitude 1S34'9",1 N. with the conclusions drawn from the same, 127 Percussion, experiments and observations on the developement of inagnetical properties in steel and iron by percussion., 241 PHILIP, A. P. WILSON, M. D. Some positions respecting the influence of the voltaic battery in obviating the effects of the division of the eighth pair of nerves, 22 Pitch-stone, Arran, experiments on it, 29 -Meissen, experiments to ascertain whether manganese really exists in it, 337 N w ewly, experiments and observations on it and its products, and on the formation of pumice, 313 Placenta, some observations on it, 4 specimen of a new mode of classing amimals, according to the structure of the placenta, 404 Planaria, observations on, that genus, 427 Point de Galle and Friar's Hood, their latitude and longitude, 431 POND, JOHN, Esq. Astronomer Royal, his letter to SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, Bart. P. R. S. relative to a derangement in the mural circle at the Royal Observatory, 86 Potash, the state in which it exists in sea-water, 455 Presents, a list of those received by the Royal Society from November 1821 to July 1822, 483 PtouTr, W ILLIAM, M. D. Some experiments on the changes which take place in the fixed principles of the egg during incubation, 377 Pumice, on the formation of it, 313 artificial formation of it, 333 MDCCCXXII S S INDEX. Q page Quagga, or wild ass, account of its migration in winter from the tropics to the vicinity of the Malel-eveen river, 41 Regent's Park, detail of some experiments on the dip of the magnetic needle made there, in August, 1821, 9 Rhinoceros, on a new species of this animal found in the interior of Africa, the skull of which bears -a close resemblance to that found in a fossil state in Siberia and other countries, 38 Asiatic, account of the manner and habits of one confined in the mLenagerie at Exeter Change, 43 RosENMULLER, M., his description of the manner in which he fouwd h1e fossil bones disposed in all the caverns he had examined, Q 217 S SABIN , CAPTAIN EPWARD. The Bakerian Lecture. An account of experimentsto determine the amount of the dip of the magnetic needle in London, in August 1821 with remarks on the instruments which are usually employed in such determinations, 1 SCORESBY, WILLIAM} jun. Esq. Experiments and obser-vations on the developement of magnetical properties in steel and iron by percussion, 241 Sea-water, some experiments and researches on the saline -contents of sea-waterr undertaken with a view to correct and imnprove its chemical analysis, 448 Seals, on the difference ini the appearance of the teeth and the shape of the Skill in diffcrent speciesofthem, -239 Selenitefound in sea-water,'in a state of perfect solution, 453 Soda, sulphate of doesn0ot exist 111 sea-water, 454 Spheroid, on the expansion in a series of the attraction of a spheroid, -99 Spine, on the mechanism of it, 276 Steel, on the alloys of it, 253 Steel and iron experints and observations on the developement of magnetical properties in them by percussion, 241 STODART, JAMES, AND MICHAEL FARADAY, Esquires, on the alloys of steel, 253 Sublimate, corrosive, some observations on it, 557 INDEX. page Sublimate, corrosive, is not soluble in the sulphuric and nitric acids, as well as in the muriatic acid, 361 T Thorax, of its motions, as affording a key to the intricacy of its nerves, 285 Tin, melted, grounds of suspicion that it may contain air, 74 'U Vacuum, mercurial, experiments on electrical and magnetic repulsions and attractions in it, 69 torricellian, some experiments to ascertain whetber the diminution of its temperature diminished its power of transmittinog electricity, 71 Valparaiso, observations of a comet seen there, 46 Vapours, the law of the diminution of their density represented by a geometrical progression, 70 Vegetable and animal substances, on the ultimate analysis of them, 457 Voltaic battery, its influence in obviating the effects of the division of the eighth pair of nerves, v 2 URE, ANDREW, M. D. On the ultimate analysis of vegetable and animal substances, 457 w Water, on the state of it in cavities found in certain crystals, 367 WHISTON, Mr., his determination of the dip of the magnetic needle in London in 1720, referred to, 19 WOLLASTON, WILLIAM H1YDE, M. D. On the concentric adjustment of a triple object-glass, on the finite extent of the atmosphere, 89 From the Press of WA fC0L, Successor to W. BULMER and Co. Cleveland-row, St. James'8 London. 