VI. An Extract of a Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. to Dr Nehemiah Grew, Fellow of the College of Physicians and R. S. concerning a Ball voided by Stool. A Poor Apprentice Girl at Rawden,4 miles from Leedes in Yorkshire, about 14 years of Age, having ~ tormented with Colical, and, as was suppos'd, Nephritick Pains for some time; at length voided a roundish Ball, per Anum, as hard to feel upon as a Stone. After a while, the Pains returning with greater violence, so as to make her roul upon the ground, <inferred>she</inferred> voided another as hard, and much bigger. Upon which, one Mrs Ward a neighbouring Gentlewoman, who had been much afflicted with Gravel, gave Q q q q q q q q q 2 her (1596) her some of those Medicins which she us'd to take her self. Whereupon the Girl voided a third Ball, also per Anum, with less pain, yet the greatest of the three. The first of these Balls is smooth and glossy, of the colour of a right Hazel nut 3 inches about,and somewhat compressed. The other two rough and gritty, and in like manner a little compressed into a kind of obtusely triangular figure. The 2d, is 4 inches and a half round about; the last, 5 inches and a half. Considering their bulk, all 3 are very light, especially the 2 latter and greater ones, of which the last weighs but 5 Drams 36 Grains; and both of them swim in water. This lightness proceeds from the Matter whereof they consist; which, in some places is purely Downey or Fuzzy; in others, mixed with a Gritty substance, yet not confusedly,but regularly mixed. The Fuzzy parts possest the central part of the Ball,with a small particle of blackish Glass or other Vitrify'd substance in the very Centre it self. Over which are several Coats, gritty and fuzzy, alternately ending in the circumference with a ~,much resembling the Ground work and Superstructure of the Oriental Bezoar-stone. The Powder of one of these Balls scraped off with a Knife,is no way mov'd or affected with any sort either of Alcaline or Acid Liquor dropp'd thereupon. Neither being burn'd doth it stink, it consisteth therefore of no Animal substance; but theGirl being of the Green-sickness age,the gritty parts (with the glassy particle in the Centre, as the most ponderous and least moveable) seams to be broken off of Tobacco-Pipes, and grownd small between her Teeth; the downy or fizzy to be lick'd or scrapd off the Lean of Mutton, or the Rind of Peaches, ~ other Part or Plant. Her Stomach kneading the Matter into a Coat, as her changeable Appetite supply'd it alternately with one or the other sort. VII.<inferred>.</inferred>An 