Philos.Trans.No.496.TAB.II.~ J.Green ~ Sculp. ~. p.II.p.599. ~ XIV. A Letter from the Rev. Charles Lyttelton LL. D. and F. R. S. Dean of Exeter to the President, concerning a nondescript petrified Insect. T H E curious Fossil I have now the Honour to exhibit to the Society, is as rare as its Figure is elegant; having been mention'd by none of our own Writers who treat on Read Dec. 20, 1750. Fossils, [599] Fossils, and but very imperfectly describ'd by foreign Lithographists *. I discover'd a single Specimen of it (see TAB. I. Fig. 3, 4, and 5.) last Year in the Limestone Pits at Dudley in Worcestershire; and very lately a large Mass of Limestone (see TAB. II.) full of them in the same Place; both which are now submitted to the Inspection of this Learned Body, who are best able to determine to what Class of the Animal Kingdom it properly belongs. I am, Sir, with great Regard, Hill-street, Dec. 20. Your most obedient Servant, 1750. C. Lyttelton. * I suppose the Dean means Dr. Bruckmann, and the late Mr. Linck, an eminent Apothecary at Lipsick: For Dr. Bruckmann, in his Centuria Epist. Itinerar. Wolffenbuttl. 1742. 4~, Epist. XXIII has given several Figures of Petrefactions, very much resembling these Dudley Fossils; the first was found at Steme, a Village in the Neighbourhood of Paderborn, given him by Dr. Kaenig, which he took for a sort of Polypus marinus; he says it is an Animal unknown to him, but he gives those Figures of it, in hopes that some curious Persons, who live near the Sea, may light upon some Animal resembling this. The Body of this Stone, he says, has, on each Side three striated Lobes, and three pointed Appendices beneath; its inner Substance is white, being Selenites, or white Spar; Its Colour on the Outside is every-where brown. His Friend Linck had sent him Specimens of these Stones 6 Years before, some modell'd in Wax, others engraved upon Copper. C. M. ADDENDA [600] A D D E N D A to the preceding Paper. Extract of a Letter from the Rev. Dr. Lyttelton to C. Mortimer, Secret. R. S. T H E Rev. Dr. Shaw, of Oxford, has procured a Specimen of the extended Eruca. As the Fossilists differ'd in their Opinion of this Dudley Fossil, some pronouncing it an Eruca, others a Bivalve, I thought it best to leave the Reader to judge for himself from the Engravings; but, as we are now able to add a Specimen of this Fossil in an extended Posture, there is a better Pretence to call it an Eruca. See TAB. I. Fig. 6. 7. and 8. 