XXI. Some further Intelligence relating to the Jaculator Fish, mentioned in the Philosophical Transactions for 1764, Art. XIV. from Mr. Hommel, at Batavia, together with the Description of another Species, by Dr. Pallas, F. R. S. in a letter to Mr. Peter Collinson, F. R. S. from John Albert Schlosser, M. D. F. R. S. Amsterdam, Feb. 15, 1766. WHEN the Jaculator fish intends to catch a fly or any other insect, which is seen at a distance, it approaches very slowly and cautiously, and comes as much as possible perpendicularly Read June 5, 1766. [187] dicularly under the object: then the body being put in an oblique situation, more or less in this manner, ~ and the mouth and eyes being near the surface of the water, the Jaculator stays a moment quite immoveable, having its eyes directly fixed on the insect, and then begins to shoot, without ever shewing its mouth above the surface of the water, out of which the single drop, shot at the object, seems to rise. With the closest attention I never could see any part of the mouth out of water, though I have very often seen the Jaculator fish shoot a great many drops one after another, without leaving its place and fixed situation. No more than two different species of this fish are found here. The first and rarest kind is that which I sent before; and to the description published in the LIVth volume of the Philosophical Transactions, the foregoing account may be added. You now will receive from me, a specimen of the second species, which is the most common here. Hommel. Batavia, October 30, 1764. TAB. VIII. Fig. 6. Sciaena Jaculatrix, quinque maculata, pinnis ventralibus adnatis, maxilla inferiore longiore. Locus. Mare Indicum. Magnitudo cyprini rutili. B b 2 Corpus [188] Corpus macrolepidotum (covered with large scales), dorso convexo, versus pinnam ascendente, abdomine tumidulo, antice carinato. Caput undique squamosum, corpore crassius, supra planiusculum. Os ascendens, maxilla inferiore multo longiore, utriusque marginibus subtiliter scabris. Palatum osseum, concavo carinatum, subtilissime scabrum. Lingua, plana, acuta, supra basin in medio gibba. Oculi magni, laterales, iride fulvo-aurea. Pinnae pectorales, acuminatae, radiorum XII. Pinnae ventrales radiorum VI, primo breviore aculeato, triangulares, fere sub pectoralibus, paulove posterius, inter se membranula connexae, quae abdomini fraenulo adhaeret. Squama lanceolata, fraenulo pinnarum ventralium utrinque accubans. Pinna dorsalis dimidia dorsi longitudine, caudae proxima, ascendens basi subcarnosa, radiorum XIII in uno, XV in altero specimine, quorum IV priores maximi, aculeati, primo breviore, membranis intersectis, unde pinna anterius serrata. Pinna ani, dorsali opposita, basi carnosa, squamataque, seu carinae caudae productae insidens, radiorum XVIII, quorum tres priores aculeati. Pinna caudae subaequalis, radiorum XVII. Color piscis aureus, in dorso fucescens; maculae fuscae, transversae, ad dorsum utrinque quinae, aequidistantes, prima ad tempora, ultima prope caudam. Received 