XI. A Paper concerning the Mola S A L U. or Sun-fish, and a Glue made of it; communicated by the Rev. Mr. William Barlow to the President of the Royal Society. StokeDock near Plymouth, Devon, June 29. 1734. T H E R E was brought to this Place, struck the Day before in our River, a Sun-fish weighing about 500 Pound Weight. The Form of it nearly answers that given by Mr. Willoughby, except that the Tail of this was scollop'd. This Fish differed very much in one thing from that described by Mr. Willoughby, whose Flesh, he says, was very soft: On the contrary, the Flesh of this was hard and firm, rather a gristly Substance than soft Flesh. A [344] A Gentleman of my Acquaintance, Commander of a Vessel, tells me, his People took a Sun-fish, South of Newfoundland, which, by his Description, was considerably larger than that brought hither. They made no Use of the Flesh; but he remembers it was a gristly Substance, hard and firm. A Piece of the Flesh boiled, to try how it would look and taste, to our Surprize, was all turned into a Jelly. Being soft and tender, it could not be taken out of the Saucepan with a Fork, but only with a Spoon; in Colour and Consistence nearly resembling boiled Starch when cold. It had little or nothing of the Fishy, but a grateful and pleasant Taste. By the sticking together of my Lips, and from what I observed by touching it with my Fingers, I took Notice, that this boiled Flesh was clammy and glutinous; which brought to my Mind, that what the Antients made use of to serve the Purposes of Glue, was made from Fish. I then tried it upon Paper and Leather, and found it to answer the Use of Paste very well: And it was owing in part to Neglect, and partly to Accident, that it was not also tried upon Wood. From this Discovery of the glutinous Nature of the Flesh of the Sun-fish, I would recommend it to those who have Opportunity to make farther Experiments upon it; and probably something useful, or curious at least, may be a satisfactory Reward for the Trouble they shall give themselves on that Account. From the Descriptions given us of the Ichthyocolla by Dioscorides and Pliny, the Glue-fish seems not to [345] to be the same as our Sun-fish. Whether the Fish from which our Isinglass is made, be the same as the Ichthyocolla of the forementioned Authors, as the Name usually given to it seems to import, I cannot tell: But neither the Ichthyocolla of Rondelitius or Bellonius, nor the Huso taken in the Danube, from the Bladder of which Fish-glue is made, can, by the Descriptions given of them, be the same as the Sun-fish. 