(467) VI. Some farther Observations relating to the Natural History of Wales. In a Letter from Mr. Edw. Lhwyd to Dr. Tancred Robinson, F. R. S. Usk in Monmouthshire, June 15. 1697. S I R, THE most considerable Discoveries, since my last, were some new Species of Glossopetrae and Siliquastra, (the first Ichthyodontes, I suppose, that ever were observ'd in Wales) on the top of a high Mountain called Blorens near Aber Gavenni. The Siliquastra were smaller than the generality of those I had observ'd in other Countries. Of the Glossopetrae we found one pretty large; but the rest very small; all black, or atrorubent. The same place afforded also some variety of Fossil Shells, and plenty of Cuthbert's Beads, which were very small in comparison of what are found throughout the North of England. We also found there a large Testaceous Body, not to be compar'd as to its Figure with any sort of Shell yet describ'd: Together with some embossed Representations of pieces of the Sceletons of Eels, or some lesser Fish. All these were in Limestone; but Advancing about 3 Miles further into Brecknockshire, at a place call'd Lhan Elhi we searched some Coal and Iron Mines. Their Coal-works were not Pits sunk like Draw-wells; but great Inroads made into the side of the Hill, so that three or four Horsemen might ride in abreast. The Top is supported with Pillars left at certain distances; and they make their By-lanes (as in other Pits) as the Vein requires. The Slat above this Coal afforded only Stalks of Plants, which we did not 2 S s s 2 save, (468) save, because it seem'd impossible to reduce them to their several proper Species. However, close by the Pit we found a valuable Curiosity, viz. a Stone for substance like those they make Lime of; of a compress'd Cylinder Form; and as it were cut off even at each End: About 8 Inches long, and 3 in breadth: Its Superficies adorn'd with equidistant Dimples, like Dr. Plot's Lepidotes, Hist Ox. chap. 5. par. 55. and in each Dimple a small Circle; and in the Center of each Circle a little Stud like a Pins head. This is the only Curiosity of the kind I have seen; and is not referable to any thing I can think of, either in the Animal or Vegetable Kingdom. Among the Iron Oars of the same Hills we found some new Spars, and several Specimens of Oars shot into a constant and regular Figure, tho not reducible to any Animal or Vegetable Bodies. About 5 Miles thence, at a place called Pont y Pwl in this County (where, as also at Lhan Elhi, there are Furnaces and Forges,) we found more Coal and IronMines; and collected some fair Representations of the Leaves of Capillary Plants on the Iron Oar, but found no Branches. One Major Hanbury of this Pont y Pool, shew'd us an excellent Invention of his own, for driving hot Iron (by the help of a Rolling Engin mov'd by Water) into as thin Plates as Tin: But without a Draught of the Machine I cannot give you a Notion of it. They cut their common Iron Bars into Pieces of about two foot long; and heating them glowing hot, place them betwixt these Iron Rollers; not across, but their Ends lying the same way as the Ends of the Rollers. The Rollers (moved with Water) drive out these Bars to such thin Plates, that their Breadth, which was about 4 Inches, becomes their Length, being extended to about 4 Foot; and what was before the Length of the Bars is now the Breadth of the Plates. With these Plates he makes Furnaces, Pots, Kettles, Sauce-Pans, &c. These (469) These he can afford at a very cheap rate (about the third part of what is usual) and yet dares warrant them not less serviceable: So that it is not to be doubted, but that he will meet with the Encouragement due to so Ingenious and useful an Invention. He sends most of his Plates to London (where he has Workmen) making at home only what he finds the Country will take off. I am, Sir, Your most obliged Servant, E. LHWYD. P. S. We had at Pont y Pool, on the 6th instant, an extraordinary Shower of Hail; which extended about a Mile, and lasted near half an Hour. It broke down the Stalks of all the Beans and Wheat within that Circumference; and ruined as much Glass at Major Hanbury's House, as cost 4 l. the repairing. Some of the Hail were 8 Inches about; as to their Figure, very irregular and unconstant; several of the Hail-stones being compounded, as the Major judg'd, who saw them. VII. Con