4 6 (95) VII. An Account of a Stone found in the Stomach of a Lady on Dissection, another in the left Kidney, and some smaller ones in the Gall-Bladder. By Mr. William Clerk, Surgeon. Communicated by Dr. Charles Preston. IN the year 1690. having the Curiosity to visit the Mineral Wells, called Moffet Wells, in the County of Annandale in Scotland, I had there an occasion of Dissecting a Lady who had been drinking of the Waters, by advice of her Physicians, for a Distemper in her Stomach, viz. a continual Vomiting, as also for the Dolor Nephriticus; How long she had been troubled with these Distempers, or what time she continued to drink of the Waters I had no account; only this I know, she dyed in a fit of Vomiting, the reason whereof seems to be plain and obvious; for upon dissecting the Stomach, I found a Stone of the bigness and form as in fig. 1. the corner a. was almost fixed in the Pylorus, so that the passage from the Stomach to the intestines was near quite shut up. The substance of this Stone is a little Spongy, weighing about eight Drams and an half. On Dissection of the left Kidney, I found also a Stone of the same Substance and form, as represented in fig. 2. weighing about five Drams, and in the Gall Bladder I found several Stones,as represented in fig.3. weighing two Drams. That Stones daily generate in the Vesica Urinaria, Reins and Vesicula fellis, is a thing very ordinary and common; but that Stones should be bred in the Stomach (96) mach of a human Body, is not so very common; However, it seems they have been produced by the same common Cause and petrefying Matter. But I am apt to believe some extraneous body has given origine to that of the Stomach, as it happens frequently even in those extracted from the Vesica Urinaria. Monsieur Tolet in his Treatise of Lithotomy, relates a Story of a Soldier that was cut for the Stone, and an Iron Tag taken out of it, Paraeus, lib. 25. chap. 15. reports the like. Hildanus de Lithiasi Ch.3. col.2. writes that a Geneva Man dying after twenty eight years complaint of Gravel, on dissection they found a Stone whereof a Leaden Bullet was the Kernel, which he had received by a Musket Shot. Joseph Cavillart, Obs.viij. relates a parallel Case. Stones generated in the Stomach excite horrid pains, but there are scarce any clear signs by which they can be distinguished from others, except the continuance of the pain; sometimes they are ejected by Vomit; but we have a most notable instance of Stones adherent to the bottom of the Stomach, in Horstius, lib. Inst. p. 142. viz. Religiosus quidam nobilis ordinis Sancti Benedicti & Monasterii campidonensis custos septem circiter annos per Intervalla miris modis conflictatur cum morbis & praeter Ceteras res saepius de dolore circa regionem Cartilaginis ensiformis conquerebatur, post mortem apertus fuit & ventriculo Dissecto plures quam triginta calculos nunc majores nunc minores fundo ac substantiae ventriculi pertinacissime adhaerentes cum maxima adstantium admiratione extraxit. That several extraneous Bodies are oft-times found in the Stomach, being swallowed over, either wilfully or by accident; We have the Authority of Senner. lib. prax. 3. par 2. ser. 1. cap. XV. primo enim compertum est nummos, globulos plumbeos, clauas, mucrones gladiorum & Cultrorum, (97) rum, gemmas, metalla, & alia, deglutita fuisse, quorum historias varias collegit Schenkius, lib. 3. obs. 2, 3, 4, & seq. Secundo varia & monstrosa saepe in ventriculo genita aut quocunque modo producta & vomitu rejecta fuisse observatum est teste Forresto, & aliis quamplurimis. Lapidis etiam ovi gallinacei magnitudine ibidem generariSchenk. lib. 3. obs. 9. capillorum veluti glomos, vomitu rejectos fuisse refert Monardes, lib.3. De Hist. simpl. med. & notabilis, sed certa est Historia de extractions cultri ex ventriculo, & vulnus idonies medicamentis sanatum aegerque vivus evasit. And amongst the Rarities in the Anatomy Hall at Leyden, there is preserved a Knife ten Inches in length, which was cut out of a Peasants Stomach, and he lived eight years after. It has been of a long time the received Opinion of Physicians, that Wounds in the Stomach were mortal, but we have also a late instance of the contrary, Philos. Trans. Numb. 219. It were easy to give a number of fresh instances of the swallowing down of Money, &c. and there are some late Accounts in Philos. Trans. but there is a Gentleman one Mr. Cameron, an Episcopal Divine, who some years ago in a frolick swallowed half a Crown, who is alive to this Day, and finds no great Inconveniency thereby. That Stones are not only formed in the Stomach, vesica urinaria, Reins and vesicula fellis, but also in all other parts of the Body, is without all controversy confirmed by manifold Observations and Experience, for Stones in the Brain, vide Philosoph Transact. Numb.228. Stones cut out of the Kidnies, Numb. 233. Stones in the Ureters and Kidnies, Numb. 233. Stone as big as an Hens Egg in the Gall Bladder, Numb. 233. Stone bred at the root of the Tongue, Numb. 247. Tulpius O in (98) in his obs. Med. lib. 2. cap. 25. has these words, Caleulum ubivis Locorum in homine reperiri certum est.Vidit eum ex utero erumpere Hipp. ex pulmone Galenus, ex capite Hollerius, ab IntestinisTrincavellius ex Liene ac fellis vesciculs ut alii, sic nos, ex Lingua ac colli glandulis, sed calculum qui in arteriis Invenerit equidem hactenus inveni neminem, Paraeus, lib. 25. ch. 15. says, he took one from a Man's Knee. Horst. lib. obs. 4. pag. 249. mentions one who voided Two hundred thirty three Stones per Annum, and another that voided One hundred and fifty: Page 150. relates a case where Two hundred were taken out of the Gall Bladder, some quadrangular and of a brown and yellow colour; but that which is more strange is, that Stones should be found even in the Heart it self. Horst. lib. 4. cap. 25. Quodque notatu dignum circa valvulas dextri ventriculi calculum ex tartaro concretum instar minoris castaneae nucis compressioris Membranosae valvularum substantiae adnatum conspicitur, pag. 253. Historia medico rara & obseruatu baud indigna de calculo, viz. Magnitudine nucis castaneae minoris, post continuum capitis dolorem e naribus per palatum rejecto. For Stones found in angulis oculorum, vide Platerum, page 906. Ch. xv. aliquando emunctione calculum excretum vidimus, expuitione cum tussi calculos rejectos fuisse non solum ego sed & alii observarunt; ex ore quoque alii calculi aliquando prodierunt, veluti e Linguae tumore. sicut aliqui notarunt: per anum calculum Scyballi formam exprimentem redditum domi quoque asservamus, aliumque qui ex equi alvo prodiit in partu faetum Lapidescentem seu petrosum exclusum a matre se vidisse medicus quidam nostri seculi clarus mihi narravit, idemque scripto publico testatus est. Cutis poros tophuli exigui innascuntur indeque eximuntur per aperturas, sponte vel sectione factas, tophi e nodis podagricorum plures saepenumero prodierunt. Those (99) Those Stones in the Nerves, are named by Paulus AEgineta, Nodosae nervorum concretiones. Now that Stones are generated in all parts of the Body, is almost clear to a Demonstration, confirmed by so many observations of credible Persons, but more ordinarily are formed in the Kidnies, and Vesica Urinaria, because more properly design'd to separate and contain the serum of the Blood, and for that reason Stones in the Reins, and vesica urinaria, are more troublesome to Persons afslicted therewith, then in any other part of the Body; (1.) Because the parts are more sensible; (2.) Because they stop the passage for evacuating the Serum, that is continually separating from the Blood, and by consequence distend the Vessels, and so cause horrid pains. As for the Figures and bigness of those Stones, that is a thing very uncertain, for they are found of all Forms and Shapes, some bigger, some less; some of a prodigious bigness, for which vide Philosoph. Transact. Numb. 222. and Tolet's Treatise of Lithotomy. Stones are not only found in Human Bodies, but also in several parts of other Animals, as Bezoar Stone found in the Stomach of a kind of Goat in both Indies, as also in the Stomach of Monkies (which is esteemed the best:) There is also a kind of Bezoar called Cow Bezoar, found in the Stomach of a Cow. Hippolithus found in the Stomach of Horses, AEgagropila, in the Capra Alpina &c. it were needless to mention any more, these Instances being sufficient. The Writers of the Materia Medica ascribe great vertues to these Stones, and particularly the Bezoar, and have wrote large Encomiums upon them, to whom I refer. But if Physicians would consider seriously the true worth of them, and virtue in the Cure of Diseases, they would find, that their vertue proceeds more from their O 2 being (100) being brought srom a foreign Country, and a common vogue and esteem they have got in the World, then from any intrinsick vertue they have in the cure of Diseases; and that which seems most to recommend them is their extravagant Price: Whereas we can name twenty Medicines in the Materia Medica, that each of them is as essectual, if not more, in the Cure of Diseases, and to be procured at less Charges. VIII. 