An Account of Books. ~ ~ ~ ~, &c. Cum Versione & Notis Joh. Wallis SS.Th. Doct. Geometriae Professoris Saviliani. Oxonii e Theatro Sheldoniano, 1676. THough this Tract of Archimedes his Arenarius have been formerly twice printed in Greek, and thrice in Latin yet did the Learned Dr.Wallis see cause enough to publish another Edition, therein presenting us with many emendations in the Original, and with a new Version in Latin, and adding some short stricture, forving to illustrate the sense thereof. And the Book seemed to deserve these pains, as being not only an elegant and acute piece, worthy of Archimedes,but also an excellent Monument preserving both a piece of remote Antiquity, as is that of Aristarchus Samius his Hypothesis, revived by Copernicus, and that of the Dorick Dialect in Prose. Besides,it exhibits the foundation laid of the Art of Numbring or rather Noting of numbers, now in use amongst us, with Saracenique or rather Indian Cyphers. And it accommodates those numbers ~,~,~,~,~, &c. not only to numbers proportional in a decuple ratio; but also to any others, in any ratio whatsoever, that are in a continual proportion from the Unite: And they are the same with what is commonly call'd Unit, Root, Quadrat, Cube, Biquadrat, to wit, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~, &c. I a aa a3 a4 a5 a6, &c. As to the argument of the Book, 'tis well enough known to the Curious, that it Geometrically shews a number exceeding that E e e e which (568) which is equal to the number of the Sand, capable to fill up not only the whole Earth and its cavities, but also the whole World. To this Tract of the Number of the Sand, is added that other of the same Archimedes, touching the Dimension of a Circle, because 'tis several times quoted in the former,as the foundation of his Calculus; nor did it want emendation. To it is annexed Eutocius his short Commentary upon the said Dimension, which exhibits a Specimen of the form and manner, wherein the later Greeks were wont to write their Comments upon their more ancient Authors; and shews withal,how laborious it was to make Multiplications, Divisions,and Extractions of roots before the use of the Indian Cyphers was introduced, as a so after what manner they were performed. II. Observationes Medicae circa MORBORUM ACUTORUM HISTORIAM EI CURATIONEM; Auth. Thoma Sydenham M. D. Londini, in 8~. The Author of this Treatise,aiming principally in his Practise of Physick to contribute what he can to the real and constant cure of all Diseases, and being well aware of that great desideratum in Physick of faithfully recording such Medical Observations and Methods of Cure, as by candid and careful Physicians are made, and with success employ'd,resolved at length,after many solicitations of those of his Friends that knew his Practise, and his constant endeavours of improving the same for the common benefit of Mankind,to publish these his Observations, relating to the History and the successful and certain Cure of Acute Diseases, waving therein all Philosophical Hypotheses, and delivering nothing but genuin matter of ~; distinguishing withal the peculiar and constant Phaenomena of Diseases from those accidental and adventitious; and very carefully observing the aptness of the several Seasons of the Year to occasion the several sorts of Diseases reigning in them. Now this History and Cure of Acute Diseases here described, comprehends his Observations of the fifteen last years of this Age; a competent time, for rendring an account of the distinct species of Epidemicals, which not only fortuitously invade us, but are in one year, or in a certain series of years, of one and the same kind, and in other years different from one another. To descend to the particular Matter here performed, our Author hath observ'd, that from the years 1661 to that of 1676. there have reigned five several Constitutions of the Air, (569) Air, which have produced as many species of Epidemical Diseases and Feavers severally named. Of these he calls the first the Continual Depuratory Feaver, lasting from 1661 to 1665, which he esteems to be the principal Feaver of Nature, forasmuch as therein she doth so regulate all the Symptoms, as to dispose the Febrile matter, when duly digested and prepared, to be discharged either by a competent sweat or a liberal transpiration. Here he records divers important Observations of his, and notes the several symptoms of the Disease, the Method of cure,and the Diet of his Patient,both during the Disease and after it; concluding this Head with describing the nature,symptoms and cure of the Intermittent Feavers bred in this first Constitution. The second Epidemical Constitution of another kind he observes to have been in London in the years 1665 and 1666 This kind he calls Inflammatory, of which nature the Plague or Pestilence was in the highest degree, sweeping away, when it was in its height, 8000 in one week, more or less. Here he takes notice, that for rendring a rational account both of such wasting Diseases as this, and of such that are very gentle, it may be supposed,that sometimes the constitution of the body of the Air is such that it breeds Diseases that carry away innumerable People; at other times it afflicts but a very final number of them; though it be yet very obscure to us, wherein that different texture of Air, that hath such different effects, doth consist. Now of this second sort he very particularly describes also the several symptoms,and the difficulties occurring in respect of those Physicians that advise and use Venae-section in the Plague: Where he relates a strange example of the good success thereof here in England; as also his own use of bleeding in this distemper for a while, together with his reason of desisting from it, and the method by him employ'd afterwards, and the success thereof. The third Epidemical Constitution, described by him, did obtain in the years 1667, 1668, and part of 1669; and it was that of the Small pocks, and of a Variolous Feaver, resembling (except the eruption of the pustuls) the Smal-pocks, in symptoms and duration, and vanishing with the Small-pocks. This was accompanied with a Diarrhaea,especially at the later end of it;& it approached so near the nature of the Small-pocks,that it seem'd to be nothing else, E e e e 2 but (570) but the same turn'd inward and incumbent on the viscera. The Phaenomena, s, mptoms, and cure of this Feaver, and the diffetence between the Distinct and the Flox-pox, and the slaughter of thousands sick of these Pox for want of a due Method in treating the patients, and many other considerable remarks, are with great care and skill deliver'd by the Author. The fourth Epidemical Constitution here discoursed of, was here in vogue An. 1670, 1671, 1672, and is by our Author call'd the Dysenterical Feaver, accompanied with the Measels, and the Cholera morbus, and follow'd by a Bilious Colick: All described as to their essects and method of cure, with the like care and caution, as the fore going. The fifth Constitution that obtained here was An. 1673, 1674, 1675, viz. A Feaver of a very Anomalous nature, to which the Dysentery and Diarrhaea were only symptomical, not essential, and upon which surven'd Epidemical coughs, with Pleuresies and Peripneumonia's; as these five constitutions were Stationary,so they had some Intercurrent Feavers, as the Scarlet~seaver, the Bastard Peripneumonia, the Rheumatisme, the Erysipelas, and the Angina, which are also accurately described by our Author, both as to their Phaenomena and Cure. See the Author himself both for his Observations and manner of the Cure. III. De CONSENSU VET. ET NOVAE PHILOSOPHIAE Libri IV, seu Promotae per Experimenta Philosophiae pars prima: Authore J. B. Du Hamel P. S. L. & Regiae Scientiarum Academiae a Secretis, in 12~. In this second and considerably augmented Edition the worthy and Learned Author performs four things in so many Books. In the first,he gives an account of the Principles of the Platonick Philosophy, and shews the difference between it and the Peripatetick; delivering in the same the Natural Theology of the Platonists, and discoursing fundamentally, from their Principles, of the Existence of God, and his Providence and Concourse; then of the Origine as well as the Spirit of the World; not forgetting to shew, how that Philosophy endeavours to raise the Mind to the consideration of Eternal and Primaeval notions, and having diverted it from immersing it self into unstable and perishable things, converts it to such as are only perceived by the Intellect; which our Author duely pondering the dignity of Humane Nature, esteems to be of exceeding (571) exceeding great importance, especially since the world now swarms with those that are so very sensual as to contend, that nothing can be understood but Body. In the second Book he explains first the Principles of Aristotle, and discourses at large of the nature and origine of Formes; yet without determining here, whether the Forms of living substances or the qualities of Bodies are things different from matter, or not. Next, he treats of the Epicurean Philosophy, as less difficult and more obvious; discoursing of Atoms, their nature and figures of continuity, and the manner of the cohaesion of Atoms, as also of vacuity, &c. Thirdly, he explains the Cartesian Principles; where he hath first a large discourse about the nature of a Physical Body, endeavouring to evince, that the essence of it consists not in a ~ Dimension, & to shew,that the Idea of the three dimensions, (than which Des Cartes contends we can have no other of a Body,) is the Idea only of a Mathematical, not a Physical Body. Secondly, he treats largely of the Nature and Law of Motion. Thirdly, of the Elastique motion, and the causes of that motion, and of the manners in which it is communicated; as also what difference there is in the configuration of the parts in Springly Bodies, from those that have no Spring; inquiring also, in the Appendix to this Treatise, into the efficient causes of Elasticity, concerning which he delivers the sentiment of Mr. Perrault, after he had alledg'd the Materia subtilis of Des-Cartes, and the ignited Atoms, and the Fssluvia of Bodies, which as so many wedges do dilate the constricted passages of the inflected Body. As to the opinion of Mr. Perrault, he supposes, that the ambient Air is of two sorts; one thicker, composed of particles of Earth, Water, &c. inspired by us, not pervading glass nor any other solid body; the other, far subtiler and more penetrant, intermingled with the thicker, almost after the manner that quick-lime is mixed with sand,both swimming and moving in the ather, and mixed with it as lime is mingled with water. Moreover, that as the thicker Air, which extends it self to some miles,hath its weight, so the more subtile hath a greater weight (many Experiments evincing both.) Now to this subtile Air Mr. Perrault ascribes the Elastique power and other affections, as the firmness and cohaesion of Bodies; forasmuch as the corpuscles, which compose every thing, having plain and flat and manisold superficies's, cannot (572) cannot be pull'd asunder, but they must remove the neighbouring parts of the Air from their place, and by doing so somewhat raise the mass of the Air incumbent,they being every where pressed from the environing Air, no otherwise than a Body immersed in water is on all sides compressed by water. Wherefore as often as a sirm body, e. g. the branch of a tree,is bent, the convex parts thereof are somewhat forced asunder,but when that exterior force ceaseth, than every part recovers its proper figure and scite; and this, he faith, is mainly effected by the weight of the subtiler Air, &c. In the third Book he treats amply of the four Elements, commonly so called, Fire, Air, Water, and Earth: where occur many considerable Observations concerning Fire and Air. The Epicurean notion of Fire is here explained, and the Cartesian like wise; and those particulars discussed, that seem difficult in the later. There are also recited many phaenemena of Flame, and the latent fire in Lime and other Bodies ingeniously discoursed of: Moreover, what is the nature and use of the Air, what the nature of the AEther, together with the many Experiments about the Spring of the Air, made in the Machina Boyliana, in England and elsewhere, &c. In the fourth are explained the Principles of Chymistry, the mixture and dissolution of Bodies, Fermentation &c. This also is full of new Experiments and Observations, made here and in France, and other Countries. So that there being represented in this new Edition, as in an Epitome,most of the subjects and enquiries of Natural Philosophy, and they treated with much plainness and elegancy, it may be of great use to young Students in Philosophy to instruct theselves in all those matters with brevity and delight. IV. Of EDUCATION, especially of Young Gentlemen, in two parts, the second Impression with Additions; Printed at the Theater Oxon. 80. That eminently Learned and Famous Knight Sir Henry Wotton, did long since, at the end of his Elements of Architecture, promise, as devoted to the service of his Countrey, a Philosophical Survey of Education which is indeed (says he) a Second Building or Repairing of Nature, and a kind of Moral Architecture. This he promised An. 1624; and he made many Essays, and began some Chapters, but could never bring his design to so much perfection, as could give satisfaction to his own mind and intentions. This our Author (573) Author, who is pleased to conceal his Name, is very full and punctual, with Instructions proper for all conditions of human life, particularly for the Generous. The wisest of all Ages have taken care of Education, as fundamental to prosperous Government, and the best & most seasonable help to good Literature. Solomon for the East,and Daniel, had there an extraordinary felicity. Socrates, Plato, Xenophon, Isocrates, and the Sententious small Poets, as we call them, are, in their several capacities, for Greece. Cicero and Quintilian, above all others, for sound Wit and Eloquence, and peculiarly for their Orator, which should be their perfect, compleat and honest (that is,in their Style, Honorable) Man among the Romans. And some of the acutest of our Modern have been free of their Adviso's to prompt the Studious: Bodin, for History; Clapmarius in his Nobile Studiorum Triennium. Also Grotius, in one or two sheets; Sturmius, with like brevity; Chr. Colerus De Studio Politico; and Casselius in a touch: Joac. Focani De ratione Studiorum Dissertatio: For choice or variety of Books, Drexelius. And Gabr. Naudaei Bibliographia Politica, and his Instructions for erecting a Library, elegantly English'd by Worthy Mr. Evelyn. Many curious French have done well for the main; J. M. argutely in an English sheet, &c. But this our Author hath reduced the best of Antient and Modern Adviso's into a compact Method,and inter'ac'd it with a very great variety of his own seasonable suggestions. I shall give no judgment upon the particulars; and the whole is composed so succinctly, that it needs not nor admits any other breviat. But I dare affirm it, that this Treatise is singularly worthy to be perused by all the Ingenuous, that are or may be concern'd in those Fundamental affairs; as worthy also to come forth from the Famous Theatre of Oxford. III. Bathoniensium & Aquisgranensium THERMARUM Comparatio, variis adjunctis illustrata a R. P. Londini, impensis Joh. Martyn, ad insigne Campanae in Caemeterio D. Pauli, 1676. in octavo. THe ingenious comparison that is made in this Tract of these two Baths, regards their Antiquity, Scituation, Structure, Cause of their Heat, Minerals that are their Ingredients, and their Medicinal Virtues; further, their Number, Difference, and Form: (574) Form: To which is added the diversity of Time, when the waters of these Bathes are to be used; together with the Recreations and Divertisements that occur in both places. VI. VIRETUM BRITANNICUM, or a Treatise of Cider, and such other Wines and Drinks, as are extracted from all manner of Fruits growing in this Kingdom; with the Method of propagating all sorts of Vinous Fruit Trees. And a Description of a New invented Ingenio or Mill, for the more expeditious and better making of Cider. Also the method of making Metheglin and Birch-Wine; with Copper-plates: By J. W. Gentleman in octavo. THis is done by the worthy Author of Systema Agriculturae in Fol. who, by the Printer's fault, was omitted Num. 114, p. 322. and only mentioned in the Errata at the end of Numb. 115, though he deserves Recommendations much larger than I am able to give, for his great merits towards the Publick. Printed by T. R. for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society at the Bell in St.Paul's Church-Yard. 