An Account of two Books lately printed in London. I. EVCLIDIS ELEMENTA GEOMETRICA,novo ordine ae methodo demonstrata. In this compendious and pretty Edition, the Anonymous Author pretends to have rendred these Elements more expeditious; by bringing all together into one place, what belongs to one and the same subject: Comprising I. what Enclid hath said of Lines, Streight. Intersecting one another, and Parallel. 2. What he hath demonstrated of a Single Triangle, and of Triangles Comparcd one with another. 3. What of the Circle, and its Propeties. 4 What of Proportiuns in Triangles and other Figures. 5. What of Quadrats and Rectangles, made of Lines divecsly (262) cut. 6. What of Plane Superficies's. 7. What of Solids. After which follow the Problems. The Definitions are put to each Chapter as need requireth. The Axioms, because theyare few,and almost every where necessary, are not thus distributed in Chapters. The Postulata, are not subjoyn'd to the Axioms, but reserv'd for the Problems, the Author esteeming,that they being practical Principles, had only place in Problems. This for the Order: As to the Manner of Demonstrating, One and the same is observ'd in most Propositions; all with much brevity; to the end, that what is not ofit self difficult,may not be made so,by multitude of Words and Letters. II. THE ENGLISH VINE-YARD VINDICATED. The Author (Mr. John Rose, his Majesties Gardener at his Royal Garden in St. James's) makes it his business in this small Tract (a very thin Pocket-book) by a few short Observations made by himself, to direct Englishmen in the Choice of the Fruit,and the Planting of Vine-yards;heretofore very frequently cultivated, though of late almost quite neglected by them. He discourses skilsully, 1. Of the severall sorts of Vines, and what Grapes are most sutable to the Climate of England; where he chiefly commends the small Black-grape, or Cluster-grape; the Parsley grape; the White Muscadine; the Frontiniack; and a new White-grape, with a red Wood and a dark green Leaf: All these being early ripe fruit. 2. Of the Soyle,and Scituation of a Vine-yard in England: Where,as to the First,he pitches upon a Light Soile, having a bottom of Chalk or Gravel,and given to Brambles,observing, that no Plant whatsoever is so connatural to the Vine for Soyl,as the Bramble. As for the Scituation,he chooses that side or declivity of a Hill,that lies to the South or Southwest; and is favoured with other Hills somewhat higher, or Woods on the North and East, to break the rigour of those quarters.This direction he thinks of thatimportance,that he affirms, that the discouragement of the Culture of Vines in England has only proceeded from men's mis-information on this material article of Choice of Soyle and Scituation. 3. How to prepare the Ground for the Plantation, vid. by plowing up the Swarth in July, and by disposing the Turf in small heaps, and so burning them, and spreading the ashes over the Land; care being taken, that by heaping too much materials together, the Earth be not over-burnt by the excessive heat and fire, which they require to reduce them to ashes. What is added, of the Manner of planting the Sets; of Dressing, Pruning and Governing the Plantation; of the Ordering and Cultivating the Vineyard after the first four years, till it needs renewing; as also of the manner and time, how and when to manure the Vine-yard, with Compost, will be better understood from the Book it self, than can be here described; the Author pretending, that, those few observations of his, as the native production of his own Experience, being practised with care,the Vine-yards in England may be planted, govern'd and perpetuated with undoubted success; and offering withall to furnish those, that have a desire to renew this Culture, and to store their grounds with Sets and Plants of all those sorts, which he recommends; he having a plentisul stock of them all. Printed with Licence for John Martyn,and James Allestry, Printers to the Royal Society. 1666. 