VII. An Account of what appeared on opening the Body of St. Johns Esq; who dyed of an Asthma, July the 2d 1705. Aged 72 Years. By the late Mr. William Cowper, Surgeon, F. R. S. Communicated by Dr. Hans Sloane, Reg. Soc. Secr. IT was remarkable, before the Body was removed from the Bed, whereon it lay.... Hours after Death, that the Blister in the Neck had discharged not less than a Quart or three Pints of Serum before I began the Dissection. In (535) In the Abdomen was a small quantity of Water; such as is usual in those who dye of Chronical Diseases. The Parts in this Lower Venter were in a Natural State; except The Kidneys, of which the Right was very much contracted, even to a third part of its Natural size, and had two large Hydatides, or Bladders of clear Water, on its Surface. The Left Kidney was also lessened, but not so much as the Right: Its Surface like that was unequal, but had no Hydatides on it. The Ureter of this Left Kidney was very much contorted, at its rise from the Pelvis, where its Sides were Petrified; insomuch that its Canal was almost render'd impervious for the Passage of the Urine. Nothing was found in the Bladder of Urine, but divers Stones of unusual Figures, as if they had been pieces of a large Stone broken to bits, in whose Center a Nucleus had been lodged. The Gall-Bladder was filled with Gall-Stones. Nor was the Stomach, which he complained of (i. e. in want of Appetite) any other ways disordered; but a little redder, having more Blood in its Vessels than is usual; its Muscular Fibres being stronger than we generally find them in the Stomachs of healthful Persons. The Cavity of the Thorax, or Chest, was filled with Water on both sides; insomuch, that the Lungs were not above a third part of their Natural Magnitude. The Pleura, or Membrane that lines the two Cavities of the Thorax, was very much thick'ned by the Serum or Water; from whence it descended by the Muscles of the Back into his Legs. The Vaives of the Left Ventricle of the Heart were Petrified in several Places, especially those call'd Mitrales. There were some Stony Bodies found on the Bronchia, at and near their Rise from the Lungs. VIII. A 