J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. (259) Traite De l' Organe de l' Ovie par Mons~. Du Verney. 8vo. A Paris 1683. THat you may know ~ to expect from Mons~ Du Verney's ~ of the Organ of Hearing, the First thing to be considered is, the Natural,and therefore the Best,method he hath taken in it. The Book is divided into three parts, the first of which contains his Anatomical Discoveries of the structure of the Organ it self; The Second part gives us the use of all the parts of that Organ, grounded upon the Mechanism of the whole; The Third and last part containeth the Diseases incident to this Organ, with a full description of the several causes which disaffect it, and the manner they act by, together with particular Remedies for each Distemper. The Ear is first divided into the External and the Internal: the External is composed of a Cartilage covered with a Skin very delicate, under which you meet with another Nervous tegument, that immediately embraces the whole Cartilage, which after some few folds terminates in that part of the Ear which we call the Concha, from its resemblance to the entrance of a snail-shel: besides these it hath two Muscles; the First is made up of certain carneous Fibres fixt to that part of the Pericranium that covers the musculous Crotaphytes, and descends in a straight line to insert it self at the upper part of the second folding of the Ear: the Second likewise consists of five or six Carneous Fibres that take their rise from the upper and foremost part of the Apophysis Mastoides, and descending obliquely for about an inch terminate at the middle of the Concha. Arteries it hath from (260) from the Carotid's one branch of which passeth behind, and the other before, and the distribution of these is attended by Veins from the external Jugular. The hole of the Ear is a Tube reaching from the Concha to the Drum and consists partly of a Cartilage, and partly of a Bone the Skin that covers it is furnished with an infinite number of Glandules of a Yellowish colour, each of which hath its Tube opening into the cavity of the Ear,and sending forth that yellow glexy substance which is ordinarily found there: at the end of this passage is seated the Membrane called the Drum and is almost round, dry, thin, and transparent, and is ~ in a channel cut in the bone at the end of that Tube. After this Membrane succeeds a cavity which he calls the Barrel, from the likeness it hath to the Barrel of a Drum, being on the sides ~ by the Bone, closed before by that Membrane, and behind by the surface of the Os Petrosum. This Barrel of the Drum contains in it five sorts of things remarkable, viz. Two Channels, Two ~ pertures, Four Bones, three Muscles, and One Branch of the Nerve. The Channel that goes from the Ear to the Palate he calls the Aqueduct, and deniesit to have any Values to hinder the passage of any thing from the ~, The Apertures, or Windows are ~ in the Superficies of the Os Petrosum opposite to the Drum; the highest is the Oval Window,in the bottom of which is a small edg on which the Basis of the ~ rests; the other which is called the Round Window has a small Channel in which is set a very fine, dry, and diaphanous Membrane like that of the Drum. The first of the bones is the Malleus, the length of which is commonly about Four ~ (or Four of Twelve parts of an Inch)the ~ of ~ breadth is the Third of its length; the Second is the ~, the longest of ~ legs is joyned to the Stapes by the mediation of the Fourth bone. Of the Three Muscles which are contained in this Cavity (261) ty, two belong to the Malleus, the Third to the Stapes; lastly, the branch of the Nerve which passes behind the Drum has been taken by some for the Tendon of the Muscle of the Malleus, is a branch of the Fifth pair. The Two Windows open into a cavity which is hewn in the Os Petrosum and called the Labyrinth, divided likewise into three parts viz. the Entery of the Labirinth, the three Semi circular Canals, and the Snail-shel The entry of the Labyrinth is situated behind the Oval Window and hath Nine apertures, viz. the Oval one and Eight more, the First of which leads into the upper part of the Snail-shel, Five belong to the Semi-circular Canals, and the two last transmit two branches of the softer portion of the Auditory Nerve &c. The implanted air he takes to be that contained within the above mentioned Windows, which being both closed, the one by the base of the Stapes, the other by a Membrane of its own, do sufficiently forbid any intercourse between that and the external air, and discoursing of the Nerve which passes along the Musculus Mastoides and the Parotids to the Ear, he deduces it from the second pair of the Vertebral Nerves which,he says,Dr.Willis brings from the the first. The differences o f this Organ in the Faetus are that the bony part of the entrance to the Ear is nothing but an hard Membrane, that there is a ring which serves for a frame to the Tympanum separable from the Os Temporum, tho afterwards united to it, and that while the Faetus is yet in the womb, the Tympanum is covered with a mucilagenous matter, which afterward hardens into a Membrane, though at length it totally disappears &c. The Small-bones,the Labyrinth,the Canals,the Snail-shel, and other internal parts have the same Figure, and to appearance the same bulk in Infants wch they have in Men, and all that years contribute to them is Strength and Solidity. Haveing given an exact description of the parts of the Ear, he follows it with the use of those parts. M m The (262) The external Ear collects the sounds, and augments the impression by the various reflections the voice undergoes in its passage through the folds of it. The use of the Muscles he acknowleges to be obscure, though he guesses their action may be to contract, or dilate the Concha as the tremblings of the Air are strong, or weak. In the Internal Ear, the Tympanum is stretched and made slack again, by the muscles of the Malleus, in the tension of it both the Muscles act, but in the relaxation onely the external, whose action it is to reduce it from a Concave to a Plain, all which is manifest from the insertion ofthe Muscles: the determination of which action he deduces, not from the will, but from the various dispositions, and appulse of the Objects, as a sharp note is caused by a body whose parts are so disposed as to be capable of very quick Vibrations, which they as suddainly impress on the Air; on the contrary, the flat note proceeds from the flower Stroaks of a body with parts that can onely be so agitated, to which differences the Tympanum readily complies, and does as it were put on their particular Character, this is delivered hence to the Malleus, and so forward, till at last the same fluctuation is caused in the Os Petrosum,and in the Labyrinth. The Aquiduct serves chiefly for the ingress and egress of Air, to and from the Cavity into which it opens, and not to supply the defect of the Tympanum; which he argues from a deaf mans hearing the sound of an Instrument, then, and then onely when he holds the Neck of it between his Teeth. The immediate Organ of hearing he perswades to be the three Semi-circular Canals, they being found in all Animals and in some onely they; as in Birds, and Fishes. From the Communication of the harder portion of the Auditory Nerve with the branches of the Fifth Pair, which are distributed to the Organs of theVoice, proceeds that Sym(263) Sympathy between speaking and hearing; from the Communication of other Nerves follow the Motions of the Body, and even of the Spirits, which often accompany the sounds we hear as in the effects of Musick &c. After the explication of the Structure and use of the Organ, follow the Diseases incident to it, where he observes the method he before made use of, and assigns Diseases to the particular parts in the order they lye, as that the external ear is subject most of all to a Pain which commonly seizes the Concha, and the whole Ductus even to the very Tympanum, and is attended with Punction, Erosion, Tension, a sence of Weight and Pulsation, each of which Symptoms he explains a part, asserting Pain it self to be the effect of the Solution of the Continuity of its parts, and what soever can procure the one, must necessarily produce the other. The second Distemper is the Inflamation of the Ductus. caused either by the obstruction of the Glandules, the Acrimony of the Humours or sometimes by Wormes, which are either generated there Equivocally, or more probably hatched out of Egs of Insects, which flying about in the air in vast numbers may not unlikely lay them in the Ear. The third Disease of this part is its Obstruction, proceeding from different causes, as from bodies accidentally gotten into it, from the abundance and petrifying of the Wax,from a praeternatural Membrane,carneous Excrescences, or swelling of the Glandules. The distempers of the Drum are its Flaccidness,its growing Callous, too great Tension, and breaking, those of the internal Ear are the Caries of the bone, and inflammation of the Membranes; The Nerve is likewise subject to Obstruction, or Compression. Last of all he discourses of the noise in the Ear which is a Symptome attending most of the Diseases of it. The Cases he brings for the confirmation of all this, as likewise the remedies may be first seen in the AuM m 2 (264) Author. This Doctrine is all along illustrated with Figures of the parts in sixteen large Tables, in which each part is represented larger than in nature it is, for the clearer perception of it, as also of its connexion with, and relation to the other parts, he hath given us a new draught of the Basis of the Brain, which he exposes more to view by cutting off the hinder Lobes, and so placeing the Brain, and Cerebellum in the same plain which he looks upon to be absolutely necessary for a true prospect of the Medulla oblongata, and the Origine of all the Nerves which proceed from it. An (265) An Account of Two Letters of Mr. Perault, and Mr. Mariotte, concerning Vision; Printed at Paris 1682. THe Occasion of these Two Letters, was an Observation of Mr. Mariottes, that any Object is not seen when the Species light upon the Basis of the Optic Nerve The Experiment upon which it is grounded is this: take a piece of white paper of Six Inches Diameter, and fasten it upon a dark coloured Wall, that it may be level with your Eyes take another small piece of Paper and place it towards your Left hand, at Two Foot distance from the former, but about Two Inches higher on the Wall: if you then remove to the distance of Eight or Nine feet, and close the left Eye, fixing the Right upon the smaller piece of paper, the Larger paper will quite disappear. It is not at all doubted but the Image which should appear falls just upon the Base of the Optic Nerve, it is also certain that the Retina is to be found in that place, but the Choroid not; which gives a very fair suspition to Mr. Mariotte, that the Choroide is the seat of Vision, and not the Retina. The Novelty of this Opinion hath found many Opposers, and among the rest Monsieur Perault, whose Arguments in the first Letters are in short reduced to Three Heads. 1. If the Choroide were the seat of Vision, its function would be hindred by the branches of Blood Vessels lying in the Retina. 2. The Choroide should not be rugged and unequal; nor hard (266) hard and thick; nor have a slimy or dirtiness upon it, to hinder the Impression of light, nor want a Communication with the Optick Nerve. 3. If the want of Vision in the foregoing Experiment, may be salved by any of the Two probable reasons here offered; then there is no need of discharging the Retina. To the First of these Mr. Mariotte answers; That there are defects in Vision caused by the Blood Vessels in the Retina (and he proves it by a remarkable as well as new Experiment) but these defects are not sensible when we look with both Eyes; for there are no Vessels that lye so near the Axis Opticus as to hinder a direct view; and in an Oblique, one Eye helps the other: it being difficult that the Rays should fall on a like Plane in each Eye. Again these Vessels that are nearest the Axis Opticus, are no bigger than a Hair, or the 240th part of an Inch; and being in the surface of the Retina, are at some distance from the Choroide, so as to let Rays enough pass under, for the distinguishing of Objects not very small. The Vessels also that carry the blood are clear and Pellucid, causing a Refraction that is helpful to Vision. Here also may enter some general considerations as that the impression of a luminous Object remains sometime in the Organ: that some Fibres being strongly moved, others near them are also in motion: that the Eyes are always in motion, and very hard to be fixt in one place, tho it were desired. To the Second head he answers, That the concavity of the Choroid cannot be very rugged; for upon the difsecting an Eye, and removeing the Retina, the surface of the Choroide has reflected an Object as distinctly as a concave Speculum. That there appears no soyls or dirtiness, till the outward Cuticle be broke, and then the Organ is disorderd. As for the thickness of it, he says he finds it in a man but as a sheet of Paper, or the Pia Mater in the brain. That the Blood Vessels are weaved together (267) gether with the Nerves upon which Account there may be as true a sence of Light in them as there is of Pain in the hand (which is also full of Blood Vessels) when it is prickt with the point of a Needle: and perhaps the presence of Veins and Arteries in a member, is absolutely necessary to sensibility. The blackness of the Choroide may make its niceness of sence, as we see Paper blackt easiest fires. He says the Choroide does communicate with the Optick Nerve; by which Nerve he does not understand the Marrow, or inner part of it, which is insensible; but the Membrane (being part of the Pia mater) which incompasses it, and is the true Organ ofsence nor only in the Eye, but also in the Ear: whereas the Marrow of the Nerves contain only spirits and liquour useful to motion. To the Third head, where Mr. Perault gives reasons why there is no Vision upon the Base of the Optick Nerve, as first supposing that Vision is to be made on a smooth surface, the Optick Nerve which is a bundle of Fibres is not smoothe'd at its first entring the Retina, but afterwards when the Fibres are dissolved, and spread into a Coat, as when Rags are made into Paper. Here Mr. Mariotte (If I rightly comprehend him) denyes the Retina's consisting of Fibres, affirming it to have nothing but a Mucousness with some Veins and Arteries. But if I am not mistaken (in an Experiment of Dr.Briggs's, a Retina put into a Glass of fair Water, and drawn about under Water, both for the Expanding and Magnifying it, appeared plainly to have a fibrous texture, like that of a piece of very fine Lawn. In the Second place, Mons r Perault supposes that the Choroide being pierced by the Optick Nerve, there may come a light thro the parts of the Eye, the back way, into the Optick Nerve, which would spoyl the sense of another light coming thro the Pupil. But this Mr. Mariotte will by no means agree too. Historia (268) Historia Naturalis Helvetiae Curiosa, Authore Joh. Jacobo Wagnero M. D. Tiguri, THe Author professes that he undertook to write the Natural History of Switzerland upon the Invitation of my Lord Bacon, and with an Intention thereby to promote a true Experimental Philosophy. He divides his Book into Seven Sections. In the First he lays down the Antient and Modern Limits of Helvetia, together with the general qualities of the Soil. In the Second he speaks generally of the name of the Alps,and their height,difference of seasons and fruitfulness, of Ice remaining intire Two or Three Hundred years, in which some of the Cracks have been observed to be three or four Hundred Ells deep, of the Cold of the Labinae, or Heaps of Snow rolling off the Mountains, and bearing down Woods and Villages: of Caverns, Grottes, and great Receptacles of Waters, of the fall of the Earth or part of the Mountains doing often great mischief. In the Third concerning Waters,he enumerates the Lakes Rivers, Cataracts, Baths hot and cold, Medicinal Waters to drink, Salt and Bituminous Springs, Petrifying waters, Springs rising and intermitting at certain seasons,waters causing a swelling under the throat, miraculous or fabulous waters, among which he speaks particularly of the Lake of Pilate said by Thirty Five several Writers to cause Tempests, rain, Thunder &c. if any thing were cast into it; but the Author from his own experience refutes this Error, and asures us that he found it a very tame Puddle, not deserving to be called a Lake. In (269) In the Fourth; He treats of Living Creatures first of the Men and their Size at present (tho he mentions the Bones formerly found of supposed Giants) of their Courage and Strength, of their Longaevity, Prolifickenss and Ingenuity: Of their Cows and the Advantages they have from them, of the Hair-Balls, found in them, whereof the Author took seven out of one Stomack; os the Spleen of an Ox, weighing Thirty pound. The other Beasts more peculiar to the place are large Staggs, Bears, Wolves, Wild Cats, Beavers, Linx's, Marmots, Martrees, White Hares, White Squirils, White Moles, White Weasels, the Roe-Buck, the Ibex, the Rupicapra in which are found the Balls called Gems-Kugels. Besides these there are sometimes Moschelaphi generated of a Stag and a Cow, and Hippotauri generated of a Bull and a Mare. Of their Birds the chief are the Yellow and Black Eagles, the Vultur, the Hawk, the Falcon, the wild Duck, several sorts of wild Geese, the Pelican, the Cock of the wood, the Wood-Pecker, the Red-leg-Partridge, the Ring Ouzel, the Bittern, the Grouse, the Horn Owl, the Raven, Pyrrhocorax,Merula Torquata, Lagopus a white Bird as big as a large Pidgeon, having the legs feather'd, &c. The Fishes (tho not communicating with the Sea in 500 miles) are Salmon, Barble, Trout, Carp, Perch, Guiniad, Lamprey, Lampern, Mullet, Eelpour, and the greatest of all the Silurus's, &c. The Crefish are some of them red, when they are raw, and some Azure coloured, some of them are not red after boyling,they are taken notice of to have three teeth in the Stomack, and the Males to have a double Penis. Among the Insects are described the Musca Aquatilis aestiva major of Moufet. A long fly with red Wings and the Carabus, there are also mentioned three sorts of Locusts, the Spanishfly, the Evechur, the Oyl Beetle, the Cervus Volans, a sort of Scorpions, not poisonous and without N n Tail (270) Tail, the Pituo campi, and Snow Worms. Serpents there are, no doubt, but the Author takes pains to prove the existence of Dragons, with Feet, and without Feet, Wing'd, and without Wings, as big as a May-pole, but the Authorities are either old Histories, or Stories at the second hand, with few Circumstances. In the Fifth Section he speaks of the Trees &c. As the white and red Fir-tree (from the colour of their Bark) these are the most natural to the Soil, one of which he says grew to the heighth of 160 feet, and 24 feet in the Circumference, the Pinaster,the Pinus Montana tertia, C.B. the Larch_tree, out of which comes the Venice Turpentine, and upon the Trunck whereof grows the Agarick. Here is subjoyned an Alphebetical Catalogue of the of the chief of the Alpine Plants, which are growing in Monte fracto, and other places. The Sixth Section is concerning fossiles where there is a large Catalogue of the less pretious Stones, but among the Stones of value are reckoned the Amethist, the Carbuncle, Cristal, which is denied to be made out of Ice or Snow In enumerating the Lusus Naturae its left doubtful whether the square Stone Dice found about Baden are natural or not. But the natural Urns said to be found neer Geneva and other places, are positively affirmed to have been taken up full of Bones and Ashes. Among concreted juices is reckon'd Sulphur Vivum and flores Sulphuris Nativi found at the Baths, and a true Nitre taken from the Decoction of the fountain of Scolij or Scultini. Golden Sands are found in the River Rhine, the Emma's Urtena, Ursa, Arola, and Addua, Mines of Silver have been discovered in several places, but the digging them has not turned to profit. There are also Mines of Lead and Copper but not so plentiful as those of Iron and Steel. Tho Ships do not use to appear under this head,yet the Author here relates the famous Story of a Ship found 150 foot (271) foot under ground, neer Bern, in the Year 1460, about this there have been many conjectures, particularly, one of Moretus, that the lakes at the heads of several Rivers might formerly have been joyned together, so as to make the way Navigable between Geneva, Bern, and Constance, but this the Author wont believe. The last Section is about Meteors, where is mentioned among other things strange Thunder and Lightning hapning in the Winter time, as well as the Summer, and doing much hurt, as also Hurricanes raising up the water of some lakes like a Pillar into the Clouds, and sometimes pouring it down again at a distance upon the land. N n 2 Johannis (270) IIII. Johannis Jacobi Zimmermanni Cometo-scopia: Or three Astronomical Relations concerning the Comets that have been seen in the years 1680, 1681, 1682, Printed at Stutgard in 4o Anno 1682. T H E Author of these Descriptions divideth every Relation into three parts; first an Historical Account, when and how the Comets appear'd, and in what manner he observ'd them. Secondly an Astronomical Calculation of their places and motions; and thirdly an Astro-Theological Prognostick of their Effects. Concerning the first Comet which was seen Ao 1680, he says it was observed by himself no sooner then the twenty third of November, at St. V. at Five a Clock in the Morning, tho others pretend to have seen it eight days before: nor could he observe it longer then the twenty fifth or twenty fixth of November, by reason that its motion was towards the Sun, and having taken its distance from Some fixt Stars, he found by Trigonometrical Rules that its place was then in 8o 8~ of Scorpius, with South Latitude of 2o 31~. Also by some other Observations communicated to him, the Comet was the sixteenth of Nrvember in 1o degree of Libra Latitude 1/2 degrees Austral: From whence by the Analogy of its Diurnal Motion of five degrees, it should have been the fourteenth of November a little above the least Star in the left Wing of Virgo, as the first term or place of its Appearance. The Prognostick (271) Prognostick which he gives, is grounded upon the Vulgar Supposition that Comets are Signs of such mischiefs and miseries, as happen to men after a dissolute and irregular life, and upon this ground he believeth that the Vision shewn to the Prophet jeremiah Chap. 1. Verse 1 to the 13 was nothing else but the sight of a Comet; And though (as he saith)he doth not like the common Astralogica JugglingPurse (so he calls it) where according to the Division of the heaven in twelve Houses, and the Distribution of the Countries, to the Signs of the Zodiack, the Superstitious Fortune-Tellers do prognosticate things, which have no reason nor grounds neither in nature or experience, yet it seems he cannot forbear himself to make use of the same Trifles, when he says that Virgo being a Sign of Sterility, Libra a Sign of Justice and Death, Scorpio an house of Mars and Sign of Poysons, the Comet must signify War, Famine, Sickness, or a great Plague. As for the Natural cause of this Comet, he thinks, that in the same manner, as the great Conjunction of Planets in Sagitarius did produce a Comet in the year 1663. So by a new Conjunction of Sol, Venus, Mercury and Luna in the same Sign, and in opposition to Jupiter the like Effect might be taken notice of. The second Comet as some Astronomers do believe or rather the first Comet only continued in the same motion (as the Author thinks) did appear again Seventeen days after, that is the ~~ December 1680 but more clear and evidently the ~~ of December when the Author by his Orthogonium (an Instrument made of good strong wood, whose Radius was six foot long) observed for many days the distance of the Comet from several Stars, and found by Calculation its Longitude and Latitude, according as he puts them down in the Table Pag. 93. The last time he made his Observation was the Thirtieth of January, so that the Comet, taking all its duration together, did last about 82 or 84 days: and considering its motion in which it past thro almost nine Signs of the Zodiack, its Angle of Inclination to the Ecliptick, (274) tick in the Morning appearance did not exceed three ~ degrees, but in ~ Vespertina, the Angle was above 28 and almost 29 degrees, its Nodus Australis was according to the Roman Observation in 8 degrees of Libra, but afterwards its Nodus Boreus in 18~ 19~ Sagittary, and by this reason and its Diurnal motion, the Comet passed by the Sun, in a distance of 11 degrees, just when the shortest day was in the year: its Progression being first slow but from the Sun much increased and swifter. Concerning the Theory or figure and line of its motion, he saith, that neither an Arch of a great, nor lesser Circle, nor a strait line will do the business; but rather a certain crooked line turned after an inflection like a Serpent, which never yet was known in any other Comet; or it must be supposed, that two different Comets have appeared, one in the Morning, and another in the Evening,as Mr. Cassini doth conclude, tho the Author himself is perswaded by the Analogy of the motion, quoad Longitudinem, that only one and no more appeared at that time; its Tail being in the Morning directed towards the West.but in the Evening to the East. Also the seventeenth of December its Tail seemed to be divided into two parts, from the bottom to the top, by a black stroak passing through the middle. The length being sometimes of Sixty, and the bredth of four degrees. About the substance and original cause of Comets, he hath no mind to say any thing, as being doubtful what they truely are, the dispure of their Parallax not being yet fully decided, and so of their matter whether ~thereal or Elementar, the Question not resolved. But to show the agreement of this Comet with others that have been observed, he hath composed a convenient Table, containing a List of all Comets, that ever have been described by Historians and Astronomers, putti g down first, the year before or after Christ when they have appeared. 2. The Place or Country where they have been seen 3. The Authors which have made mention of them. 4. The month or time of the year when (275) when they did first arise. 5. The time of the day whether in the Evening or Morning. 6. The name and shape of the Comets. 7. The Situation or to which part of the Horizon their motion did proceed. 8. The whole Arch or Quantity of Degrees, which they did,run through or in want of that, the Sign of the Zodiack to which they have a relation. 9. The Number or Quantity of Days which they did last. 10. The Degre s of their swiftest motion. 11. The Degrees of the length of their Tail. 12. The direction of their Tails, to any part of the Heaven. And 13. The Effects, mischiefs, and strange accidents that have hapned after their Appearance. Among these some have been observed in the shape of the Sun, some of the Moon, and Venus, sometimes there have been three or four Comets together, as in the year 843 and 1529 &c. So that the Number of all in the space of 4000 years does amount to 370 Comets. To which now must be joyned another or the third Comet that was seen in the year 1682 in the month of August: The Author made his first Observation the ~~ day, though at Nuremberg it was discovered the ~~ its place was found the ~~ at night a quarter after one, to be in 11~ 29~ Leonis, with North Latitude of 26~ 10~, its Tail being almost fourteen degrees long, its Head like a Star of the ~ Magnitude, the Angle of Inclination to the Ecliptick of 2 ~ ~ degrees. Its motion was the swiftest in limite maxime Boreo, so that every day it went forwards seven degrees, the Tail and Head had also the greatest brightness at that time. From whence the Motion, Tail and Light seemed to decrease proportionally, till the ~ of September, which was the last day it could be seen by the Author, having run over 94 degres in twenty four days. The line of Direction was in Opposition to the Sun as usually it is in Comets. The Prognostications which after the Description of the second and this third Comet, the Author hath added, are upon the same grounds as the former, drawn out of the Nature of Hieroglyphical Signs and Images, (274) ges, that commonly are to been in the Celestial Globes. He explains this among other Questions, whether Comets if they be Natural Bodies that have their regular motions like other Stars, (so that the time of their appearance may be predicted) yet their signification and influence may not have the same force as if they were some extraordinary products of Nature; and he concludeth that they may serve like an Alarm in a Clock work, to stir up the world to a better contemplation of Heaven. OXFORD, Printed by LEONARD LICHFIELD, Printer to the University, and are to be sold by Hen. Rogers, at the Sign of the Bible in Westminster Hall, and Sam. Smith at the Princes-Arms in St. Pauls Church-yard. 1683. 