A Confirmation Of the Experiments mentioned in Numb. 27. to have been made by Signor Fracassati in Italy, by injecting Acid Liquors into Blood. THe Honourable Robert Boyle having seen the particulars inserted in Numb. 27. concerning some Experiments made by Signor Fracassati, and recollecting what himself had experimented of that nature several years ago, was pleased to give to the Publisher the following Information about it, by the favour of a Letter, written to him from Oxford, Octob. 19. 1667. viz. SIR, I Hinted to you in my last something about the Original of the Experiments made in Italy, by injecting Acid Liquors into Blood: To explain which, I shall now tell you, That about this time three years* I mentioned at Gresham Colledge to the Royal Society, an odd Experiment I had formerly made (not by Chance, but DeLII 2 sign) * The Journals of the Royal Society being looked into by the Publisher (who, by the honour of his Relation to that Illustrious Body, hath the advantage of perusing them, as he by his Office hath the care of seeing them faithfully managed) do fully agree with the Affirmation of this Noble Person, as well in the circumstance of the Time, as the Substance of the Matter in question; it being in the Month of December, of An 1664. when, what is now alledged in this Letter, was publickly related by its Author. (552) sign) upon Blood yet warm, as it came from the Animal, viz. That by putting into it a little Aqua-fortis, or Oyl of Vitriol, or Spirit of Salt, (these being the most usual Acid Menstruums) the Blood not only would presently lose its pure colour, and become of a dirty one, but in a trice be also coagulated; whereas if some fine Urinous Spirit, abounding in Volatil Salt, such as the Spirit of Sal Armoniack, were mingled with the warm Blood, it would not only not curdle it, or imbase its Colour, but make it look rather more florid than before, and both keep it fluid, and preserve it from putrefaction for a long time. This Experiment I devis'd, among other things, to shew the Amicableness of Volatil Spirits to the Blood. And I remember, 'twas so much taken notice of, that some very inquisitive Members of the Society came presently to me, and desired me to acquaint them more particularly with it; which I readily did, though afterwards I made some further Observations about the same Experiments, that I had no occasion to relate. This having been so publickly done, though I shall not say, that Signor Fracassati may not have hit, as well as I, upon the Experiments published in his Name, yet there is so little difference between the warm Blood of an Animal out of his Veins and in them, that'tis not very improbable, that he may have had some imperfect Rumour of our Experiment without knowing whence it came, and so may, without any disingenuity,have thence taken a hint to make and publish what now is English'd in the Transactions. If it be thought fit, that any mention be made of what I related so long since, I think I can send you some other Circumstances belonging to it: For I remember, I tried it with other Liquors (as Spirit of Wine, Oyl of Tartar, Oyl of Turpentine) and I think also I can send you some Remarks upon the Colour of the upper part of the Blood. And I shall on this occasion add, in reference to Anatomical matters in general, that after I saw how favourably the usefulness of Experimental Philosophy was receiv'd, I was invited to inlarge it in another Edition; and for that, I provided divers Anatomical as well as other Experiments, and designed many more, so that I have by me divers things that would not, perhaps, be unwelcome to Anatomists, &c. 