VII. Extract of several Letters and Certificates sent to his Majesty the King of Great Britain, concerning a very particular Naevus Maternus, or Mole. Communicated by Dr. Steigertahl, Physician to his Majesty, F. R. S. J E R E M I A Rudolph von Walthausen, a Captain of the Garrison at Danneberg, near Lunebourg, was born October 24, 1680, with a very singular Mole upon his right Arm, Shoulder, and Hind-part of his Side, not unlike the Branch of a Vine, with its Leaves and Grapes. It hath been affirm'd and attested both by the Deceas'd himself, and several of his Relations and Friends, that his Mother, when big with Child, had an earnest Desire for Grapes, and impatient to stay, till they were full ripe, went down into the Garden to pull off some of those unripe; whereupon it happen'd, that a whole Branch with its Leaves and Grapes suddenly fell down upon C c c her (348) her right Arm, which Accident much frighten'd her. Some Time after she was brought to Bed, and the Child was observ'd to have several reddish or bluish Spots, beginning from behind his Shoulder, and from thence running over the same, down the right Arm to the Fingers. The Captain's whole right Side was bigger than the Left by an Inch and upwards, and so continu'd to his Death. The Veins of the right Arm were much rais'd, lying almost immediately under the Cuticula, which made them very conspicuous, they were, besides, very much distended, chiefly between the Elbow and Hand, where they were almost as big as a Man's Thumb. On the Inside of the fore Finger the Vein was extended into a small Tumour, of a reddish, or purple blue Colour, about the bigness of a Nutmeg, corrugated with some lenticular Protuberances, which made it in some measure resemble a Grape. The like Tumours, but not so big, were observ'd in several other Parts of the Arm, in the Spring Time; and as they throught, when the Sap began to enter the Vines, as also when the Vines flower'd, and in Autumn, when the Wine was fermenting, the Captain was taken ill with violent and itching Pains in the affected Arm for some Days. The whole right Side then swell'd more than usual, and the Veins and Tumours above-mention'd were so distended with Blood, that at last, a serous Matter was forc'd out of the Pores of the said Tumours, which as it gave the Patient some Relief, so he promoted it, by scraping the Tumours with the Edge of a Penknife. If the Captain held up his affected Arm, the Running of the Blood backwards in the distended Veins was very visible. If he held his Arm down again, the Blood return'd with some Noise, and sensibly fill'd up again the vessels, which by the preceding (349) ceding Action had been emptied. For this Reason, the Captain, when he was a Bed, was oblig'd to lay his Arm upwards. In February last, the Captain was again taken ill with violent Pains, and a strong sensible Pushing of the Blood into the affected Arm; for both which, they being not only more violent, but continuing longer than usual, he was advis'd to be let Blood on his left Arm; as this did not immediately relieve him, they applied at his Desire externally Epithemata of Plants boil'd in Wine; this eas'd his Pains, and made him somewhat more quiet, so that he could walk about the House, but he nevertheless continu'd restless for some Days, and was~ on Saturday the 17th of February, S. N. early in the Morning, seiz'd with a violent Oppression of his Breast, which in a few Minutes made an End of his Life. The Surgeon, then present, did not bleed him, but gave him only some Spoonfuls of a strong Cordial Mixture, which he just happen'd to have about him, and of which the Patient, with much Difficulty, could swallow but a small Part. He was, when he died, 44 Years, 3 Months, and 24 Days old; he was otherways a strong robust Man, much given to Fatigue, and discharg'd with great Bravery all the Duties of a good Soldier, as appear'd by his Conduct throughout the last War. VIII. An 