11J) V. Observations of a Comet, with Remarks on the ConstructionZ o its dferent Parts. By William Herschel, LL. D. F. R. S. Read December l9, i8i. THE comet which has lately visited the solar system has moved in an orbit very favourably situated for, astronomical observations. I have availed myself of this circumstance, and have examined all the parts of it with a scrutinizing attention. by telescopes of every degree of requisite light, distinctness, and power. The observations I have made have been so numerous, and so often repeated, that I shall only give a selection of such as were made under the most favourable circumstances, and which will serve to ascertain the most interesting particulars relating to the construction of the comet. As my attention in these observations were every night directed to as many particulars as could be invesQi ated, it wvill be most convenient to assort together those wihich belon g tor the samfe object-; and in the following arrangement I shall begin with the principal part, Whici is _Te planetaiy Body in' the Head of thf G Co;et. By directinsg a telescope to that part of the ad there with the nalked -eye I saw a luminous aplpearaznce not unlIP e at star; I found that this spot, w-hNich perhps some. astronomers may call a nucleus, wtas Only the head of the connet; blt th"t withi'n 0) 2 i 6 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, its densest light there was an extremely small bright point, entirely distiuct from the surrounding glare. I examined this point with my go fet, large lo feet, common 10 feet and also with a 7 feet telescope ; and with every one of these instruments I ascertained the reality of its existence. At the very first sight of it, I judged it to be much smaller than the, little planetary disk in the head of tie comet of the year 1807; but as we are well assured that if aiv solidity resembling that of the planets be contained in the comiet, it must be looked for in this bright point; I have called it the planetary body; in order to distinguish it from what to the naked eye or in small telescopes appeared to be a nucleus, but which in, fact was this little body with its surrounding light or head seen together as one object. With a new io feet mirror of extraordinary distinctness, I examined the. bright point every fine evening, and found that although its contour was certainly not otherwise than round, I could but very seldom perceive it definedly to be so. As hitherto I had only used moderate magnifiers from ioo to i6o, because they gave a considerable brightness to the point, it occurred to me that, higher powers might be required to increase its apparent magnitude;accordingly the i9th of October, having prepared magnifiers of 169, 240, 300, 400s and 600, I viewed the bright point successively with these powers. With 1i6 it appeared to be about the size of a globule which in the morning I had seen 'in the same telescope and with the same magnifier, and which by geometrical calculation subtended an angle of xL"39. I suspected that this apparent size of the bright point was with Remia rks on the Construction of its dfferent Parts. 117 only such as will spuriously arise from every small star-like appearance; and this was fully confirmed when I examined it with 2407 for by this its magnitude was not increased; which not only proved that my power was not sufficient to reach the real diameter of the object, but that the light of this point was, like that of small stars, sufficiently intense to bear being much magnified. I viewed it next with 3oo, and here again I could perceive no increase of size. When I examined the point with 400, it appeared to me somewhat larger than with zoo; I saw it indeed rather better than with a lower power, and had reason to believe that itA real diameter was now within reach of my magnifiers. Cunrosity induced me to view it in the 7 fet telescope with a power of 460; and notwithstanding the inferior quantity of light of this instrument, the magnitude was fully sufficient to show that the increase of size in this telescope agreed wvith that in the lo feet. Returning again to the latter I examined the bright point with 6ao and saw it now so much better than with 400, that I could keep it steadily in sight while it passed the field of view of the eye-glass, With this power I compared its appearance to the size of several globules, that have been examined with the same telescope and magnifier, and by estimation I judged it to be visibly smaller than one of i",o6 in diameter, and rather larger than another of o"',68. It should be noticed that I viewed the globules, which were of sealing wax, without sunshine, in the morning after the observation as well as the morning before.; referring in one 118 Dr. (HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, case the bright point to the globules, and in the other the globules to the bright point. Thze apparent a id real Magnitzude of the planetary Body. Th e size of the bright point being much more like the smallest of the two globules, I shall add one quarter of their difference to o",68, and assuie the sum, which is o"',775 as the apparent diameter of the lanetary disk. Then by a calculation from some corrected elements of the comet's orbit, which though not very accurate, are however sufficiently so for my purpose, I find that the distance of the comet fromn the earth at the time of observation, was nearly 1 4 millions of miles ; from which it follows that the bright point, or what we may admit to be the solid or planetary body of the comet, is about 42 miles in diameter. The Eccentricity and Coloir of the planetary Body. The situation of the bright point was not in the middle of the head, but w ~as more or less eccentric at different times. ittle i6th of October that part of the head, which was towards the sun was a little brighter and broader than that towharch the tail, so that the planetary disk or point was a little, eccenitric. TJhe 17th I found its situation to be a little beyond the centre, reckoning the distance in the direction of a line drawn from the stun through the cenitre of the head. The 4th of November it was more eccentric thani I had ever seen it before.* A similar method was used with the comet of 1807. See Phil. Trans. for x8o8, page v4s. wi/i Remarks on thwe osoitiuclon of its dafrrent Parts. 1 19 Nov. io, I found no alteration in the eccentricity9-since the last observation. The colour of tile planetary disk was of a pale ruddy tint, ,like that of stich equally small stars as are inclited to red; The ilium n)atiOn of theplanetary Body. The smallness of the disk, even when most magnified, rendered any determinati n of its shape precarious; however had it been otherwise than round, it might probably hlave been perceived; the phasis of its illumination at the time of observation being to a full disk as 1,6 to 2. From this as well as from the high magnifying power, which a point so faint could not have borne with advantage, had it shone by reflected light, we may infer that it was visible by rays emitted from its own body-*; The Head of the Comet. It has already been noticed that the brightest part of the" comet seen by the naked eye, appeared to contain a small starlike nucleus. When this was viewed in a night glass, or finder, magnifying only 6 or 8 timies, it might still have been miss taken for one; but when I applied a higher power, such as from 6o to 10o, it retained no longer this deceptive appearance; which evidently arises from an accumulationz of light,* On the subject of the nature of the light by which we see this comet, I may refer to what has been said in my paper of observations on that of the year I807. Those who wish also to consult the opinion of an eminent philosopher, whose valuable works on meteorological subjects are well known, will find it expressed at large in a letter from Mr. DE Lu c, addressed to Mr. BoDE, SO far back as the year I 799, andrprinted in Mr. NicHOLSON'S Journal, published the ist of March 1809. 120 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, condensed into the small compass of a few minutes; and which of course will vanish when diluted by magnifying. Sept. 2, I saw the comet at Glasgow, in a 14 feet Newton nian reflector; but being very low, the moon up, and the atmosphere hazy, it appeared only like a very brilliant nebula, gradually brighter in a large place about the middle. The 9th and ioth of September at Alnwick, I viewed it with a fine achromatic telescope, and found that, when magnified about 65 times, the planetary disk-like appearance seen with the naked eye, was transformed into a bright cometic nebula, in which, with this power, no nucleus could be perceived. The 18th of September the star-like object in my large lo feet reflector, when magnified i1o times, had the appearance of a fine globular, lumininous nebula; it seemed to be about 5 or 6 minutes in diameter, of which one or two minutes about the centre were nearly of equal brightness. Tbe small lo feet showed it in, the same manner. In all my instruments this bright appearance was equally transformed into a brilliant head of the comet, with this difference, thatfwhen high powers were applied, the central illu mination which moderately magnified, was pretty uniform, became diluted into a gradual decrease from the middle towards the outside' losing itself by imperceptible degrees, especially towards the sides and following parts, into a darkish space, which from observations that will be given hereafter, I take to be a cometic atmosphere. The Colour and Eccentricity of the Light of the Head. The colour of the head being very remarkable, I examined it with all mny different telescopes; and in every one of them, with Remarks 6n the Construction of its dtYeren t Parts. i t its light appeared to be greenish, or bluish green. Its appearance was certainly very peculiar. The disposition of the light of the head was likewise accormpanied with some remarkable circumstances; for notwith.. standing a general accumulation about the middle, there seemed to be a -greater share of it towards the sun, than a portion in that situation of the circumference was entitled to, had it been uniformly arranged;i and if .we look upon the head as a coma to the planetary point, the eccentricity of its light will be still more evident; for this point was constantly more or less farther from the sun than the middle of the greatest brightness of the light surrounding it. The eccentricity of the head was indeed so considerable, that considerinog the difl ficulty of seeing the point, it might easily have escaped the notice of one who looked for it in the centre of the head. Th e alpparent and real AMagil udes of the HIead. With an intention to ascertain the dimensions of the various parts of the cornet, I viewed the head in the 7, 1o, and 20 feet telescopes, and estimated its size by the proportion it bore to the known fields of the eye-glasses that were used. I shall only mention two estimations: September 29, the lo feet gave its apparent diameter 3' a"". With the 20 feet Oct. 6, it was 3' 45". From a calculati.. i of the 2o feet measure, which I prefer, it appears that the real diameter of the head at this time was about 1 27 thousand miles. MDCCCXI. R Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, A transparent and elastic Atmosphere about the Head. In every instrument through which I have examined the cornet, I perceived a comparatively very faint or rather darkish interval surrounding the head, wherein the gradually diminishing light of the central brightness was lost. This can only be accounted for by admitting a transparent elastic atmosphere to envelope the head of the comet. Its transparency I had an opportunity of ascertaining the i8th of September, when I saw three very small stars of different magnitudes within the compass of it; and its elasticity may be inferred from the circular form under which it was always seen. For being surrounded by a certain bright equidistant envelope, we can only account for the equality of the distance by admitting the interval between the envelope and the head of the comet to be filled with an elastic atmospherical fluid. The Extent of the cometic Atnosphere. When I examined the comet in the 2o feet telescope the 6th of October, the circular darkish space, which surrounded the brightness, just filled the field of the eye-glass-; which gives its apparent diameter IN minutes. This atmosphere was therefore mnore than 5O7 thousand miles in diameter; but its real extent of which, as will be seen, we can have no obser.vation, must far exceed the above calculated dimensions. The bright Envelope of the cometic Atmosphere. When I observed the comet at Alnwick in an achromatic refractor with a magnifyinag power of 65, I perceived that the head of it was partly surrounded by a train of light, which with Remarks on the Construction of its dfferent Parts. 1ft was kept at some considerable distance by an interval of comin parative darkness; and from its-concentric figure I call this light an envelope, The Figure, Colour, and Magnitude of the Envelope. On viewing this envelope in telescopes that magnify no nore than about 16 times, or in finders and night glasses with still lower powers, I found that its shape, as far as it extended, was apparently circular; but that in its course it did not reach quite half w ay round the head of the comet. A little before it came so far it divided itself into two streams, one passing by each side of the head. The colour of the envelope in my 7, 1o, and 20 feet telex scopes had a strong yellowish cast, and formed a striking contrast with the greenish tint of the head. The distance of the outside of the envelope from the centre of the head, in the direction of a line drawn from it to the sun, was about sc" and supposing it to have extended side ways, without increase of distance as far as a semi-circle, this would give its diameter about 19 minutes. By computation therefore its real diameter must have exceeded 643 thousand miles. The Tail of the Comet. The most brilliant phenomenon that accompanies a comet is the streanm of light which we call the tail. Its length is well known to be variable, but the measures or estimations of its extent cannot be expected to be very consistent from several causes foreign to its actual chanae. The 2d of Septemi'ber, the moon being up, the comelt very low, and the atmosphere hazy, I could perceive no tail. R2 124 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, The 9th, it had a very conspicuous one, about 9 or 1o degrees in length. On the i8th, the length was i1 or 12 degrees. The 6tih of Octobar it was 9S degrees. The 12th I estimated it to be only 17 degrees long. The 14f11 it appeared to extend to 17degrees. The i~th, by very careful attention, and in a very clear at mosphere, I found the tail to cover a space of 23jdegrees in length. The greatest real Length of the Tail. Of the two observations which were made of the greatest length of the tail of the comet, I prefer that of the i5th of October, on account of the clearness of the night. The apparent length being ?3degrees, its real extent taking into the calculation the oblique position in which we saw it, must have been upwards of zoo millions of miles. The Breadth of the Tail. The variations in the breadth of the tail will hardly admit of any description; the scattered light of the sides being generally lost by its faintness in such a manner as to render its termination very doubtful. The 12th of October its breadth in the broadest part was 6j degrees, and about 5 or 6 degrees from the head it began to, be a little contracted. The ,i5th, it was nearly of the same breadth about the middle of its length. By calculating from the observation of the 12th, we find that the real breadth of the tail on that day was nearly j5 mil. lions of miles. with Remarks on the Construction of its diferent Parts. 125 The Curvature of the Tail. The shape of the tail with respect to its curvature is generally considered only as it relates to the direction of the motion of the comet; it is nevertheless subject to variations arising from causes that will be noticed in the next article, but which are not taken into the account of the following observations. The 9th and loth of Septembher the curvature of the tail was very considerable. The 18th, I remarked, that towards the end of the tail its curvature had the appearance as if, with respect to the motion of the comet, that part of the tail were left a little behind the head. The 17th of October the tail appeared to be more curved than it had been at any time before. Dec. 2, the flexure of the curvature of the tail, contrary to its former direction, was convex on the following side. The general Appearance of the Tail. On account of the great length and breadth of the tail of the comet, a night glass with a large field of view is the most proper instrument for examining its appearance. Mine takes in 4' 4 1'. By viewing the comet with this glass I found the tail to be Inclosed at the sides by the two streams which I have described as the continuation of the bright arch, or envelope surrounding the head. Sept. 18, I observed that the two streams or branches arising from the sides of the head, scattered a considerable portion of their light as they proceeded towards the end of the tail, 126 Dr. HERSCHEL S Observations of a Comet, and were at last so much diluted that the whole of the farthest part of the tail, contained only scattered light. Oct. i, I remarked that the two streams remained sufficiently condensed in their diverging course to be distinguished for a length of about six degrees, after which their scattered light began to be pretty equally spread over the tail. Oct. Le. The preceding branch of the tail was 79 iin length. The following was only 41 4I'; which caused the appearance of an irregular curvature. Nov. 3. The two, branches were nearly of an equal length. Nov. B. The length of the preceding stream was ? : that of the following about 4] 41'. Nov. 9. The two branches might still be seen to extend full 4 degrees, but their light was much scattered. Nov. ic. The preceding branch was Ri G'6 long; the folb lowing one only t 3 it; the preceding one was also fuller and broader. In the course of theie obseirvations I attended also to the appearance of the nebulosity of the tail. Sept. i8. The appearance of the nebulosity, examined with a lo feet reflector, perfectly resembled the milky nebulosity of the nebula in the constellation of Orion, in places where the brightness of the one wxas equal to that of the other. Nov. 9. The tail of the comet being very near the milkyway, the appearance of the one compared to that of the other, in places where no stars can be seen in the miiky-way, was perfectly alike. with Renarks on the Construction of itsdfrent Parts. 'g The Return of the Comet to the nebulous Appearance. From the observations of the decreasing length of the tail, the diminution of brightness and increased scattering of the streams, and from the gradually fainter appearance of the transparent atmosphere, brought on by the contraction and more scattered condition of the envelope, I had reason to suppose that all the still visible cometic. phenomena of planetary body, head, atmosphere envelope, and tail, would soon be reduced to the semblance of a common globular nebular; not fromn the in-a crease of the distance of the comet, which could only occasion an alteration in the apparent magnitude of the several parts, but by the actual physical changes which I observed in the construction of the comet. The gradual vanishing of the planetary, Body. Nov. 4. io feet reflector. I saw the planetary disk with e89. It was rather more eccentric than usual. Nov. 9, I saw it imperfectly with 169. It was more visible with 240; but the nebulosity of the envelope overpowered its light already so much that no good observations could be made of it. Nov. lo. Large io feet. I had a glimpse of the disk and its eccentricity, Nov. 13, I tried all magnifiers, but could no longer perceive the planetary body. 128 Dr. HERSCH EL SObservations o mf a crnet, The Disappearance of the transparent Part of the Atmosphere under the Cover of the scattered Light of the contracted Enves lope. Nov. 4. In the night-glass, that part of the atmosphere which used to separate the envelope from the head, could no longer be distinguished. In the l o feet reflector, with a large double eye-glass, I found the envelope drawn nearer to the head, its central dis.tance at the vertex being less than 7' 10"; and the atmosphere was alm'ost involved in the scattered haziness of the streams. Nov. A. The envelope was still disengaged from the head, but much scattered light had nearly effaced the cometic atmo -splhere on the side towards the sun. Nov. 9. The atmosphere was nearly covered by the ape proximation, or scattering light, of the envelope. Its vertical distance was 5' 45". Nov. io. The envelope could only be distinguished from lthe head by a small remaining darkish space, in which the 2tmosphere might still be seen. The vertical distance of the envelope was 4' 46". Nov. 13. The atmosphere was almost effaced by scattered light towards the sun, but on the opposite side it was darker, or ratner more transparent. Nov. 14, vS, and iG. The atmosphere. was gradually more -covered in. Nov. 19. I found in the io feet telescope, the envelope so broad anid scattered as to leave no room for seeing the atmosphere; and the cornet seemed to be fast returning to the niere appearance of a nebula, Wit/i Remzarks on the Consiruction of its dieren t Parts. ieg Nov. 24. The envelope was turned into haziness; and oi thei side towards the stin, the cornet had already the appearance of a globular nebula, with a faint hazy border. Dec. 2. The haziness of the border was of a different colour from the light of the head, which preserved its former greenish appearance. Dec. 9. The envelope, which had been turned into a hazy border of light, in which state I saw it again the 5th, was very unexpectedly renewed. It was however very narrow and much fainter than it used to be. By four measures I found its distance from the centre of the head t6 be about 4. minutes. Dec. 14. The narrow faint envelope of the 9th existed no longer. If the scattered light near the head should not be raised again, all observations of the atmnosp'here must be at an end; for the space beyond this light being equally clear, we have nothing left to point out any extent that might be supposed to contain a transparent elastic fluid, notwithstanding it should remain in its former situation. Unconmmon Appearances in the Dissolution of the Envelope. Nov. 4. io feet. The envelope was double towards the sun, and divided itself at each side into three streams; the outside ones being very faint, and of no great length. Nov. 5. On the preceding side the envelope was very faintly accompanied by an outer one, but not on the following ,ide. Nov. 13. On the following side the envelope diverged into three streams, the two outside ones being very faint and nai'row; but on the preceding side there was but one additional MDCCCXII. S 130 ~Dr. HERSCHEL's Observations of a Comet, streamnlet, which was at the distance of the outermost one of the opposite side. Nov. 14. On the preceding sidethere was a very faint outward stream and on the following side there was a still fainter and shorter stream, also on the outside. Dcc. 14. rThere was only one short and faint outside stream at the preceding side. Uncommon Parnz'ons hn t1he Length of the Streams. It has already been mentioned, that the streams or branches were subject to a considerable difference in their respective lengths; in order if possible to discover the cause of the observed changes, I continued my observations of them. Oct. 15 and Nov. A and io, the preceding branch was the longest. The 3d and 9th of November the branches were of equal length. The i3tb, the following was 4d 6' long, the preceding only o 31. The i4ath. They were both of the equal length of about o1, The l5th. The preceding branch was 30 81' long, the following 4 6"The i6th. The preceding was 3t 13' long, the following 3 48 The 19th. The branches were equal, and about 4023k long. Dec. 2. The branches were nearly equal and about 30 12 long; they joined more to the sides than the vertex, and had, lost their former vivid appearance; their colour being changed nto that of scattered light. with Remarks on the Consltrucaion of its dferent Parts. ii The 9th and iath. The branches were already so mauch scattered that observations of them could no longer be macde with any accuracy. Alterations in the Angle of the Direction of the Envelope. NOv. 4. io feet reflector. Large double eye-glass. The streams departed from their source in a greater angle of divergence. This probably arose from a contraction of the en-. velope towards the sun, but not about the root of the streams, where it remained extended as before. Nov. Al. io feet. The angle of the blending of the envelope at its vertex was considerably enlarged. In thile nightglass the divergence of the streams themselves was certainly not increased. Nov. 24. 10 feet. The divergence of the light, which may still be called the envelope, although no longer to be distint guished from the head, was from 6o to 65 degrees; but 'll the night-glass, the branches which were hardly to be seen were closer together than formerly. The additional faint duplicates of the envelope Nov 4, ,) 13, and 14 always departed fromn the vertex in ace angle considers ably greater than the permanent interior streams, The Shortening of the Tail. The 5th of November, the air being very clear, I found, when attending to the tail of the comet, that its length was much reduced; its utmost extent not exceeding 12den grees. The 9th, it was lo degrees long. The i5th. In the night glass the tail wvas mulch shortened. 132Dr. IhRSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, The i6th. With the naked eye the tail was nearly 7-. degrees long. The Ilth. Its length was about 60 lot. Dec. 2. The tail w as hardly 5 degrees long and of a very feeble light. The 9th, the length of the tail was not materially altered. The 14th, it still remained as before, but the end of it was much fainter. Increasing Darkness between the Streams that inclose the Tail. The 4th of November the darkness near the head'on the side from the sun. was grown more conspicuous, and much less filled up with scattered light. The Sth, the darkness of the atmosphere on the side opposite the sun was stronger than on, the sun side. The toth. A considerable darkness prevailed between th'e twobranches of the tail. The 14th. In the tail close to the head, there was a lar4ge space almost free from scattered light; where the small stars of the milkywvay are as brioht as if nothinty h-ad intercepted their light. The i6th. The space b&eween the streams was of a considerable darkl nss. The 9th. I0o et reflector. The darkness between the streams was increased. Dec. g. The space close to the head on the side from the sun was quite dark, or rather-transparent. Th i4th. Many small stars of the miiky-way were in the dark inhterval of the ta'l close to the head of the comets with Remarks on Ake Consirultion -f its d oett Paris. ia Of ,the real Construction of the Comet, and its varzios P'ars. Hitherto I have only related the appecarances of thme sevteral parts of the comet, in order to deterrmine their linear extmait;, but thie observations which are now before us, 'ontain facts that will allow me also to ascertain the construction of the(, comet and its various parts in their solid dimensions. From the laws of gravitation we might be allowed to cone dude that the planetary body containing the solid matter of the comet must be sphericall; but actual observation will furnish a more substantial argument; for in no part of the long, geocentric path described by the comet, did I see its little disk otherwise than round; whereas it would not have preserved this appearance, if its construction were not spherical. If That has been said in my last paper, when treating of round nebulae be remembered, the head of the present comet, which by observation appeared round like a nebula, cannot be supposed to be of any other than :a spherical construction. With my collection of round nebube the arguments, however; which proved their globular form, rested only, though very soundly, upion the doctrine of chances, and the known effects of 'gravitation but here, on the contrary, while nebula, remain in their places, the geocentric position of the head of the tcomet has tindergopne a change amounting to a whole quadrant; in all which time I have observed it to retain its round.. ness without any: visible alteration; from which it necessarily follows that its form is globular. With~regard to its transparent cometic atmosphere, we have not only the constant observations of its roundness, during the abovemnentioned long period of the comet's motion, to. Dr. IkIERsCEL S Observations of a Coret, prove it to be spherical; lbut in addition to this, I have already shown that it is of an elastic nature, for which reason alone, had we no other, its globular figure could not be doubted. A most singular circumstance., which however miutst cern tainaly be admitted, is, that the constant appearance of the bright envelope, with its two opposite diverging branches can arise from no other figure than that of an inverted hollow cone, terminating at its vertex in an equally hollow cap, of nearly a hemispherical construction; nor can the sides or caps of this hollow cone be of any considerable thickness. The proof of this assigned construction is, that the bright envelope has constantly been seen in my observation as being every where nearly equidistant from the transparent atmosphere; now if that part of it which in a semi-circular form surrounds the comet, on the side exposed to the sun, were not hemispherical, but had the shape of a certain portion of a ring, like that which we see about the planet Saturn, it must have been gradually transformed from the appearance of a semicircle into that of a straight line, during the time that we have seen it in all the various aspects presented to us by a geocen. tric motion of the comet, amounting to 90 degrees. That this hemispherical cap is comparatively thin, is proved from the darkness and transparency of that part of the atmosphere which it covers; for had the curtain of light, which was drawn over it, been of any great thickness, the scattered rays of its lustre would have taken away the appearance of this darkness; nor would the atmosphere have remained sufficiently transparent for us to see extremely small stars through it. It remains now only to account for the semi-circular i~tA,.XTmdY. 1\IDCC8(iX1LItaif Il vi2<.23 dv a, r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -------/ ---X with Remarks on the Construction oJ its dgerent Parts. 13AS appearance of the bright envelope; but this, it will be seen, is the immediate consequence of the great depth of light near the circumference, contrasted with its comparative thinness towards the centre. The 6th of October, for instance, the radius of the envelope was 9' 3o" on the outside, and 7' 3o" on the inside; and as the greatest brightness was rather nearer to the outside, we may suppose its radius to have been about 8'3. Then if we compute the depth of the luminous matter at this distance from the centre, we find that it could not be less than 248 thousand miles; whereas in the place where the atmosphere was darkest, its thickness would be only about 50 thousand; so that a superior intensity of light in the ratio of about S to i, could not fail to produce the remarkable appearance of a bright semicircle, enveloping the head of the cornet at the distance at which it was observed.* I have entered so fully into the formation of the envelope, as the argument, by which its construction has been analysed, will completely explain the appearance of the streams of light inclosing the tail of the comet, and indeed its whole construction. The luminous matter as it arises from the envelope, of which it is a continuation, is thrown a little outwards, and assumes the appearance of twco diverging bright stre as or branches;, but if the source from wh ich they rise be the circular rilm of From the measure of the envelope, whose diameter the 6th of October was 643032 miles, we have the radius a b, Plate III, 32i5i6. Then if ad he 25000, we find the angle bac, of which ac is cosine 220 441 37"; and the sine b ca which is the depth, will be to the versed sine cd, which is the thickness, as 4,972 to i. And if ad is 9' 30",, the greatest brightness which is at a will give the distance ac equal to 8' 45 '07. This walculitivu blint made fhr that part wbich is convex towards us) the addition of the concave opposite side will double the dimensions of the Cepth and thickness, D $0 lr. H~RSCYL's Observft'ions of a Cornet, an hemispherical hollow shell, the luminous matter in its die verging progress upwards can only form a hollov cone ; and the appearance of the two bright streams inclosing the tail, after what has been said of the envelope, will want no farther explanation. Add to this that, having actually seen these brilliant streams remain at the borders of the tail in the same diverging situation during a motion of the comet through more than i30 degrees, the hollolw conical form of the comet's tail is in fact established aby observation. The feebler light of the tail betwveeni its branches is sufficiently accounted for by the thinness of the luminous matter of the hollow cone through which we look towards the middle of the tail compared with its great depth about the sides; and indeed the comparative darkness of the inside of the cone and transparency of the atmosphere seen through the envelope, bear witness to their hollow construction; for, were these parts solid, both the cone and the hemispherical termination of it must have been much brighter in the middle than towards the circumference, which is contrary to observation. Of the solar Agency in the Production of Cometic Phenomena. As we are now in a great measure acquainted with the phy, sical construction of the different parts of the present comet, and have seen many successive alterations that have happened in their arrangement, it may possibly be within our reach to assign the probable manner in which-the action of such agents as we are acquainted with has produced the. phenomena we have observed. zut 'rnarks on ti e Construction of its dferent Parts. i In its approach to a perihelion, a comet becomes exposed to the action of the solar rays, wxich, we know, are capable of producing light, heat, and chemical effcts. That their infl uence on the present comet has caused an expansion, and decomposition of the cometic matter, we have expe-rienced in the growing condition of the tail and shining quality of its light, wvnhich seems to be of a phosphoric nature. The way by which these eects have been produced many be supposed to be as follows. The matter contained in the icead of the co Iet would b e edilated by the action of the sun, but chiefly in that hemisphere of it which is i'm niately exposed to the solar nfluence; and being moose increased in this direction than on the opposite side, it would become eccentric, when re f rred to the situation of the body of the comet; but as the head is wvhat draws our greatest attention, on acco6nt of its brightness, the little pla~netary body would a pear to be in tie eccentic situation in which we have seen it. Now, as from observed phenomena, we have good reason to believe the comet to be surrounded byr a very extensive, transparent, elastic atmosphere; the nebulous mitter, which probably, when the comet is at a distance from the perihfiio , is gathered about the head in a spherical forti, would on its xpproach to tlh sun be greatly rarefied, and rise in the cometic atmosphere till it came to a certain level, wher it could re-main susp ended, for some time, exposed to the continued action of the sun. In this situation we have had an opportunity of seeing the transparent atmosphere, wlich, but for the suspension of the nebulous matter, wve might never have di covered; and into DCCCXII. T 13S8 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a Comet, deed, how far it may extend beyond the region which, contained the shining substance, we can have no observation tow ascertain, on account of its transparency. In consequence of the darkish interval, occasioned by the atmospheric space, the suspended light appeared to us in the shape of a very bright envelope. The brilliancy of the envelope, and its yellowish colour, so different from that of the head, and Probably acquired by its mixture with the atmospheric fluid, are proofs of the continued action of the sun upon the luminous matter, already in so high. a state of rarefaction and if we suppose the attenuation and decomposition of this matter to be carried on till its particles are sufficiently minute to receive a slow motion from the inspulse of the solar beams, then will they gradually recede from the hemisphere exposed to the sun, and ascend in a very moderately diverging direction towards the regions of the fixed stars. That some such operation must have been carried on, is pretty evident from our having seen the gradual rise, and nllcreased expansion of the tail of the comet; and if we sawv the shining matter, while suspended in the cometic atmosphere, in the shape of an envelope, it follows that, in its rising condition, it would assume the appearance of those two luminous branches which we have so long observed to inclose the tail, of the comet. The seemingly circular form, and the stream-like appearance of the luminous matter having been already explained, we may now see the reason why it can rise in no other form) than the conical; for ad whole hemisphere of it being exposed to the action of the sun, it must of course ascend equally every where all around it. with Ilernarkvs on the Construction of its dferent Parts. 13, That the luminous matter ascending in the hollow conel, received no addition to its quantity from any other source than the exposed hemisphere, we may conclude from its appearance; Swhich notwithstanding the great circumference of the cone it filled, at the altitude of 6 degrees from the head, was never seen with increased lustre ; although the diameter of an annular section of it, in that place, must have been nearly 15 millions of miles, and was but little more than half a million at its rising from the envelope. This consideration points out the extreme degree of rarefaction of the luminous matter about the end of the tail; for its expansion, while still much confined in the streams, at the altitude which has been mentioned, must have exceeded the density it had at rising about 52 times; but when afterwards it extended itself so as to produce nearly an evenly scattered light over the whole compass of the end of the tail, we may easily conceive to what an extreme degree of rareness its expansion must have been carried. The vacancy occasioned by the escape of the nebulous matter, which after rarefaction passed fromn the hemisphere exposed to the sun into the regions of the tail, was probably filled up, either by a succession of it from the opposite hemisphere, or by a rotation of the comet about an axis; and the gradual decomposition of this matter would therefore be carried on as long as any remained to replace the deficiency That such a kind o' process took place, seems to be supported by the observations which vere made during t e regression of the comet from its perihelion. For the space between the branches of the tail, very near the head of the comet, became gradually of a darker appearance thlan before' orT 140 Dr. H-ERScHEL'S Observat "ons Of a Comet, which indicated the absence of the nebulous matter that had formerly been lodged there. A rotatory motion of the comet, which has been suggested, 'ould also explain the frequent variations In the length of the opposite branches which inclosed the tail ; for if any ponron of the cometary matter should be, more susceptible of being throxvn into a luminous decomposition than some others, a rotatory motion would bring such more susceptible matter into different situations, and cause a more or less copious emission of it mi different place. The additional short and faint double streams of nebulous light which issued from the vertex or side of the enfeebled envelope, in the gradual regress of the comet, tend likewxise to add probability to the conception of a rotatory motion; for the changeable appearance of the situation of these streamlets might arise from a periodical exposition of some remaining small portions of less rarefied mater, when nearly the whole of it had been exhaustedOf the Result of a Comet's Perihelion Passage. After having given a detail of phenomena, and entered into a research of the most likely manner in which they were produced, I shall only mention what appears to me to be the mot probable consequence of the perihelion passage of a comet. The quality of giving out light, although it may always reside in a comet, as it does in the immensity of the ncbtidout matter, which I have shown to exist in the heavens, is exc eed ingly increased by its approach to the sun. Of this wte SlInuld not be so sensible if it were not accmpanied Ilith an almost with Remarks on the Construct on of its dfferent Parts. 141 inconceivable expansion and rarefaction of the luminous substance of the coret about the time of its perihelion passage. It is admitted, on all hands, that the act of shining denotes a decomposition in which at least light is given out; but that many other elastic volatile substances may escape at the sam-e time, e pe lally in so high a degree of rarefaction, is far from. improbable. Then} since light certainly, and very likely other subtile fluids also escape in great abundance during a considerable time before and after a comet's nearest approach to the sun, I look upon a perihelion passage in some degree as an act of consolidation. If this idea should be admitted, we may draw some inter+estinc conclusions from it. Let us, for example, compare the phenomena that accompanied the comet of 1807 with those of the present one. The first of these in its approach to the sun. came within 6i millions of miles of it ; and its tail, when longest, covered an extent of 9 millions. The present one in its perihelion did not come so near the sun by nearly 36 millions of miles, and nevertheless acquired a tail 91 millions longer than that of the former. The difference in their distances from the earth when these, measures were taken was but about X muillions. Then may we not conclude, that the consolidation of the coret of 1807, when it came to the perihelion, had already been carried to a much 1igher degree than that of the present one, by some former approach to our suni, or to other SimriIarly constructed celestial bodies, such as we have reason, to btieve the fixed stars to be ? And that comets may pass round other suns than ours, is 142 Dr. HERscHEL's Observatoions of a Comet, rendered probable from our knowing as yet, with certainty, the return of only one cornet among the great number that have been observed. Since then, from what has been said, it is proved that the influence of the sun upon our present comet has been beyond all comparison greater than it was upon that of 1807 ; and since we cannot suppose our sun to have altered so much in its radiance as to be the cause of the difference; have we not reason to suppose that the matter of the present comet has either very seldom, or never before passed through some perihelion by which it could have been so much condensed as the preceding comet? Hence may we not surmise that the comet of 1807 was more advanced in maturity than the pre. sent one; that is to say, that it was comparatively a much older comet. Should the idea of age be rejected, we may indeed have recourse to another supposition, namely, that the present comet, since the time of some former perihelion passage, may have acquired an additional quantity (if I may so call it) of unperzhelioned matters by moving in a parabolical direction through the immensity of space, and passing through extensive strata of nebulosity and that a small comet, having already some solidity in its nucleus, should carry off a portion of such matter, cannot be improbable. Nay, from the complete resemblance of many comets to a number of nebulk I have seen, I think it not unlikely that the matter they contain is originally nebulous. It may therefore possibly happen that some of the nebula, in which this matter is already in\ a high state of condensation, may be drawn towards the nearest celestial body of the nature of our sun; and after their first perihelion past with Remarks on the Construction of its different Parts. 143 sage round it proceed, in a parabolic direction, towards some other similar body; and passing successively from one to another, lmay come into the regions of our sun, where at last we perceive them transformed into comets. The brilliant appearance of our small comet may therefore be ascribed either to its having but lately emerged from a nebulous condition, or to having carried off some of the nebulous matter, situated in the farextended branch of its parabolic motion. The first of these cases will lead us to conceive how planetary bodies may begin to have an: existence; and the second, how ti-ey may increase and, as it were, grow up to maturity. For if the accession of fresh nebulous matter can be admitted to happen once, what hinders us from believing; a repetition; of it probable ?and in the case of parabolic motions, the passage of a comet through immense regions of such matter is unavoidable. WM. HERSCHELIl Slough, near Windsor Dec. 06, iuiz,. 