XtT Of s Evaporation. Ay Jollrz Andresr de LUCJ Esq. F.R.sF Read June 2S, 1792. 35N my last papers t)n hygrometry, I have considered. moisture in tlae air as a modification of a particular fluil, prodllced by the estaporation of svater, composed of svater atld fire, lnixe£S *vith the air, but independent ol it. Hovexrer there svas alnore comlnon theory of tltlat pheriolnenotl, in WthiCh evapo ration was attributed to a dissolution of n7ater by air: b-ut as an inquiry into the cause of evaporation belollgs lnore to 11ygrology than to hygrometry, I made vllen no remark ota tllatsubject ; having in view solne experiments which svere to ascertain a particular point fundamental to it. Since that time I have made those experiments, sThich are the object of this paper; but before I relate them, it is necessary to esplain he^r they connect hygrometry with 11ygrology; vvllich svill be by stating; the principlesof those two branches of ex perimental philosophy according to my systelu. From the time I fixed my at tention on evaporation, and its various consequences, I was led to think, that tlle kind of dissolution of water, observed in those phaerlomena, was operated by fire without any in+erference of air: and among other reasons for that opinion the most decisive for lue was, that5 4OO: M;*. DE Luc Qn EvEoration.osearery liquid cools when it evaporates; for I considered that circumstance as a proof; thatO the portion of the liquid which then disappears is carried away by a quantity of fire proceeding finotn the lXqtlid itself. . . The general phnomena of evaporatioll and moisture had sbeen my only guidesy when I first published Xny opinxon in that respect in my work Rech. slfr les Mod. de IAtnaosI)here: but it was thell in a very imperi:Ect state and I owe much to Mr. WATT} the inventor of the new steam engine fbr the degree of precision which that theory has acquired in my last vork, IdUes sllr la Meteorologie. In particular I am indebted to that truly ingenious and learned experimental philosopher for an immediate proof of laly fundamental opinion, resultillg >om an experiment, that he was so good as to repeat in my presence, and which del:nonstrates that in the common evaporation of water in open air the quantity of lleat lost by the mass) bears to the quatltity of water carried away, a proportiola still greater tharl that whicll is fbund in the steam produced by boiling water. Tilerefbre there is no reasoll to doubt*that steam i-s fbrmed in the first as in the last of those cases. It is true, that in some other respects} appearances are very differellt ill those twosclasses of phxnometla; but those diirences proceed from well detertnined causes, as wtill appear by the fbllowing abstract of my theory. On tbe Laws of Rgroky. . Whellever water is in a state of evaporation, arl expansible fluid, composed of water and fires is produced. TQ that 1W . nz LucBuid, the object of hygrology and hygrometry, I shall give the name of stea-mn in enrery case. 2. As long as steain Vexists, it has a pcwer of pressures as air -itself; but it does not belong to tlle class of permanent fluids, for it may be decomposed by a certain degree of pressure or cooling, accorditlg to determined laws. . I'he characteristic property of steams from which proceeds its decoulpcesition by those causes, is, the havlng a fixed maximulil of density by a given temperature, wilich increases witlo the telnperature Thusa when tfhat fluid isarrifired at the maximum correspondent to a certOain temperaturey it must utldergo a decompo$ition, either bJr cooling, because its actual maxitnum is toQ great for the new temperature; or by an increaseof pressure (the tettiperature remaining the same), because its density beeomes too great for that tetuperature. 4. rrhe degree of pressure exercised by steam, or which it can support stithout decomposition being, cgterzs paribusX proport-iot1al to its density, depends, in the same maaner, on temperature. S Steam is forlned by every temperature, when a previous space permits its expalsion; but, according to the above law, no steanl can be formed whetl, fbr its formation, it ought to repeI an obstacle superior, ill the smallest degree to the maximum of its-power by tilesactual tetxperature; and if it has been formed under a pressure not exctedilig its powers if tilat pressure ilicreases, or the ternperature lowers, ever so littleX it is totally decomposed. 6. This is what determines both the degree of heat by which urater can begin to boil, alld the variations of that degree, by those-of pressure. For ebullitioll is that state of on Evaporation. os a liquid in wlaich steam is continually formed within itself; notwithstanding the external pressure; atld as such an expansive power in stearn depends on a certain degree of density, its production requires, in tile liquid, a certain degree of heat, .which thus is determi3:ed by the degree-of pressure. As for the fixity of the degree of heat in water boiling under a con-stant pressure, it proceeds frotn an equilibriurn constantly produced betsveenv tlae quantity of fire which contirlues to penetrate the water and that which goes off in the steam; the diffierences which happen in the first of those quantities, having no other sensible eSect, than to produce a more or less rapid formation of steam. 7. Now from the same lav derieres also the difference between the phmlomena of common evaporation and ebullition. If the latter requires a deterlmined degree of heat, it is only because the steam CAlZllOt be formed within the svater, without having at once a suicient degree of density for overcomillg alone the actual pressure exercised over that water by the atmosphere.But in common evaporation-the steam is formed at the surEace of the water by every temperature, because there it meets with no resistance but what it catl a1ways c)vercome: for it only mixes with the airs and expands it in proportiotl to its quantity, as would a hew quantity of alr. 8. Steam formed by comnzorl evaporation is absolutely of the same nature with that of boiling water; and in respect of tlle pressure that it uxldergoes, it is ill tlle same state as when produced by evaporation under an exhausted receiver. In this case, where the pressure of the atmosphere is suppressed, the resistance verhich steam; meets with in the space is its Mr DE tUd7-4xoXtWI1, and consequ-ently it is proportional to its own power; Snd in opel1 air, the part of the mvhole pressure incumbent on steam is, to that wholef as its povver is to that of the whole inass, the rest of the pressure being supported by tlle airw-ith uthich it is lmixed: which proportion in tlae pressure that steanl uxadergoesn in this-caseJS c()Xues exactly to tlnat of theQ first. This is agreeable to the laus of expansible fluids, and the follosving ex-ample, taken at a determined temperatures xvili prove it frc?Xn experiellce. 19e The thermometer being at about 65° of F<AHReNuE-IT5 the -maximutTl of--evaporation, i arl exhausted receiver, keeps a columll; Xof quiclksilver of o, inch suspended ill the short tnanometer ( I have quoted tlae experilnents svllich give that middle result). Tllat phnonlenon has been cotlsidereEl by some natural philosophers vIS distillct firoln cornmon evapo ration and dependitlg on a dispositiotl of the particles of liquids of repelling each other; svhich dispositicon supposed to be coLlllteracted by the pressure of tile atnosphereX must appcar srllen tllat pressulre is remoxtecl. But besides the kllowil loss of heat by t;he liquid,; in ttliS G8Se as Nvell AS iI} open air, whoch poitats out the same cause o-f evaporations an equal presstlre is also produced, and adcIed to that of air when the receiver is filled sith the latter; whicll again nX dicates the same eSect as%7ill appear in the 00l0W7ing t2'* Ampl£^3 -Io. If, by the above temperature, the receiver is filled with air of tlae same density as the air of the place X ila sv;ch case:abarometerillclosed in that reccisrer will starad a1: the same height eas in the open air ; alld tllat in the receiver 1;)e ing tllen very dry, svater be ltroduced in a qtlantity sufficiont on E7vaporatioZs4OSbr producing in it the maxlmum of errapoloationy ztlle rnclosed barolneter, considered here as a marzeneters will rlse c3nS inCh; aS Alr. DE SAUSSURE }lAS found it by experimets. XX If lzosv nte consider that the instrument calIed barotue terX is in eYery ca$e a manometer Be shall find that thow phznonlena observed itl close verels give us a true idea of hat happens to steam in the atmcesphere. When that i strument is observed in open air, it is with reason called barometer; sinte the expansive-power exercised orl its mercurial column isdetermined by the ^Teight: of the irlctlmbent columll of air; therefore it is the true lueastlre of tlne WYeight oftlaat colalmn. 13ut at the satne tirne, arld more imluediate]y) it is a real nzanometer since the immediate -action exercised on its column, and to which this is also proportionala iS3 cateris paribus, exercised by the density of the fluid or fluids, which surround it, wlaose action is exactly the same as if ally part of the msassof those fluids svere suddenly secluded fr{m the rest in a close vessel. Therefore, wlolen steam is« tnixed with air be the tnass / shat upin a vessel, or be: it a certaila p-art of tlle atmosphete distinct by its place) both iluids will act on the column of the marlolueter or barometer or ot every obstacle and thus against each otTler according to their respective power; for this funclatnental reason proceedirlg kom the nature of steam as NQW explalned, (' That no mecs chanical cause can produce the decotnptosition of that fluid} s; lzutz by forcing its particles to co-me nearer each other thari cs theactualr:enaperature can permit: mrllichcaw cannothappen in the atmospheres except by the accumulatio-rl of steam it-self in some part of it ;since, elsewhereX it olaly remains mixed MDCG XC I I C s G AosXr. T)E Lvenvith the air aceorditlg to lts onv< laws, as if there svere n-o aor. The whole thevry of hygrologys as far as I have been able to collect the phnolnena of that class, appears to me comprehended in the fo3regoing propositions, foullded on facts. The objects of that science are in general the cause of evaporatioll, arld tlle lnodifications of the evaporated water. The comlnon source of the water thus disselllinated in the atmosphere, is the surface of the eartil; wilenGe in spoIltaneouS evaporation, both in air and in vacuo, as well as in ebullition we see that water fly off vlth latetlt fire. If we collect that product in a close space, it acts in the same manner as a new quantity of expansive fluid. We know from experienceg that an expansive fluid is really produced by ebullition, alld by evaporation in an exhausted vessel: there is no reason vhy the callse of evaporations and its product, should change itz ally case, only by the presence of air; and in examining what may happen in open air, we find no particular cause of the destructiorl of t;hat expansible fluicl, nor any difficulty ita conceiving its dissemination in every part of the atmo spheree But here w-e lose sight of steam, for it is as transparerlt as air itself: here also its lnechallical action is as little per* . E ceivable as that of any set of scattered particles of air ; and though its specific gravity is much less than that of air, its quantity existirlg in the; atmosphere is most times so inconsiderable, that it can hardly be discovered by that means, on account of other causes which also aiect the specific gravity of a givetl mass of free air. ThereforeX notwithstandirlg our on EVSQraTlOn.7experilnents on the formatiotl of stealn and its effects in our vesselsg nte should be ignorant of its: functions ill the atmosphere, if it were not for its prope-rty of producing moisturej bywhich ve may trace it wherever it is, and determine its quantity. Here then a new field is open for experimetlts and observations; since by connecting hygrometry with hygrology, the hygrometer is for us in the atmosphere, what tlie malaol7leter is in close vessels. The particular experiments which I laave to relate, have that colznection in view; as they will shesv, that in a close vessel, either filled with air, or free from it, the product of evaporation aSectsX at the same time, the hygrometer and the nlallometer; .the fortner by luoisture, the latter by pressioni But I must here take this as a fact itl order not to interrupt the course of the theory, which, froln hygrologyy leads to hygrometry, lJy certain laws de-monstrated in the fluid which is th.¢ cause of xnoisture. 0f the Laws of grometryb z. tRhe science of hygronzetry derives sts origin from the muse whence proceeds, that the density of steam has diffierent xlaxima, according to the temperature. I have shewn, in my last work on meteorology, that in the particular association of water and fire which produces steam, both of those ingredients retainthe faculty of producing their: respectier-e equilibrium between the medium and bodies; that also the patticles of water retain a tendency of uniting together, which begins to be effiectual at a certain distance: alld t;hat their union takes pkce whexl they-come to a degree of proximitys by which sG s 34 )'. DE >UC8tlley mn surlnoutltt}le cause vvllich keeps tllem disseminated in the space, namely fire. T'lle less the quantity of free fire (ot of the cause of 11eat) itl a spa-ce) tlle greater is the distance at which the particles of water have the ficulty of tlniting together and also of fiollowing other tendencies, by abatldotxing their latelWlt fire; and azce versa. A final UlliOll of a sensible qLlatltity of particles of water in the medium (ory what comes to the same, that precipitatioll of u?vter wllqcl first appears in it as a mist) talies place, when-tlle density of steam is arrived beyond itS limit5; and those lilmits depend oll temperature, becau^ the greater the quantity of fre fire in the space, the nearer the particles of steatn may come to one another, wtithout a final union of their wrater The svhole in vacao, as in air. Such is the physical principle conamon to hygrology and hygrometry 2. Hygroscopic su}stances are ofthree distinct cla,sses. Some seize on tlle svater of steatn by a chemical affinity witht that Siquid; among these are acids, salts, and calces. Some only imbibe it by its telldency to propagate itself in capillary pores ; but, from their natuire they receive no sensible increase in their bulk by its introduction; in the number of tllese are porous stones. Lastly, some substances, whicll also only imbibe a certain quantity of water, are thereby expanded; and these are most of the solids belonging to the vegetable and animal kingdoms. Variolls; hJrgroscopic phnomena, svhicIi otlly depend on the different properties of the substances themselves, being thus foreign to the fundamelltal laws of hygronetry, I shall here confine myseIf to the last class, hich appears the only proper one for that general purpose; and, among the hygrowopes of thaVt class, I*shall onlyfcoasldu on lEvaporatiosa.oOgthose which cease to lengthen, only when they canllot be penetrated with more water-; as, by the use of these, there cannot; ke a:ltr fallacy ill respect of the most important phnornerla to be deterrnitzed, namely) tXne Inore or: less intetlsoty, according to certain circumstances, in the cause whi£h aSects tlae hyg,roscope placed itl a medium. ; 0 * The vvord moisture, like some othersvsrhich also have been applled to certain phxnoretla the causes o f which were not deternzined, is atnbiguous in comluon language? implyng soluetllues the idea of a cause, and at other ti:rnes that of an eSect, witllout a proper cleterminatioll; that defect might bs corrected by lneans of different words for the cause and fbrthe effecl;: but neologisms are often so troublesorne alad sotnetimes so arbitrarily introduced into languages, that I shall only endeavour to determine the sense tof thesvord mois turen according to cases, so as to avoiEl0;ambigllity. : 4. Moisture, taken in a pneral sense, may be considereDd simply as invisible srater,producing observable plwnolliena. '-rhus, ill hygroscopic bodies, the quantity cf water wQhich -expatlds tlletn, and itlcreases their uteight, is concealed sv-ithitl their pores:; and-ill the ambierst medium, that wa;ter which affects hygroscopic bodies, being-l;here under the fortn of stearn, is as invisible as air itself.: : 5. But in respect of l:zygrometry} where moistu^re is;;considered as having correspondent degree$ in the mediumX, antl in hygroscopic sllbstances, that word reqLuires aln-ore particula-r determination, on accollnt of those tulo different situations of itlvisible svater. M-oisturetnay be elther to-tally absent, or: absolutely extreme both itl hygroseopic bodies,aild -irl the alnbient medium, whicTl fcircutmstalzGe, on both sides, aSotcisf Mr. DE Luc-41Oa fixed lmodule for determining correspondent degrees; but these modules are not of tlle sanae nature; azd thellce, in their relation-to olle another, both irl the whole and in correspotldellt parts, tnoisture assumes in tlle nledium, the character of a cause, a<d in hygroscopic bodies, that of a11 effect, as will appear by the following determination of both cases. 6. Moisture is totally absent, fi-rst in tlle medium, hen it contains no steam; tllen (as a consequellce) in hygrcxscopic bodies, because they contain no more water than can evaporate, without a decomposition of their cornponent parts The case supposed in that definitions is when, by some adequate cause, no setlslble qualltity of steatu is pernuitted to remaill in the -naedium ; as in my linle-vessel. Moisture is extreine, first in the mediutn, eithet air or a space free from air when no luore steam could be introduced into it, without a part of it being decomposed; and then (also as a ctnsequence to be explained) it is extreme in hygroscopic bodiess because no more water can be admitted illtO their pores. Now, firom the nature of the last of those maxima, the qualltity of water which produces it itl a given body is fixed, since it is determined by the actual capacity of its pores; whereas the quantity of water which produces extreme moisture, in a medium of a givell extent, is as variable as the temperature: therefore, t)he hygroscopic equilibrium between the medium and hygroscopic bodies in different stages of moisture, which equilibriula is the object of hygrometry as a science, does not depend on certain qualltities of water contained in the first, of w-hich the last may receifire their share; it depends on different aptitudes of the steam contained irl the mediula to communicate water to those bodies; which aptitudes vary, not osl ErvSoration.ollly by tlte diffierent derlsities of that fluid? but in stealn of the same density according to tTle temperature. 7. Ira order to assign the eause of that equilibrium, vve harre previously to detertnitle} :1. Whence proceeds a Inaximum of length=xn the hygroscopic bodies here reSerred to; 2. lElow that ma7Qimum is prcxduced by steam; g. Why it takes place by diffierent densities of that fluid, when the temperature is different S. Water introduces itself into the above bodies by its property of adherillg and propagating itself on their surfaceR and thereby of entering their capillary cllannels; and those bodies resist its introductiorl, which ex}zallds thelal, by the tendency of their particles to remain urlited. This last tendency,:from itS OWll law, being less atld less in proportion as the particles of the body are already less in colltact with cach other, it shollld appear, that water ought at last to divide them entirely: but, according also to the law of that ;propagation of water, the greater is its quantitg :aIready induced on the internal chantlels of tlle body the less is the tendency of new particles to enter them; and this last diminution being more rapid than the former, there comes a point in w-hich tEte two forces are in equilibrium; which circumstance determines the maximum of the introductiorl of water, and consequently that of the lengthening of the body 9. The maximum of length of tllose hygroscopic bodies is thus produced, 0vhenever a sufficient quantity of water stands or floats: round them, without having a strotlger tendellcy elsewheret Therefore that maximum is prodllced vwthen such a body is ilumersed into water; and it is also produced when the same substance stallds in a space where Mr. DE LUG:steam xis arrived at its lnaximum; for t}lat fluid is then so ready to atoatldorl its vaterX if this has a tendency elsewilere, that a smallfflquantity of new steam introduced in the space, would occasion the decomposition of part of itS followed by a spontaneotls precipitation of vvater. wo. But we have seen above, that s-teatn arrives to it§maxiultlm Bith diSerent clegrees of density, according to the temperature; consequenfly, whatever be the actual density of stealn, if that density is its maximum conformable to tlle ternperature, the hygroscopic body will rective vater to the maxilnum; and thereby it xvill att-aila its maximum of length X 1. NoW, as according tv the prernises, the detlsity of steam is tot the ollly circumstallce by svhich, at tEleElast period, the hygroscopi-c bodyretains in a medium tlle maximum of water that it can receive, that effect depending also otl the tetuperature; ly tlle sarne callse, the density of stealn is not at tlle former periods, tlat only circutustance -whic}l determines the qualltlty of xv-ater vllat the hygroscopic body can retaill in the tnedillinn; that quantity depezds also on the temperatureO The following is tlae tlleory of that phnomenon, or of the hygroscopic e-quilibriulal between the medium and bodies. 12. In c-onwquence of the above determined composiDtion of -steam whatever be its quantity in a givetl space, either filled with ait or firee from it, its aptitude of commulaicating water to hygroscopic substatl-cesJis always proportional to tlle actual ratio between thaVt quantity and the maximum corres?ondent to Dthe teluperat-ure ;which ration and not an ab$o-ltite quantity of stealn, ;s a c-ertain degree of tuoisture con$idered in the mecliufm; vshereas moisture considered in a on Eznatoration.413certain hygroscopic body, is t1ze determinedl quantity of water which it can retain itl the mediutu, according to the actual satio in the steam. Moisture in the medLium is greater and an hygroscope retains in st a greater quantity of wtaters wlzell tlle actual qualltity of steam bears a greater proportion svitI;i sts maximum correspondent to the temperature; and vice vers. Therefore the divisions of the instrumett are tneant to indicate, by every temperatllre, the actual distance of moisZ ture in the medium, either from its zerc>, or froln its maximum -, and tllat distance is the degree of moisture. But this is yet with out any reference to tlae dellsity of steam; the eletertrlination of tTwis havitzg the temperatul^e for one of its indispetlsable elements. S. From that derives the remarkable phaenomenon of the effects pl^oduced on moisture in the nzedium, by the variatiotls of temperature, tllougil the quantity of steam, or evaporated water, remains tlle sanle in the same space; !effiects of which we are infortrled by the variations of the hygroscope, and whicll are the same by the absence or presence of air. Every thange in the temperature operates a correspondent change in the module of m-oisture; or in a variable totum of which according to its magnitude, the actual quantity of steam is a greater or a smaller aliquot part; tllat module beillg always the quantity of steam that could not be exceeded ill the spaces by the actual temperature without the decomposition o£ part of it; which is always extreme moisture in the mediu:n. 14. From that results lastly; that if, besidFes being acquainted, by the hygroscope, of the degree of moisture in the medium, or of elle ratio between the density of steam and itg . ectual module, it is required to kllow the density of that >>MDWSC I f @ 3 H M/Ir. DE Loe414steam, or its qXalltlty ill a given space s the observation of tlle temperature is required: as this, by previous experiments ill order to determille the qtlatltities of steam correspondent to its different nlaxima accorditlg to the telrlperature, mill a-fford a co-efficieIlt for the ratio observed. a,. But are we permltted to consider the variations of the hygroscope as proportional to those of moisture in the medium ? Tllls, accorditzg to the above determinationsa would be the case, if the hygroscopic substance of the instrument lengthened in proportion to the quantity of water that it may retain in the medillm. But the cause of the expansioti of those substances by vvater, and the capacity of their pores at different periods of moisturey are too complicated for answering that question a priori i and by experience, the great differ ences observed ill the marches of many of those instruments made of differelst substances, prevents us from asslgning that property to any of them, till some particular experilnent comes to help us ill that respect. However, that circumstance affects only the practical part of hygrometry, and is foreign to the fundamental principles of that science, which I haare now exposed as they appear to me from its gelleral phaenomena. I have indicated, in my last paper, two means u7hich I had formerly imagined for obtaining that desirable and still wantirlg correspondence between the march of a determined hygroscope, and that of moisture in the medium. One of those means was, to observe, at the same time, the variations in weight arld length of the same substatlce, in order to com pare thc quantities of water which it retains, with their effiects o-n its lellgth. I have executed that experiment; but its rct n Evaporation.sultss which I gave in mzr last paper have confirmed my doubts, on evfen the acquisitions of weight beitlg proportional to the increase of moisture in the medium; since they do not keep thewsame pace in different substances. The other means wTas, to introduce in a dry vessel succest sive equalSquantities of utater withollt opening the vessels and to observe their effiect on the Shygroscope. I made, last year, a first attempt of that experimerlt which succeeded i respect of the introduction of water in a space of a known small degree of moisture; but the everlt confirmed also the uxlcertainty that I suspected in that method, because of a variable share of water retained by the vessel itself. Howwevert as some parts of lny apparatus might contribute to that un certainty, I intend to correct it, and repeat the experiment; which, if I obtain regular results? I shall have the honour to communicate tQ the Royal Society. I have now summed up the series of propositions which connect together in one systetn the whole of the fulldanletltal phxnomena of bygrology and hygrometry; and the only part of that system uthich remained to be proved by imme diate experiments is, that link mentioned above between the two classes of phnometlas namely ; (' That in vacuo, as in airs 's the product of evaporatioll aff;ects the hygroscope asit {s does the mallometer." I had ascertained that fact since the year o776 by imlnediate experinzerlts; which was te reasoll whyX in my last work, I considered that circumstance as a principle, which, at leasts could not be denied by any thing known to the contrary. But, for an immediate demontration of it, many conditions were wanting in my first experiment, which could not be obtained but by the whole of 3H 2 416ltfr. DE Luslny subsequent lab-our. l'hat experiment ls now made wltll a sufficient clegree of regularity; and tlle rnore so, as it has been executed by Mr. HAAS) in one of his air-pulups with some of my whale-bone hygrometers, tnade by himself: and I*shall IROW give its resu te Exparizents on EvEoratlon) in =4ir and in Vacuoe Tlle purpose of these experiments being to shew, that the eiects produced by evaporation on the hygrorneter and the manometer, are the same in the ab5ence of air, as when they take place in air; I sllall begin here by referring to Mr NAIRNE S paper, in the Philosophical Transactiolls fbr 17*77 sn which it isproved by experiments, that Mr. SMEATON)S pear-gage is not a true manometer, sillee it does not indicate the presence of steam, when some remains in an exhausted receiver; but that it is the only true measure of the quatltity of air itself remaining in that space. That property of the pear-gage, proceeds from the fifth latv «of the above theory of hygrology. When, in the common temperature of the atmosphere, steam is unprotected by a sufficient mixture of air, it is totally decomposed by the pressure of the atmosphere, wherl this acts by the interposition of some sort of piston, as is the columll of quicksilver in the pear-gage: therefore no fluid can remain at the top o£ that instrllment when filled with quicksilver, except the quantity of air which was contained in zits capacity before the introductione of the quicksilver. Whell some Iasting cause of fbrmation of steam happens to be within the air-pulnp} and that the pump is long wxked on E7><porationk4I7tlae aor is at la^st allnost completely exhausted, and the remaitlIng presstlre acting on the mallometer is that of steamr Mr. AIRNE has shewtn me all instance of that effiect, in: which tlae quarltity of air indicated by the pear-gage was ]1ot °ve IOOOO part of the whole That remar-kable ict will prove, that ill the fUllowing experitnents air itself was exhsted to theutmost degreeX and thus reduced to nougllt irl respect of any irlfluence ola the main phaerlomena. I tnust also premise whence pred some anomalies which will be observed in those experiments. It is in general from the nature of steam fiom whicht in our experimentst it is subluitted to certain modifications depending on its laws but which carlnot be dWQ5 reirred to them by immediaW explanationa because of undeXrmined effects of the sides of the vessels, and of irregularities in the temperatureX The law of steam which is the most subject to anomalies by those causes, is that of two distinct masima, one of productioll, the other of prevation. Thow two maxima coincide, when the temperature is neSartthe freezing potnt; as in that acase, the whole quantity of steam that mn exist at one time in a spacea is also produced when there is a sufficient quantity of water in any part of it; whereby the hygrometer stahds at soo, wshich is its point of extreme moisture. But in proportion as t ze w :uole apparatus grows nvarmer the maximum of production fills short of that of preservation.; the quantity of steam does not increases though it might be more denw without undergoing a decompositlon ; and thereby the hygro;neter recedes kom extreme moistllre. Such is the gexleral law of steam, as it resuIts clearly fiom the whole of lny experiments; -but in particular cases, it iF Mr. DS IJ^UOsubject to allolualies fronl varlouS cau$es atong which are the following. If thewater that evaporates is wartner than the space which receives the steam} more moistllres is pt odllced in that space, or the quantity of steam ss greater in it than by an equal temperature in both; alld vice versae MUore or ESS diStallCe Qf the part of the space wrhere the hygrozneter stands from the $ides of the Ve$sel produces also anotnalles ; as according to tlleir own state of moistures if llear enough, they halre an influence onr moisture in that space as I have expIained lt1 my fiormer paper; and thls is often the case in sotne measure when the vessels are too small. Lastlyfi diSerences in the temperature of the whole or of sotue part of the vessels comparatively with that of the spaces are the lnost comInon causes of allomal-ies ; for steam is altex nately decomposed and reproduced by those diSerences, and when they have once begun in a vessely there is no certain means to bring it to a regular course of phxtlomenas except by beginning again, or by a long equal temperature. I come now to the experituentss in which I shall indicat some effiects of those causes. . ! FIRST EXPER I MENT * The receiver/ used was about eight inches in diameter, and twelve in heigllt. One of my hygrometers was suspended ln it, svith a thermometer, the degrees of whicll were actually dierided in-ten parts. I-n the evening a very ltarge wet cloth was placed in loose fblds on its bottoms and the frst obserstation was xmade the next mortling as followst Time. Long Gage {Short Gage. HygromX l"herma 7h 2;t A. M. o.o _ 9d,,5 47,7tS Qn Eraporation.9The rnaxirrlum of evaparatioll was then surely produced; but it remained short >$ degrees from extreme moisture. this was ill air. I could not hane any indicatioll of the qualatity of pressure produced by the steam) mixed then with t;he air; for a receiver, equaily pressed itl and out, is not air tight An experixneat for determining tllat increase of pressure, must be nade in a sealed vessel, as in Mr. DE SAUSSURE'S experiment, by which he found that importatlt phxnomenon; but from that experiment we ave sure? that if a barometer had been inclos:ecl in the above recelver, being then sealed, the steam produced would have nzade it rise, at the same time that it affected the hygrometer. The pump sNas then worked; after which the instruments mere fourld as follows. 7,l5 26,o 97,° 44s75 I sTlall make here a remark on the known phaenomenon of the diminutioIl c)f heat, when a space filled with air is suddenly exhausted ; > as in this case we have an analogy that will henhance the most natural explallation of that phaenomer}on. Free fire, the cause of heat, being an expansible fluid, as air atld steam, is then carried away with them, notwithstanding its tenuity, and heat is diminished in the spate till new fire is come through the vessel. Now, the same is observed in reAspect of moisture with a quick hygrometer, for it goes fbr an irlstant to dryness, while the quantity of steam carried avvay is repairing by a new evaporation In the aboure case, moisture was lastly increased °S degree; yet the quantity of steam was less than before, and the cause Mr. DE tUX42Qof that icrease of moistaare was, the diminutions of its module by that of heato In respect of air, its quantity was so diminished, as to perrnit a column of qvlicksiIver of 26 inches to rise in the loIlg gage. lnhe pulnp was again worked) and time given for the instrumellts to settle. 7,2s' 28,7 _ -969s 4yf7SThe original temperature was now restored ; and as air hado beerl much diminisvhed by the first operation, fire, thus much more free in this, escaped the action Qf the pump. Moisture also was restored nearly to its: original degreeS thoughz very little air remairzed itl the re(eiver. Tlle pump was svorked by intervals. lorSt 28t5 o,yo 96X66 47,75 The quantir;y of air was now so little, that it cannot be $upposed to hase had any share in the effect of the steam; however moisture remained sensibly the same by the sametemperature. Worked agaioa the pump tothe best vacuum. to2oo 28,7 onss 9435 48,8 The pressure oll the short gage was 110W, according to Mr. NAIRNE'S experilnents, almost wholly produced by steam; yet moisture preserved its own distinct modificatiolls: here it is diminished, notwithstanding tlle maximum of evaporation hecause of the increase of heat. The pllmp -was vorked at different times, for extract ing some air that was disengaging itself from the large wet clothe on Ezvaporvtio-z& ?35 28X7 °SS 9t>° St 2?50 P. M. 28>72 o60 86)7r: 54415 Here again totsvithstandillg a constalat ulaxitnutll of eva pc)ration moisture contixlued to diminish by tlle intr@ase of heat, as it does in air. The apparatus was left ill that situation about fotlr hour$ t and the obwrvers having lefk the rooma thisa and tle ap proachilzg evening, occasioned a sensible diminution in tlle heat ; whereby, as the sides of the vessel cooled befbre the in closed space, the steam begat] to be decomposed against them, and tlley were fbulad overed with denv and streamtng nYaterg by a real nntinuing distillationc The last cause of anomaly abonre mentioned is here conspicuous by its great eict; fOt* during that distillatiotlX and cotlsequently tllolgh llew quanfit}es of steam ascended cotltinually through the spaw, mois ture wm in it much lessthan ila the tbrmer obsorvatiollsX as will be swn by the X11QWi1]gS made befbre and after working the pump. The thermometer could not be obwraredX onX awount of the tbicliness of tbe dew on its side of the vessel. 4a2°' 2723S 76) _ Worked the pumpa ^ 4sSS 7g75 o62 y6,? _ The steam nntinued some tinle to decompose itself agaillst the sides of-the vessel) and moisture to remain in that state of diminution till the heat commullicated by tlle observers to the apparatus made the internal dew evaporate; al1d when theeby the thermolneter collld be obsere7ed? the instrumellt$ were as follow5 6w47' 288X8 ot6 g6o St73 Here also is an instance of what I have mentioned aboves 3dDCCXCI I o s I M:r. DE LeUCof t1ze} irregtllarities attending all the phaenomena, after sonze lvNrtER tlas bee1a once deposited on the sides of the vessel: lnois ture was tc)o great for the telnperature, and it remained i< that state tlle whole evenilzg. 7nSSt 28>82 o,6 i 96, -52n7 8)4 28,82 076 96> 52But the llext morning, after the dissipation of some dewr tllat vas ol] the inside of the ressel, alld after having worked the pump, the irlstruments were fOUlld as follows. 7,tA.M. * 29,< od 9,66 44775 Now tllis) in respect of moisture, and its correspondelzce with the temperature by the masitnum of evaporation, is sensibly the samev as when the receiver wtas filled with air at the begillning of the experiment, though at this time no sen sible quantity of air remained irl it. SECOND EXPERIMENTo EDvery part of the apparatus was the same in this experiment as in the former, except the receierer, which was only abollt six inches itl diameter, and eight in heighe ; to svhich circumstance may be assigned, that moisture was generally grea-ter colnparatively with the temperature; but in respect of the indiffierence of air to the phxnolnena of moisture, the results mtere the same. . . A wet clothX only sufflcient to keep up the maximum of evaporation throughout the whole experiment} vvas used this time; by which means no air appeared in the receiver after the disengagement of the little quantity contailledi in the small cloth. This waa put under the receiver, fillecl vith on Ev-vporations +eS air, -at abou-t: four o'clock in tlae aftertzooll : arld the ifirst observation, made in that state, was thus: S,-P. M. oo gF,cs e 7d; The pllmp was therl workedX for extracting a part of the air, alld time given for the instrUtnetlts to settles and tltey were found7 St5r 6 5 ; -94 0 wSt75 After this obseraration, and after each c)f the fbllowing,tlleS pump was vorked, and time also givell for the instrllments to settle. 8,30J 1330 ---' 91 ° GGe75 8v45 l9xQ 86, 67 9 1 S eS0 . . 1.11 86so 67,75 g,go 29, o,65 Sg,o 6v7 After this, the pump wbas no more worked the salne day but the twro following observations were still made. xoot e9,g os65 8g,o 66,3 1 1 ,o 29,23 o,6s 9593 64,, G The apparatus vas left in that situation till tlle next morn-ing, when the fUllowing observation was made befbre worksug the pump. 6>20' A. M. a9, o,$45 9755 63,1S The pump was then worked, alld the best possible vacuum wtas produced, in which, according to Mr. NAIRNE'S experiments, there could not bed any sensible quantity of air. 6,40t 29,+o o,o 9S, 6S,rS In comparing the results of this experimellt with those o£ the first moistures as I have said, is generally greater in proportion to the temperature. But, setting this aside, and comparing the tnotions of the hygrometer and the thermosI 2 14XAB 1W. DE LUG 08 ES4PQrWZtE()AZ. IneterS it is eariderlt} that they are independent of the modilE cations of air ; and that it may safely be conclllded: cc rlthat the product of evaporation is always af the same nature, , t sc naluely, an expatlsib}e flllid, hichs either alone or mixed ; svitll air, affects the manometer by pressure and the hy ;; grometer by moisture, without any difference arising fkon {; the presence or absence of air > at least vvithout ary per 4; ctived hithertQ;e 