A Letter from Mr. Robert Roche to the President, of a Fustian Frock being set on Fire by Electricity. Honoured Sir, IF your Goodness will excuse the Liberty a Stranger has taken in giving you this Trouble, hoping the following Account will London, May 17, 1749. Read May 19. 1747. [324] will atone for his Boldness, I shall think myself greatly favoured. I have a Son about 16 Years old, that has been for 6 or 7 Years past troubled with sudden Fits that intirely take away his Senses. I got him all the Helps I could, but to no purpose; at last I sent him to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, as an Out-Patient; and there he was turn'd out as incurable. So finding his Case desperate, I considered the Power of Electricity, and made a large Machine for Electrifying; and afterwards shocking him commonly twice a Day, he has received some Benefit: And last Sunday, being May 15, he being on the Pedestal, and very high electrified, and having on a coarse Fustian working Frock, the condensing Phial being on the Conductor, and I, touching him to procure Snaps as usual, touched his right Shoulder Blade; and, to my great Surprize, the furzy Flax of the Frock caught Fire, with a great Blaze, and burnt the whole Breadth and Length of the Shoulder, the Flame rising 6 Inches above the Collar, and I believe would have set the Frock on Fire, had I not put it out with my Hands. There was no Fire in the Room that Day: This was about Noon; neither was there any thing that could have any inflammable Vapour there. My Surprize was the greater, because all I read on that Subject says nothing will burn but what sends forth such Vapours. At 9 the same Evening I made him put on the same Frock, and touch'd the left Arm, where the Flax had not been burnt before; and it had the same Effect as above. Sir, [325] Sir, if any further Account of the above will be acceptable to you, or the Royal Society, if you please to command I will wait on you. There are Alterations in my Machine I think for the better; and some new Experiments too long to write, fearing it would be too troublesome; from Your humble and obedient Servant, R. Roche. 