1: 293 XI. Additional Observations on the Method of makzng Ive a! Benares. In a Letter to William Marsden, Esq. Ft A. SO Jrom John Lloyd Williams} Esqj of 13enares. Read May ed o7930 DEAR SIR,0 s . Z bN addition to what I have aiready rommunicated to youX respecting the mode of procuring ice in this country, the following observations on that subject, accompanied with some account of the temperature of the air, and state of the thermometer, may not be unacceptable. : April soth, oy9e, the thermometer, in the shade, being at 95 degrees, some water xYas taken up from a well sixty feet deep, and the tllerrnometer being immerged in it, its tem pnrature was found to be 74 degreesW This water was then poured into four pots, or pans, similar to those which, in my former letter, I mentioned as being employed in the process for making ice. They were 1SQ similar to each other in size and construction9 except that two of thelao were new ad unglazed, and the two others old, with their poresclosed, so that no rnoisture coulcl transpire through them. These pots were then exposed to a hot westerly wirld, sn the shade for the space of three hours o viz. from two o'clock in the afternoon till five. UpOEl exarninlng them at that tlme, the water in MD(:C2CI I I . S Mr. WILLIAMS'S additional Observatzons130the old pots was found to be at 84 degrees, and that in the ne>w,or porous ones, at 68e After remaining in that situation one hour lon-ger, the water in the old pots rose to 88 degrees, whilst that in the new ones continued at 68 May lst, at two ovelock in the afternoon, the thermometer thenSbeing, in the sun, at 1oo degrees, and in the shade at 1007 the experiment was repeated, with the same pots as before. After being filletl with well-water, they were exposed for four hours, viz. from two ovclock till six, to a hot wind S the water in tlle old pots was then found to be at 97 degrees, tlaat in the new ones at 68. The foregoing observations on the frigorific effect of evaporation frotn porous vessels, will perhaps account, in some measure, for ice beirlg formed when the thermometer, in the air, is above the freezitlg point. And the power of evaporation in generating cold, may be further elucidated by the following obserarations on the effects produced, by its mealls3 ir our houses. May z6, 1792, at two in the afternoon, The thertnometer, in the sun, with a hot westerly windS rose to 18 clegrees. Ditto, in the shade, butSexposed to the hot wind o oittoO Ditto, in the house7 which was kept cool by tatties 87 dittOe June 7. Thermometer, in the sun XS clegrees I)itto, in the shade, and hot wind xo (littoe Ditto, in the llousen cooled by tatties ^ Y^ dit-tot on the Method of mak;g Ice at Benares :: zgt Tatties are a kind of mat made of fresh green bushes or long roots, like snake-root S they are affised l:o the door or window fralnes, and kept corlstantly sprinkled wsth watera The degree of cold produced by their means is supposed to be in proportion to the heat of the wind which passes through them, as on that depends the quantity of earaporation. I ams &co Benares, October I, 1 792 J . LL . WI LL IAMS. 