V O ~ a Fig:6. a Fig:4. P A W I M D e A A K L Fig:8. b b F e ~ Fig:5. g g c c b Z Y m m a C F i i l ~ k k D C n n h h I F G Fig:7. i i o B H A Some Observations in the Dissection of a Ratt, communicated by Mr. R. W. S.R.S. THE Fore-Feet of a Rat resemble those of the Castor. The Hair is also some Fine, some Course; as in that Animal. The Tail scaly, with Hairs between every (595) every Scale, like the Castors, which shews these two Animals to be something a-kin; and indeed the WaterRat comes very near to the Beaver, and makes it's Holes in the bank-sides of Ponds after the same manner. The Penis in the Rat has a particular Passage near the Navel, as in Squirrels; and not at the Anus, as in the Castor. The Liver is full of little Specks as big as Pins Heads, which are the little Glands thereof. There was no Gall-Bladder, but a Ductus Felleus; possibly the Bladder was inclosed in the Parenchyma of the Liver, as it is in some Animals. The Caecum was much larger than the Stomach, and in shape like that of the Castor. The Testicles lay not behind, but in the Groins on the Os Pubis. These were like a Bottom or Skein of Thred rumpled up together, which was visible through the Coats of the Testicle. This Thred continued of near the same Size in the Epididymides, only towards the Deferentia it grew larger, as is seen in the Figure. It was tender, and not easie to be unravel'd, so that I could not draw out above Three Quarters of a Yard. The Prostatae lay under the Spermatic Arteries. The Kidneys were whitish with their Succenturiati, as in the Figure annext. At the Neck of the Bladder were inserted the Vesiculae Seminales, transparent and fill'd with the Semen. Toward the End of the Penis, which had a Bony Gristle, were two large Glands, emptying themselves near the End of the Penis,and contained a Substance like Cream, as in the Dormouse, observed by Swammerdam. ~ Fig. (596) Figure the 6th represents, A A, The Kidneys. F, The Bladder. g g, The Spermatick Vessels, a a, The Renes SuccenVeins and Arteries. turiati. h h, The Testes, with the Branches of the Veins and b b, The Ureters. Arteries. i i, The Epididymides. c c, The Crural Veins k k, The Deferentia. and Arteries. l, The Penis. m m, Vesiculae Seminales. D, Arteria Magna. n n, Two Glands,from whence a thick Juyce might be e, Vena Cava. press'd out. o, The Balanus. 