An Extract of the French Journal des Scavans, concerning a New Invention of Monsieur Christian Hugens de Zulichem, of very exact and portative Watches. THE Watches of this Invention being made in small, shall serve for very exact Pocket-watches,and when made greater, shall (273) shall be useful every where else, and particularly to find the Longitudes both by Sea and Land, forasmuch as their movement is regulated by a principle of Equality, as that of Pendulum's is Cycloid, and that no kind of carriage shall be able to stop them. The secret of the Invention consists in a Spiral Spring, fastned by its innermost end to the Axis or Arbre of a poised Palance (bigger and heavier then is usual) which turns upon its pivots; and by its other end to a piece that is fast to the watchplate. Which spring, when the Ballance-wheel is once set a going, alternatly shuts and opens its spires, and with the smal help it hath from the watch-wheels, keeps up the motion of the Ballancewheel, so as that, though it turn more or less, the times of its reciprocations are always equal to one another. In Fig.4. Tab.1.the upper plate of theWatch is A B: TheCircular Ballance-wheel, C D, of which the Arbre is E F: TheSpring turned spirally, G H M, fastned to the Arbre of the Ballance-wheel in M, and to the piece that is fast to the Watch plate, in G; all the spires or windings of the Spring being free without touching any thing. N O P Q is the Cock, in which one of the pivots of the Ballance wheel turns; R S is one of the indented Wheels of the Watch, having a ballancing motion, which the Ballance-Wheel of rencontre gives to it. And this Wheel R S catches in the pinion T, which holds on the Arbre of the Ballance, of which by this means the motion is entertained as much as is necessary. An Extract of a Letter, lately written to the Publisher by Dr, Swammerdam, of an unusual Rupture of the Mesentery. Cu M advos iret Cl. Dn C, & quareret ex me an aliquid literarum per ipsum ad Te curare vellem, nec suppeteret aliud seri. bendi argumentum, praesentem casum rariorem vobis communitare volui. Figura adjecta repraesentat Convolvulum sive Affectum Iliacum lethalem, exruptura & circumvolutione Mesenterii intestina consiringentis,~. * A A. Intestinum Ileum,chylo, flatu & ingestis mirum * V. Tab.2 in medum turgens atq, inflammatum. B B. Mesenterium ~, constituens vinculum quoddam, intestina sunesto sato circumligans. CC. (274) C C. Notatum Vinculum, ex rupto Mesenterio ortum, ac, capreoli fere in modum, intestina nectens. D D. Vinculum ~ seorsim delineatum, una cum ejus capreolo, duabus circumductionibus constans. E E. Convolvulus intestini, seu Ilei pars, vinculo fortiter coarctata, ac sphacelo proxima; a quo alvus omninb adstricta fuit, adeo ut tenuium intestinorum contenta, vomitu fere continuo, sursum propulsa fuerint. F. Ileipars, violenta illa at incomprehensibili trajectione intestini per ligamentum D D contra naturam extensa, atq, intestinum quoddam caecum mentiens. G. Ilei extremum, ubi in Colon degenerat. H. Colon modice contractum, & naturaliter se habens. L. intestinum caecum. Hanc observationem paucis abhinc diebus, praesentibus D D de Penyn & Dortmont, Nosocomii nostri Medicis, nec non Clar. viro D. ~, habuimus. Vale. Dab. raptim, Amstelodami, 9 Octob. 1674. A Letter of Mr. Martin Lister, containing his Observations of the Astroites or Star-stones; communicated to the Publisher Jan. 19. 1673. S I R, You are pleased to tell me, that my Notes concerning certain Stones figured like Plants, found in the mountains of Craven, were well received *. This encourages me to give you the trouble of what I have observ'd of the Astroites; which are stones also pointed like the other, but not found, that I know of, in the same Rocks. And we must cross the plain Country, and seek for them hard under the Yorkshire Woolds: For, what store I could procure of them, were brought me from Bugthorp and Leppington. At the former place, my self have seen them dugg out of a certain blew clay on the banks of a smal rivulet, betwixt the Town and the foot of the Woolds. There are plenty of them washed into the brook; but the most fair and solid are those we get out of the Clay. * See N. 100. of these Tracts. I pretend not, to discover to you their Original, no more than I did of the Entrochi; but having used some diligence in causing the places, where they are found, to be a litle more searched than is (275) is usual, I was by that means furnish't with a good quantity of them; which gave me the opportunity to make the following Observations. What light may be hence had, I leave to more judicious persons, acknowledging my self at present not to be able to demonstrate (if they are not Stones of their own kind,) what they have been before petrification. It is very litle and inconsiderable, what any Author, that I have yet seen, hath said of them; save a very brief description of them in Gesner, and the like in Wormius; in the rest, all is transcribed. The Matter and substance of these Stones, if broken, is flintlike, of a dark shining politure; but much softer, and easily corroded by an acid Menstruum. Vinegar, indeed, makes them creep; but a stronger spirit, as of Niter, tosses them. I doubt not, but they will readily calcine, as the Belemnites, to a very strong and white Lime. These Stones (as we now find them) are all Fragments; as we have noted of the Entrochi: Either one single joint, or 2, 3, or more joints set together, making a pentagonous Cylindrical figure or five-sided column. And I have not yet had any piece much above one inch long, which consisted of 18 joints; but I have seen one piece, somewhat shorter than the former, which had 25 joints. These last thin jointed pieces are quite of a different make, as to all circumstances, from the other, as will appear. Every joint consists of 5 Angles, which are either drawn out and sharp, and consequently the sides of pieces, made up of such joints, are deep-channeled; (and this is the condition ofsome of the thickjointed pieces, as well as of all the thin-jointed ones;) or the Angles are blunt and round, and the sides plain or very litle hollowed. There are as big, and as smal pieces of this sort, as of any other more sharp-angled; and therefore I account them a 3d. species of Star-stone. And of this sort was, I guess, that piece which Wormius describes; which therefore, he saith, is more like the blown Flower of Pentaphyllum, than a Star. Besides, the manner of the engraving of the joints in every one of the 3 respective species is also very different, as will be declared. Where the joints are thin or deep, they are so equally throughout the whole piece; yet are there some, but very few, exceptions to this also, of pieces which consist of joints of unequal thickness. (276) ness. Many of the thick-jointed pieces have certain joints a thought broader, or a very litle standing out at the Angles, and thereby the joints are distinguish't into certain Conjugations of 2, 3, or more joints: And these Conjugations are very observable in the thin-jointed stones, and are marked out with a sett of Wyers; of which by and by. The thickest piece, which hath yet come to my hands, is not above one inch and a half about, and those very rare too: From which size to that of a smal pin, I have all the intermediat proporons; and these so exceeding smal pieces are as exactly shaped, as the greatest. Most pieces, if not all, of any considerable length, are not straight, but visibly bent and inclining. All the pieces of any sort are much of an equal thickness, or but litle tapering; yet one of the ends, by reason of a Top joint, is visibly the thickest. This Top joint hath 5 blunt Angles, and is not hatched or engraven, or but very faintly, on the outside. Every joint else of a piece (save the top-joint) is an Intaglia, and deeply engraven on both sides alike; and will accordingly serve for a Seal. The middle of each angle is hollow, and the edges of the angles are thick furrowed: The terminations of these hatchings are the indented futures, by which the joints are set together; the ridges of one joint being alternately let into the furrows of the other next it. The Hatchings of the flat-sided pieces are in circular lines; but of the other two species, they are straight lines, or near the matter. In the very center of the 5 angles is a smal hole, conspicuous in most joints. Note also, that in the middle of each joint, betwixt angle and angle; in the very future, is another such like smal pinhole very apparent, if the stones be first well scoured. Besides all the former particulars, there may be observ'd, in the deep-jointed pieces, just under the top-joint, above described, the Vestigia of certain Wyers rather than branches; and sometimes 2, 3, or more of the joints of the Wyers yet adhering. These Wyers are ever five in number, viz. one in the middle or hollow part betwixt angle and angle. Again, in thin jointed pieces there are ever five of these Wyers, or a sett of them inserted into every conjugation of joints; so that it were some representation of the thing, to imagine the stalk of Asperula or Equisetum Also I have seen, but that very rarely, (not in one piece amongst 500,) a sett of Wyers (277) Wyers in the middle of a deep-jointed piece. One thin-jointed piece I have by me, where a Wyer of 20 joints and upwards (and how much longer they may be, I know not,) lyes double within the hollow side, and by that accident was preserved in its natural place. Further, some lumps of Quarry I have from the same place above-nam'd, where the Wyers as well as the Stones themselves are seen in long pieces. It is no wonder, that these Wyers are knocked off, and but very rarely found adhering to the Stones they belong to, being very small and slender, of a round figure and smoothjointed, being sett together per harmoniam and not indented ~ture. Nothing that I can think of, is so like these Wyers, as the antennae of Lobsters. Lastly, some of these Wyers are knotted, and others of them fairly subdivided or branched. I have, by the assistance of Mr. Lodge, illustrated all these particulars with Figures: Of which this is the Explication; * * See Tab.2. 1. The Top-joint of an Astroites, figur'd on both sides; on the one it is deep engraven, on the other the hatches are scarce visible. Also the ends of the 5 Angles are very blunt. 2. A second or sharp-angled joint with fair hatchings on both sides. 3. A piece with very narrow and sharp angles. Also the Topjoint designed, as it naturally appears smooth and without hatchings. 4. A round-angled joint. 5. A flat-sided piece; where the hatchings are somewhat Circular. 6. A thin-jointed piece: Where note also, that the angles are much narrower, and of a protracted Oval figure. 7. The biggest piece I have yet seen. Note also its bending. 8. The smallest piece I have yet met with. 9. The longest piece; where every 4th joint is a thought bigger or more prominent than the rest; as in the 7th fig. also is well designed. 10. A large and round-angled or flat-sided piece; to which belongs that single joint noted fig.4. 11. A flat or not hollow-sided piece; of which sort also is the 5th figure: The 10th and 4th not much differing. 12. A thin-jointed piece; where the conjugations are marked O o ou (278) out by the vestigia of the several sets of Wyers or branches. 13. A piece where the joints are un-equal in thickness. 14. A piece with some part of the Wyers yet adhering in their natural order at the biggest end of the piece. 15. A thin-jointed piece; where note on the left side a single Wyer accidentally preserved in its natural place, though snapt asunder. 16. A thick-jointed piece with a set of Wyers in the middle of it. 17. A good long piece of a Wyer, and a single joint thereof. So far Mr. Lister: To which we cannot but add Mr. Rays Notes upon these very Observations. I was much taken, (saith he to Mr. Lister) with your Observations concerning the Star-stones, and-inform'd in several particulars. For, although I had often seen, and my self also sometimes gather'd of those bodies; yet I did never curiously note the texture, parts and differences of them. As for their Original, if you can allow the Trochites and Entrochi to have been fragments of Rock-plants, I see not, why you should make any difficulty of admitting these to have been so too; the several internodia being alike thin in both, and the Commissures not much different; only the external figure doth not correspond. But it is to be considered, that many of the Trochites have a pentagonous hole in the middle of them, which if we admit for the receptacle of the pith, it will be as hard to exemplifie such a figur'd pith, as such a figur'd stalk in Land-plants. Your note concerning the Wyers springing out of the furrows or concave angles of some of the internodia, and encircling the stalk like the leaves of asperula or equisetum, was surprising; and seems to me to argue these bodies to belong to the genus of Vegetables; no less than Coral, Coralline, and the several sorts of Pori; some of which are also jointed: But no vegetable, either of Land or Sea, that I know of, hath such frequent joints and short or thin internodia; and so they are things of their own kind, whose species is, for ought we know, lost. If they were Vegetables, I guess they were never soft; but grew upon the rocks like Coral, and the other Stone-plants, just now mention'd; hard as they are. As for Equisetum, we know, that the Leaves of some sorts of it are jointed, as well as the Stalk: Else I know no plant that hath jointed leaves; except some sorts of Rush grass; though those bristles of equisetum surrounding the stalk, neither these reputed leaves of Rushgrass, can properly be call'd Leaves, being round, and having no difference (279) ference of upper and lower superficies. Now that I have upon this occasion mention'd equisetum, give me leave to mind you of what I have already publish'd to the world; That I have found, on the banks of the river Tanar in Piedmont, plenty of the fragments of the stalks of equisetum perfectly petrified, with litle or no increase of bulk, so exactly like the plant, that all the ~ did all along clearly appear. The colour of these petrified stalks was white. Fig.2. ~ M Meridienne L T Marcui Sourdon N N R V I K ~ Fig.3. G H The Watch of M P F P E of M. Hugens. B C T ~ D F x ~ E ~ O C G N A R 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 89 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Transact ~. Tab.2 D H A D G I F O C E B B E A 