PRESENTS RECEIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, From November -ito to fuly i8it1 WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS. 1810, 1'RESENTS. DONORS. Wev. 1s. Relation de BE :ypte par Abd-Allatif, Mede cin M. Slve stre de Sacy. Arabe de Bagduad. Traduit par M. Silvestre de Sacy. Pari;, i8io. 4 Gramriaire Arabe par A. J. Silvestre de Sacy. Paris. t8to. Z Vols. 80 Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la BiblioThe N itio.fal Institute t&eque Imperiale et auitres Bibliothaques, publies of Fr-ance. par l'Institut de France. Tome 8. Paris, 8Io. Traite complet th6orique et pratique sur les Abeilles M. Feburier. par M{. Feburier. Paris, i8io. 8 Gouvernerne nt des Arbres a Fruit par 1'ATCur, par M. M. Rosc, l'Abbe, et M, N.B esc, I 'Abeb, et FebArier. 80 Fcburier. Observationse sur la Vegvtationl de la Trulipe, par M. Feburier. M. Feburier. g0 Ex ose' des Effzts de la Contagion Nomenclative, M. Slge, 2 Copf'es. par B. G. Sage. Paris, 80? TIhe Elements of the Practice of Medicine on a Dr. G. Ii. Toulmin. popular Plan, by George Iloggart Toulmiin, M, D. London, 1 8 10o. 8 The Coriquest of the Miao Tse, an Imp:rial P oem, Rev. Stephen Weston. by Kien unug, fron tl'e Cliinese, by Stephen Wtstori, F. R. S. &c. The Philoserihical Mlagazine, No. 147-150, by Mr. A. Tilloch. A.' illoch A Jocrna! of N:,tual Philosophy, &c. by Mr. W. Mr. W. Nicholson. i h1<,} No. 11x9-1 23 . The Critical Revi e July-October, i8io, and Th eI Pro )rt or. Appe.dix to Vol. Xjt A Disao'tse of some of the principal Desiderata in Dr. B. S. Barton Naturlr iistory, and on the best Mewrns (f promotig the Stuly of this ScSiece in, the Unitcd cDCOCXIt, t E r 394 'PRESENTS, DONORS. States, by Benj. Smith Barton, M. D. Philadle phia, 1807. 80 u. Synopsis Morboruma Summary View of ObservaDr. Robert Robertson tions on. tie prYncipal Diseases incident to Seamnic and Soldiers, by Robert Robertson, M. D. F, R. . &c. Vol. 1 London, s8I O 8o A Clart of the tIslands and Chanuels between Luzon James Horsburgh, Esq. a)md Formosa, by Jarnes Horsburgh, Esq. F. R. S. De. 6. 'The Elements of Experimental Chlemistr by Wmn Henry, M. D F. R. S. &c. Lo ndon, i8io. z Dr. W. Henry. Vols. '0 A Journal of Natural Philosophy, &c. by Mr. Wm. Mr. W. Nicholson. Nicholson. No. 124. The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. Mr. A. Tilloch, 151. The Critical Review, November, I810. The Proprietor. The Hydro -Aronaut, or Navigator's Life Bluoy, Mr. Thomas Cle giorn being an easy and effectual Method of prevent.. a Copics. ing the Loss of Lives by drowning, in Cases of Shipwreck and others, by Thomas Cleghorn. London, 8io. 120 Transactions of the Medical Society of London. The Medical Society of Vol. 1 Part i. London, i~io. so 'Lndon. Pharmacop ia Officinalis Britannica, being a new Mr. Richard Stocker. and correct Translation of the late Edition of the London Phamacopceia, &c. by Richard Stocker. London, 8io. 8? The Principles of Fluxion., designed for the Use of Mr. William Dea lt r Students in the Udyversity, by Williamn Dealtry, M. A. &c. Canmbid ge, i 3i 0.o Me'moires de l'Acaderni Royale des Sciences et The Royal Academy of Belles Lettres, i8o4. Berlin, 1807. 4o Sciences of Berlin. Astronomisches Jahrbuch f ir die Jahren i 8 ioProfessor Bode. i8iz. 3 Vols. Berlin. 8o ,3. A Teatise on Isoperimetrical Problems, an d the Mr. Rob. Woodhouse, Calculus of Variations, by Robert Woodhouse, A. M. F. R. S. Cambridge, 80 Jan. IO. The History of Sumatra, by William Marsden, William Marsdenj Esq. F. R. S. Trhird Edition. Londo , i8 so. 4, Melmoires de la Classes des Sciences Mathematiques The National Institute et Physiques de PI'nstitut National de France. of France. 2 Semestre dc .807. Paris, i8o8o 40 Memoircs de la Classe des Sciences Math6matiques et Physiques de 1' nstitut de France, Annie 1 8o8. Paris, 15809. 40 Memnoirs of the American Acade[my of Arts and The American Academy Sciences. Vo1. III. Part I. Cambridge, 1809. of Arts and Sciences. 4, ,Observations on the Cornet Of 51807, and ObservaMr. N. Bowditch. tions on the Total Eclipse of the Sun, June 16, 1807, by Nathaniel Bovditcb, A. M. 40 895 1 PRESeNT&-. DONO.'SAn Estimate of the Height, Direction, Velocity, Mr. N. fBowditch. and Magnitude of the Meteor that exploded over Weston in Connecticut, Dece.nber 14, 1807, with Methods of calculating Observations made on such Bodies, by Nath. Bowditch, A. M. 40 Application of Napier's Rules for solving the Cases of right-angled spheric Trigonot-etry to several Cases of obliqueangled spheric Trigonometry, by Nath. Bowditch, A. M. 4* Statistica getierale di Sicilia de' S. DD. Gius, Emn Sign. Giuseppe Ernm Ortolarf e Const. S. Rafin. Shnaltz, parte 10. o0tolani. Palermo, ioS a, 4 The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. Mr. A. Tilloch. 152. A Journal of Natural PhIilosophy, &c. by William, Mr. W. Nicholson. Nicholson, No. 25 and iz6. The Nautical Alrnanic and Astronomical Ephe. The Commissioners of rneris for the Year 1384+ London. 8 Loongitude. An Appendix to the requisite Tables. The Critical Review for December, i8ro. The Proprietor. The Transactions of the Dublin Society. Vol. VI. The Dublin Society. Dublin, x8iio. 80 Catalogues des Livres de 1hI Bibliotheqque de Feu Mr. Payne; M. A. F. de Fourcroy. Paris, I8Io. 8S A short Account of the Improvemensts gradually Mr. T. S. Evans. made in deteriuining the astrono.nic Refraction, by Mr. r. S. Evans. London, ii8 . 30 ptr. A Descrip, on of the Collection. of ancient Terra rhe Trustees of the Cottas in the British Museum,, with nEnravings. tish Museurn. ;Lo don, 8 I.o. 40A envw Systern oaC Cheniical Philosophy, Part z, by Mr. John Dalton, John D) tonz. Manchester, i8io. 30 b. 7. The Phlosophical Magazine, by A. Tilioch. No, Mr. A. Tilloch. 1.,3. c A Journal of Natural Philosophy, &c. by Mr. Wim. Mr. W. Nicholson. 1Nicholson. No. 127. The Critical Review for January, and Appendix to The Proprietor. Vol. XXI. 74. Essa)s of the.loudon Architectural Society, Pa1 it . The Londoi Architec-. London, i8-io. 80 tural Socl'ty. An ,Iss.y on the Doric Order of Architecture, by Mr. Edmund Aikin. London, i:io. iol. 38. Jctcrwial des Mines,ou Rcmlueil de Meinoires sur Le (Conseil d-s Minies doIxExploitation 'ics Mines, et sur les Sciences et l'Ernpire Fran1ais. les Arts qui s'y rapportent.. No. 8I-i6o. Paris. ,3 Nouveau Bulletin des Sciences, par la Societe Phi. La Socete' PhIlomatique lom-i..tique. No. I3,5. Paris. 4 de Paris, The Philosophical MlIgazime, by A. Tilloch. No. MIr. A. Tilloch. -54, 9 r. t. A 1 ournal of Natural Philos phy, &c. by William 1k r V. Nicholson Nicl.olso. No iAS. iTe Critical Review for February, 8ssi., ThProprietor.. 396S PRESE NTS. DONORS Facts and Observatiolir relating to the Temple The Treasurer andI'aCh.rcbh, arid the Monunuments contained in it. ter ot the Belch of the London, i0i. 40 Inner remiple. A SFerwoti 1ri eachi d in the Cathedral Church of The Rev. Cha. TurnorD Li ?i Anmc l3 Agust 5, i8io, before the JuIges of Ass ize ) the Rev. Charles Turmor, A. M. LinC 01n s8 io 40 4p '. 4.Popooals, with the Measures anid Plan detailed, for George Edwards, EsT rectN xy'm public Affairs with prlva te Grievances, and instituting the hajpy and divii e Order of 'Things inteded for Mankind, by George Edwards, Lq. M. D. LonDon, 18I1. 2 Vols. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, &c. by William Mr. W. Nicholsotn. Nicholson. No. 129. The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. Mr. A. Tilloch. 135The Critical Rcview for March, S is. The Prourietor, S5. HIidu Ifa nticie; an Account of thie Measures Edward Moor, Esq. adopted for suppressing the Practice of the systexnatic M urder, by their Parents, of female lafants, with incidental Renearks on other Customs pectiar to the Natives os India, by Edward I oor, F. R. S. Lonedon., i Si 1. 4 0 Alay z. The frst Reort ofthe Cot-rnmissioners appointed Comnmisioners fo thr : to inquire into the INature and Extent of the Bogs in Ireland. ,,,-everal Boeas inl Irelevand, and thwe p-acticllt ~ 111 i h rccability of drnhn34inR' nid cultivatinry then. i8io. fol. The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch, No. Mr. A. Tilloch. x 56. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, &c. by William Mr. W. TNicholson. Nicholson. No. 1 3o and I 3 5. The Critical Review for April, I 8 1 . The Proprietor. 9. De Anirni Iinortalitate Poema, Auc. Is. Haw'kins Isaac Hawkins Browne, BrOWre, Arm. Edit. 4. London, i8 I . 80 Esq, F. R. S. i6. Tne Surgical Works of John Abernethy, F. R. S. Jolhn Abernethy, Esq. .&c. London, 8x Sii. z Vols. 80 a3. Essay on some of the Stages of the Operation of Charles B. Trye, Esq. Cutting for the Stone, by Charles Brandon Trye, F R. S. London," x8ii. 80 3o. -A Essay to explain the Cause of the principal J. Hamstead, Esq. Plh nomena in Nature, by J. Hamstead, Esq. &c. London, s8 co. 80 ~ ? 13. Observations on Mincralogical Systenms, by Rich. Richard Chenevix, Esq, Chentvix, Esq, F. R. S. &q. London, jiO? j, 80 SYnopsis Morborum, a Sumnmary Vicw of ObservaDr. Robert Robertson, tfons oi the principal Diseases, incident to Sea. men and Soldiers, by Robert Robertson, M. D. &c. Vol II, London, 181x. so .A Manuscript Account of Pan tlat has fallen at Mr. John Fareyr, ,Cihatsworth for Fifty Years, fro:m Sept. 15, 1760 1o March 3 1 10 . fot 397ZJ PRESENTS. NOUC 0.o A Portralture of the Heavens as they app --ar to the Rev. Fratcs WolVnIlsto raked Eye, by Francis Wollaston, F. R. Lonelon, l8 ix i.fl1 27. A Topographical Dictionary ofthe Domirion of Nicholas1 Car isle, Esq. a#zles, by Nicihols Carlsi's ollow aII d Saecre tary of the Sociery f Antiquaries of Lo iton. London, i 8 I i. 4 j ly 4. The Statuites of the ReCalm, printed bN. traind TlIe Comimissioners of of -is Majesty ting George the Th~ird. o). I. Public Records. x 23I O. f0 4o I NEX TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSA:CTIONS FOR THE YEAR 181i1 A fa CONITP, juice of the leaves of; its effects on the ani at eCono)-ly, 1S5 193 AGfection, nervous, on a case of, cured by pressure of the -carotids ; with somne phusioloi cal ', r ~s ; 89 Alcohol, its effects on the animal ceconomny 179 exists in vine ready formed, .h bnonds, bitter , ssential oil of, its extraordinary effects on tIhe dniixral CConoiny, a18% 193 Adtrris, carotid, defcts of pressure on them 94 B BAILY, Fvicis, Fs . On thesolar eclipse which is said to have been predicted by Thales, 20 Belladonna, juice of, its effects on the eye so Birds, small intestines of, an account of an appendix to tbca, 057 BRANDE, W r TH1om.A s Esq. His account of a vegetable wax from Brazil 961 His experinents to asce rtain the state in which spirit exists in feriented liqiorse with a table exhibitinD the relative proportion of pure aicohol contained in several kinds of wine and some other lipuors 337 BizoDu, . DCI EsQ. His Croonian Lecture, on some phisiological researches, respecting the influence of th e brain on the action of the heart,, and on the Peneration of niinal heat, 3 a INDEX. BRODIE, B. C. 7Eso. Experiments and observations on the different modes in wihich death is produce~d by certai i vegetable poisons 17 C Calomel, analysis of -26 CAVENDISH, MR. His experinents on the density of the earth referred to, 376 Clilorie or Ci(orkc aas, a name given to oxymuriatic acid, 3X Corrosife ubla imate, analys's of W CRUICK-SANK, MR Huis e-;periments on the serum of diabetic persons noticed 9w * 97 CUTTING, DR. is iobservations on the effects produced on the eyes by the application of belladonna, noticed 384 I3 DAVY, HUMPuRY, EsQ. LL. D. VIs Bakerian Lecture. On some of the combinations of oxymuriatic (Is and oxygene, and on the chemical relations of tiese principles to inflammable bodies f W s _....... --.* On a combination of oxym' riatic gas and oxygene gas, DAVY, MR. E. Hfis analysis of hyperoxymuiriate of potash noticed, DerbyshI'e , an account of the great dclnudation or, f Q Duct thoracic, not the organ ttirouah which fluids pass to tbe circulatilo O{' the blood, 1 6 DU HAMEL. His experiments on trees noticed, of SW E Eath, mean density of; deduced from experiments on Schehallien, ^ S76 Ea thsi metals of, on their combinations with oxyrgene and oxvnuri atic gas, -_ Eclipse, Solar, oll that sa(l to have been predicted by Thales, 22o L ucido ine, or Euchloric gas a name given to a comhinatiou oXymt Uriatic gas aid ox. retie, properties of INDEX. F tage FAREY, MiR. J. Senne His account of the great Derbyshire denudation, 242 FABRONI. His experiments on alcohol referred to, 337 Fluids, experiments to prove that they pass directly from the stomach to the circulation of the blood, and from thence into the cells of the spleen, the gall bladder, and urinary bladder, without going through the thoracic duct, 163 FONTANA, ABBE. His experiments on the ticunas noticed 201 G Guinea Pigs, effects of woorara on them, 194 H HELL INS, REV. JOHN, B. D. On the rectification of the hyperbola by means of two ellipses, kc. Also some further observations on the same subject; being an Appendix to his paper inserted in the Phil. Trans. for 1802 110 HERSCHELWILLIAM, LL. D. His astronomical observations relating to the construction of the heavens, arranged for the purpose of a critical examination, theresult of which appears to throw some new light upon the organization of the celestial bodies 269 HERoDOTus, his account of the solar eclipse referred to 2 0 HOME, EVE RARD EsQ. Hi's experiments to pr ove thAt Fluids pass directlv from the stomach to the circulation of the blood, and from thence into the cells of the spleen, the gall bladder, and urinary bladder, without going through tlhe thoiacic duct, 163 HUMBOLDT, his account of a vegetable wax referred to 2t62 HUTTON, DR. His calculations on the attraction of Schehallien referred to, 35 7, 363, 371 Hypierbola, on the ratification of, by means of two ellipses, kc. Also some further observations on the same subject. Being an Appendix to a paper on the rectification ol the hyperbola inserted in the Phil. Trans. for 1802, 110 K KNIGHT, THOMAS, Esq. On the expansion of any functions of multinomials, 49 KNIGHT, T. A. EsQ. On the causes which influence the direction of the growth of roots, 20INDEX. L Pg LANDEN, MR, JOUN, hlis memoir on the hyperbola and ellipses, referred to, 111 Lecture, the Bakerian, the Croonian, 36 Alddition to it for the year 1810, 207 Liquors, Spiriluous, the quantity of alcohol they contain, 346 LUSSAC, GAY, and THENARD, their discovery o fthe peroxides of potassium and sodium noticed, 4 M MACARUTNEY, JAMEs, ESQ. His accunt of ar Appendix to the small intestines of birds y MARCET, DR. His letter to DR. WOLLASTON on the subject of diabetes, 1o6 His analysis of inuriate of soda referred %to 16) 1-74 MASKELYNE, l)R. His astronomical obseivations on the mountain of Schehallien referred to, _ 7 Metals, common. Onl their combinations with oxygene amd oxyrnuriatic ras , 2 Millium, native, addition to the account of it, inserted i n the Philosophical. Transactions for 1806, 1 77 Aultinomials, on the expansion of any unctions of, 49 N Kebuhr, of such as have a cometary zppearace n 06 of planetary, . 317 of stellar, 3Q5 Kebulosities, observations of, never I efore published, 273 0 Observations, Astroniomacal, relating to ti3 construction of the heaxvens, arranged for the purpose of a critical examination, the result of which appears to th row some new li ht upon the orgo-rization of the celestial bodies 269 Oxides, mezllic, on the action of oxymurlatic gas on them, Oxygene, on its combinations with the metals from the fixed alkalies. INDEX* Ovzxyuri'atcgas, on its combinations with the metals from the fixed akalies, 2 ldoes Dot affect vegetable coloturs when dry, 29 does, not crystalIlize at a low te perature, 0 i npropriety of' its name -Oxyinuriiac copounds, some reflection o the nomenclature of, ib. P PAR v, CO I,, ML D. On a case of nervous affectioncured by pressure of the carotids; with soze physiological reiarks89 Presents received by the Royal Society, from November 1310 to July S1 I 393 PLAYFAIR, JOHN, EsQ. His account of a lithological survey of Schchallien, mrade in order to determine the sp cific gravity or the rocks which compose that mountain, 347 Poisoons vegetable, experirnents and observations on the diferent modes in which death is procured by them, 178 experiments with, applied to the tongue or alimentary canal, 179 ~ experinents with, applied to wounded Surfaces, 193 R Roots, on the causes which influence tiheir direction and gro vth, 09 S Sheailieiz account of a lithoo iogical survey of it, 347 catal-ogue (f speci'r ens from," 35SEYMOURi, LoRD WEBB. His co-operation with Mr. Playfair in a lithological survey oi Schehaltien, 348 S THIS ON, JA. MEs, EsQ. On the conoitositon of zeolite 171 Sodhim, -a ea sy mode of 'ota i'ling it 15 Sitil t pcrits to ascertain the state in which it cxi ts in fertrented liquors, M 337 Spleen, not the peculiar organ by which fluids pass directly from the stomnach to the kidneys, 1 169 Sar, oia tie non existence of in the blood of 'persons labouring ,tnder diabetes mellitus 96 INDEX. T Page Tobacco, the infusion of, its effects on the animal ceconomny, 186 emp reumatic oil of, its effects on the animal economy, 191 U Upas antiar, its effects on the animal oeconomy196 v Vision, observations and experiments on, 379 W Wax, vegetable, an account of one from Brazil, 261 its properties,e 262 WE L L S, C H A R L E S, M. D. His observations and experiments on Visiol0, 379 Wines, quantity of alcohol they contain 34I WVOLLASTON, W. H. M. D. On the non-existence of sugar in. the blood of persons labourinog under diabetes mellitus, 96 Wooraia, its effects on the animal cec'onomy c 194 y YoUNG, DR. T. His experiments on vision referred to, 82 z Zeolite, on its composition O ft 171 From tlie Press of 1A. BUJMER &S Co. Cleveland-loze, St. James's, Londono 