An Account of some Books. I. A Philosophical Discourse of EARTH, relating to the Improvement of it for Vegetation and the Propagation of Plants: By J. Evelyn Esq; Fellow of the R.Society. London, printed for J. Martyn,Printer to the said Society. A. 1676, in octavo. THis instructive and useful Discourse was presented by the Ingenious Author thereof to the R. Society in two Lectures, viz. April 19. and May 13. of this very Year. In it he first describeth what he means by Earth; then endeavors (455) vors to shew the several sorts and kinds of Earth, as they reside in their several Beds, together with the indications, by which we may discover their qualities and perfections;and lastly,how we may best improve it to the Uses of the Husbandman, the Forrester,and the Gardener; which is indeed of large and profitable extent, though it be but poor and mean,compared to Mines of Gold and Silver. In the second part he not only takes notice, among the rest, of the fitness of our Senses in giving their verdict of the several qualities of Earths; but also acquaints us with the Microscopical examination he hath made of divers sorts both of Earth and Soils or Dungs; thereby encouraging others to inquire and observe, whether the very finest Earth, and best of Moulds, however to appearance mixt with divers imperfect bodies, do not consist more of Sandy or Salin particles, than of any other; and by such inquiry to find out the principles of Vegetation: Suggesting further several Quaere's belonging to this argument; as, how far Principles might be multiplied and differenced by alteration and condensation? Whether Earth, stript of all heterogenity, retain only weight and aninsipid siccity? And whether it produce or afford any thing more than embracement to the first rudiments of Plants; protection to the roots and stability to the stem; unprolific, as they say, till married to something of a more masculine vertue, but otherwaies nourishing only from what it attracts, without any active or material contribution? &c. In the third part he teaches first, How we may improve the best Earths, and apply remedy to the worst, only by labour, stirring, ventilating, shading and reposing; which being the least Artificial, approach the nearest to Nature: Where he notes, among many other excellent particulars, that the bare raking and combing only of a bed of Earth, now one way, then an other, as to the regions of Heaven and polar Aspects, may diversify the annual production. To which he subjoyns several Mechanical aids, (without stercoration) whereby the Soil may be rendred of a very extensive capacity for the entertainment of forreign and un-common Plants: Commending Irrigation or Watering as one of the richest Improvements that ever was put in practice, especially where fat and impregnate waters may be had, without grittiness, or being over-harsh and cold: Teaching also the cure of wet and boggy Lands, and such as are cold and dry, hungry and hot, too light and over-rank; and such as become unfruitful by the neighbourhood of other Plants, devouring (456) vouring the juyce of the Earth; or by the dripping of shadowy Trees. Secondly, he delivers, what farther advancement we may expect from Stercoration or manuring the ground with Composts, and discovers to us the qualities latent in their several ferments, and how to apply them by a skilful and philosophical hand, without which they do alwaies more hurt, than good. Here,he first enumerates their several kinds,viz. from Animals,Vegetables,and of things promiscuous, and whatever is apt to rot and consume in any competent time, and is either salt, unctuous or fatty: To which he adds impregnating Rains and Dews, Cold and Dry VVinters with store of Snow, which he reckons equal to the richest manures, impregnated as they are with Celestial Nitre. Secondly, he notes, what it is we chiefly seek for,and expect from Composts: Here he observes,that amongst these materials we may detect the causes of fertility more eminently than in other substances, partly from their fixed Salts, or some virtue contain'd in them, or rather drawn from without, and imparted to the exhausted and defective Earth; and that by such a process, as, by converting them into a Chyle, as 'twere, it facilitates their being insumed,assimilated, and made apt to pass into nourishment promoting Vegetation. Thirdly, How to treat Composts, so as to render them fit for our service:Which he takes to be a difficulty worthy the heads as well as the hands of the profoundest Philosopher; since it requires a more than superficial knowledge and penetration into causes. How skilfully he hath also acquitted himself of this part, the Curious Reader will best understand by perusing and considering the Discourse it self;from which we are unwilling any longer to divert him by an imperfect account. II. A Description of the Islands and Inhabitants of Feroe, &c. written in Danish by Lucas Jacobson Debes M.A. and Provost of the Churches there: Englished by J.S. Doct. of Phys. in 120. THe Islands described in this Book, are 17 in number, subject to the King of Denmark, lying under 62 deg. 10 m. of North-latitude: Concerning which the Describer gives an account of the Fertility of their Lands and Waters, and of their Inhabitants, besides their Government, Churches, Schools,&c. Among the Observables of these Islands are these following; 1. A dangerous Whirl-pool, near one of them, called Monk; which is most mischievous to Ships in still weather, but avoidable with a fresh gale of wind. 2. Abun(457) 2. Abundance of Herrings sometimes found on the top of a very high Mountain, thought to be carried thither by a kind of violent Whirl-wind, which falling on the Sea is said to take up an incredible quantity of water, so that one may see vast cavities in the Sea, till the water meet again; and what Fishes are then in that space of water, are raised up by the force of that wind. 3. The Rocks, of which these Islands consist, are said to be here and there Magnetical, on which if a Sea-compass be set, it will very much vary in some places to the East, in others to the West. And at the South of one of these Islands, call'd Suderoe, there is another Whirl-pool, in the midst whereof stands an high Rock, on which a Compass being put,it turns round,and is so spoiled, that afterwards it is useless, unless the Needle be touched anew by a good Loadstone. 4. The ordinary declination of the Needle on Feroe is by our Author affirm'd to have been 13.d. 13.m.to the North-west, A.1659. 5. The Tides are strongest here, three daies before and three daies after the New and Full-Moon; and a Noarth-east and a South-west Moon, make highest water in all the principal streams of these Islands. In the other less considerable ones, 'tis high-water at different hours, in some before, in others after,the ordinary time. 6. The famous Whirl-pool or Sea-gulf under Norway, call'd the Maal-strom, is by Kircker and others erroneously said to run down under the Land of Norway, and run out again at another Sea-gulf within the Sinus Botnicus;as this Author undertakes to prove.p.54. 7. The Explication of the Tides, which by others is thought so difficult, seems to our Author very plain and easy, as consisting, in his opinion, in nothing but a meer reciprocal motion, between the Continents, from East to West, and from West to East, and that in great waves: Which he endeavors to evince by several arguments; p.65. Those of Feroe call the Ebb and Flood, Eastand West-fall; the East-fall is that, which with its waves falls on the East of Norway; West-fall that, when the Sea falls back to the VVest-part of Green-land: The East-fall making low water in Feroe, as falling to the East of Norway and making there high water; but the Westfall making high-water in Feroe, because when the Flood falls back from the VVest of Norway, the waves arise and form themselves higher and higher against Feroe, according to the nature of waves; which, he saith, appears by this, that at the East of Feroe the water rises ~ fathoms, but at the VVest, seven; the distance being but (458) but 40 miles in longitude. Here the Author wishes, that an exact description might be made of the VVest-coast all along Europe and Africa; and, on the opposit side, of the whole East-coast of America, and afterwards in the Pacifick Sea, all the VVest-coast of America and the East-coast of Asia, as far as it lies exposed to the Sea; as also when it is highest water at the Points and in the Bayes; besides, how high the water riseth, and how much it falls in every place; and what is their longitude. And further, that these things might also be diligently observ'd about the Islands over the whole VVorld, or as far as is possible. 8. In this Author's opinion, the Stream which comes from the Channel of England, runs into Baltick or East-Sea, and out again, though inperceptibly, and all the East-Sea hath, saith he, its ordinary Ebb, and Flood; which he not only undertakes to prove by the stream of the Sinus Botnicus, but adds, that it may easily be perceived by the little Current between the Falster and Zealand in Denmark, which, he affirms, does orderly run East and VVest, absolving its Ebb and Flood in six hours. 9. The manner how Ebb and Flood is effected, depends, in our Author's opinion, (common to many others) on the Moon; this Planet both helping and regulating the motion of the Sea: On which argument he is very large. 10. The Country of Feroe is provided with many well-tasted and wholsom Fountains, springing on high Hills. 11. In Feroe there are no Trees, but only some shrubs of Tunipers; abundance of Turf compensating that defect. 12. The Air of Feroe is very temperate, in VVinter as well as in Summer, though it lieth so far North; it seldom freezing there a month together; and the frost then being not so hard as to produce Ice in the open Inlets: And Horse and Sheep go into the Fields during the whole Winter. 13. No Thunder heard in Feroe all Summer, but in the Winter there is, which commonly is accompanied with great storms and rains. 14. The Air is wholsom there, free from contagious Diseases; which the Author faith are never found there, except they be brought in by infected people. No Agues observed there, nor Small-poxes, except they come in from forreign parts. Only they are troubled with Rheums, Dysenteries, the Scurvy, and sometimes the Leprosy. 15. On (459) 15. On the Sand near the Sea-side is found in some places a kind of pellucid Stones, so hard that with them you may write on Glass: They are white, or of a blewish white; others yellow: Some of them may be so well polisht, that they setve for Rings: Of these Stones it is thought, that they grow on the Cliffs, and are washed off by the Sea-waves. 16. No Grain will come to maturity there but Barley. They abound in Pastures; and in several places Grass is so plentiful and juicy, that Oxen feed thereon both winter and summer, growing sometimes so fat, that one Ox, not big of growth, yields an hundred pounds of Tallow: Which rich pastures our Author observes ever to lye to the North-East and North; as he notes also, that in Iceland the North-part is more fertile in Grass and Cattle, than the South; and that Green-land likewise is found to be much more given to Grass on the North-East side, than on the West-side. Whether this be to be ascribed to the Snow, which comes from the North and North-East, and is stored with Nitre, (the reputed cause of fertility;) is considered by our Author. 17. They dung their ground with Sea-weeds, laid on heaps to rot, whereby they get good crops of Barley. 18. Their Plants are Turnips, Carrets, Colworts, Lettice, Cresses, Penny-royal, Scurvy-grass, Beccabunga, Sorrel, Angelica, Tormentil and Radix Rhodia. Of these, in time of dearth, they eat the roots of Angelica: With Tormentil they tann their Hides; and with the Radix Rhodia, chiefly, they cure the Scurvy. 19. When extraordinary Snow falls, and Shepheards are not present to drive their Sheep under shelters, the sheep gather themselves close together; and the Snow so covering them, that they cannot be seen for a while, at last the Country-man perceives a damp arising from the Snow by reason of their warmth, and so goes and makes a passage for them to get out. Sometimes when they cannot be found by reason of excessive Snow, our Author saith, that now and then they remain a whole month under the Snow, eating the grass by the roots, and the wool of one another. Their Sheep for the most part are white in the North-part, but black in the South;and being brought white from the North to the South, they will change colour; yet so as to grow first spotted about their legs;then on their thighs, then under their bellies, and at last all over. 20. This Country is well stored both with Landand SeaFowl, whereof some flie away towards winter, others stay the O O O whole (460) whole year. Those that stay, are Pigeons, Stares, Grillings, Sparrowhawks, Ravens, Crows; those that fly away, are Snipes, and some VVater-fowl. Here the Author mentions a Raven, taught by him to speak; which as long as he would teach him, would not go from him, though it lasted two hours; and what he was taught in the day time, he repeated early in the morning, putting the syllables together, till he could speak out the whole word. Amongst the VVater-fowl he mentions one, which he saith is never found on the land, and is called Imbrim; the Inhabitants taking it to be the Halcyon or Kingsfisher; though it doth not agree with the description, commonly made of that bird, viz. That it is no bigger than a Sparrow, and is blew, and hath other qualities not at all agreeing with those of this fowl; which is bigger than a Goose, having a long neck, and a pretty long beak; is grey on the back, chequer'd with white spots; its neck is also grey, something whitish down towards the breast, having a white ring about the middle of the neck. 'Tis never found on land; for its feet stand too much back, and are so weak, that it cannot go with them: Besides, its wings are so little, that it can fly but little. It hath a hole under each of its wings, capable to hold an Egg, wherein the people suppose it hatches its eggs; neither is it ever seen with more or less than two young ones. 21. For Fish, they have store of Trouts, Cods, Whitings, Flounders, Pilchards, Seals, (which last like VVhales, give suck to their young ones;) also a sort of Whales call'd Grind-Whales, of which the biggest are but five ells long, which come in great numbers under the land: They have short heads, and little eyes, a black skin with a white stroke under the belly, and are pretty fat; the head being almost nothing but fat, and the body having a palm thick of fat. They partly melt the fat of the whole, to make Train-oyl, salting the rest with black-salt, to use it as Bacoh. This salt they prepare of Sea-weeds, which they dry and burn to ashes. They dry and eat the flesh when 'tis fresh, looking and smelling like Beef; and what they cannot strait consume, they cut into long pieces, and hang them up to dry in the wind, eating it afterwards like Hung-beef. Forraigners sometimes pickle part of the tayl, which tasts much like Neats-feet: VVhence the Inhabitants take these VVhales to be, and call them, Sea kine. But besides this sort of VVhales, they have two sorts more, called the Roar and Witch-Whale, on which the Inhabitants dare not venture (they are so great and dangerous;) but they drive them away, faith my Author, by the virtue of Casioreum, which usually (461) usually they carry in the head. of their Boats, boring a hole in the wood, and putting of that substance in it, and stopping it with a peg: Others inclosing it in a piece of wood, to which they fasten their fishlines; and carrying it always with them in their Boats. Now when these Whales come under those Boats, or that they cast that piece of wood upon it, they sink to the bottom like a stone, as if they could not endure the smell of the Castoreum. So much of the Natural Observations; the Moral and Political, as not belonging to the design of these Tracts, we leave here untouched. III. The Gentleman's Recreation in four Parts; viz. Hunting, Hawking, Fowling, Fishing. Collected from Ancient and Modern Authors, Forreign and Domestick, and rectified by the Experience of the most skilful Artists of these times. London, in octavo, 1674. HAving given a Breviat long since (Vol.3.num.37.) of. the Sieur Salnove, the chief Master of the Royal Game in France; (these Games containing much of Natural; Artificial and Experimental Philosophy, and asserting Man's dominion over Animals;) I think it may be expected, that I should take notice of this our Complete English Author: since England hath a Reputation for Forrests, Chases, Parks, Lawns, Champian-fields, Plains, Hills and Boscage; as also for expert Hunters, excellent Horses, and no less excellent Dogs of all sorts, proper for every kind of Game. It was in the Age of Augustus Caesar, that Gratius, their best Cynegetical Poet, compared the British Dogs for courage and stout performance with the Molossian, and for craft or skill with the Athamanian, Thessalian and Epirote Dogs, which, in those differing faculties, were the best in the World, that were then known at Rome, where from remotest parts they were often tried in the Theatre. Quid freta si Morinum dubio refluentia ~ Veneris, atque ipsos libeat penetrare Britannos? O quanta est merces, & quantum impendia supra! Si non ad speciem, mentiturosque decores Protinus, haec una est catulis jactura Britannis, Ad magnum cum venit opus, promendaque virtus, Et vocat extremo praeceps discrimine Mavors, Non tunc egregios tantum admirere Molossos; Compar at his versuta suas Athamania fraudes, Acyrusque, Pheraeque, & clandestinus Acarnan. Sicut Acarnanes subierunt praelia furto Sic canis illa suos taciturna supervenit hostes. And the race of Bul-dogs in Somersetshire, to this day, are observed to agree perfectly with this Poets description, for unpromising appearance, invincibleness, and silent subtilty, though mortally bruised and wounded: Whether from the soyl, the climate, or the continual race. And the effect of our former skill, courage, and industry in hunting, herein appears, (which I must mention for the Honour of this great O 0 0 2 Island,) (462) Island;) That our Ancestors have made a clear riddance of Bears, Wolves, and all other furious beasts, which are apt to assault Mankind. And hereby we have had the more leisure, to fit our Dogs for all sorts of English Game; to choose tall and deep-mouth'd Hounds for Woodland; little Beagles for smooth Plains; Hounds of a middle size, where the Country is partly champian and partly enclosed; light, slender and fleet Hounds, where the Country lies open for the fleet hunting-Horse. Every where they are provided of Hounds fit for the Country; and withal, are every where curious to consort the mouths of every Kennel for a rural or sylvan Music, agreeable to chear up the Hunters. And 'tis believ'd, that the English Dogs of all sorts, for the Hare or for the Hart, and for any Game which this Island affords, are as good Dogs as can be found in any Country, to us known. In all which respects, both of Safety and of Pleasure, of healthful exercise and of harmonious Hunting, we may here justly call it The Gentlemans Recreation. And if we use it as a Recreation, moderately, in fit seasons, and at due intervals, Hunting Preserves bodily health and alacrity in our Spirits; prompteth to rise early, and to endure the dews of the Morning, and the casualties of harder weather. It gets a stomach for ordinary viands, and renders them more pleasant than hautgouts. It hardens against effeminacy, as they report of Hippolytus. It enables to sit well and firmly on Horseback; and strengthens the back for the great Saddle, and for greater services, when publick occasions require them. Thus much for the Authors Title,and for English Huntsmen, and for British Horses and Dogs.I shall only add,that about three hundred years after Gratius, Nemesian gives the precedence to British Greyhounds for velocity, v.124.Cynegetic: Divisa Britannia mittit Veloces, nostrique orbis venatibus aptos. Nostri Orbis,faith he,a Carthagenian,but then residing at Rome. For some Ages after that Julius Caesar entred Britain, the Hounds of this Island were so little known at Rome, that it was esteemed and called Orbis Al~; for ought they knew, larger than our lately discovered America. Neither could the fleetness of British Greyhounds be tried in their Theaters; nor is it certain, that the Romans or Britains were then much addicted to Coursing, or could soon know the worth of those Greyhounds: Much less, that they should then know the Irish Greyhound or Wolf-dogs, Canes Scotici (the Irish were called Scoti in former Ages:) Which for shape, size, fleetness, courage and execution, (taking all in one) are the goodliest Dogs that we can hear of. And 'tis hoped, the English and Irish will, in a short time, destroy the routs of Wolves there, for the benefit of their Posterity,as our Forefathers have done for us in England,Scotland, and Wales. 1. For Hunting, our accomplisht Author shews us the Ancient hunting Notes, for winding the Bugle horns, with the additions of Mr. Marsh, Horner, on Holborn-bridge, who taught him to blow a Horn, and (463) and the Note*. He explains Hunters Terms. He teaches to choose Hounds, by their colour, and other marks,p.8,9; as also the choice of Dog and Bitch for good Whelps, p.10. To order a Bitch and Whelps. To enter young Hounds to huut the Hart, II. The nature, rutting, mewing, coats, colour and hunting of Harts,13,24. The marks to know an old Hart, 16. To seek a Hart in his haunts, according to the season of the year,18; drawing in the springs, 19; in high Woods, 23; and when lost the night before,21. To rouze a Hart, to cast off the Hounds, 22; the incredible subtilties of a Hart, when hunted, p.24. To kill a Hart at Bay; to break him up; to reward the Hounds, 29. To hunt the Buck, 30; the Roe,31; the Rayn-deer, 33; the Wild goat, 34; the Wild bear, and in proper terms, 36; the Hare, her wonderful subtilty, 39,40. To order Hounds to the Hare: To find, start and chase her, and what season of the year best for Harehunting,p.45. Of Cony-hunting. To hunt the Fox and Badger, above ground; what Instruments for digging,p.55. Of Otter-hunting,56. Dogs diseases and hurts, and their Remedies,p.59. Of Breeding, feeding, dieting,choosing,kennelling a Greyhound; and of Coursing,65. The Laws of Hunting, p. 69. * The Notes are but these three, -, O, O; which by stops, and changes, and redoublings are ordered to signifie, ~. To call the Company in the morning: 2. The stroaks to the Field: 3. To uncouple the Hounds: 4. When the Hounds hunt game unknown: 5. A Recheat when the Hounds hunt a right game: 6. The double Recheat: 7. The treble, or Sir Hewits Recheat: 8. The Earthing of a Fox, if recoverable: 9. If not,to call away: 10. The death of a Hare: 11. The death of a Buck: 12. The death of a Stag,or Hart: 13. The death of a Fox: 14. The call for a Keeper in a Park or Forest: 15. The prize of a Hart Royal: 16. The strokes for the Terriers, when the Fox is catched: 17. To draw the Company out of the Field: 18. A Recheat or Farewel at parting. He admires the subtilty of these Beasts of Chase; and no less the Sagacity of Dogs, who do never leave the game, but follow it through innumerable changes, varieties of other scents, even over or in the water, and into the earth. How soon a Dog will fix his eye on the best Buck in the herd,single him out,and follow him, and him only, through a whole herd of Rascal game, and leavs him not till he kills him,p.1,2. He shews all along what crafts the Beasts use to defend themselves, (whilst Men raise armies, and bend all their wits, valour, and engins of Art, to destroy one another,) and p.1,2, he instanceth the docibleness of Dogs, as admirable, faith he, as their understanding: For as a right Huntsman knows the language of the Hounds; so the Hounds know the language and meaning of one another, as perfectly as we can distinguish the voices of our acquaintance from such as are strangers. And he gives his sentiment freely, That no Music can be more delightful, than a pack of Dogs in full cry,to a man whose heart and ears are set to the tune of each charming Instrument,p.2. He is in all his Treatise chast and vertuous, and intersperseth grave admonitions upon all fit occasions; and seriously inviteth to this royal (464) al, noble and healthy practise, highly prized in all Ages, p.1; trayning up Youth for manly exercises in their riper age, preserving and increasing strength and activity; diverting from the besotting sensualities, and the bewitching debaucheries of a lazy life, wasted in Wine and Bawderies, which fill the Body with more diseases than a sickly Hospital, saith he, p.7. 2. Of Hawking, at the entrance, He can hardly take himself off from admiring the nimble Musicians of the Air, the heavens aery Quire, which warble forth such curious notes, as puzle Art to imitate, saith he, p.76. Of the heavenly ditty of the ascending Lark, which would scorn to tread on the dull Earth but for necessity. Of the Black bird and Thrush, contending who shall bid the best welcome to the fragrant Spring. The clearness of the Nightingal's Airs, the sweetness of her Descants, her natural risings and fallings, her doublings and redoublings, &c.76. He distinguisheth the long winged from the short-winged Hawk, explaineth the Falconers terms,treats of the long-winged, and first of the Haggard Falcon, compared with the Falcon-gentle, p. 81. more fully p. 121. The ordering the Haggard-Falcon, wirh rules how to remedy her carrying, and other ill qualities. How to know the nature and disposition of several Hawks, and what must be observed from thence, p 89. Of a Falcon,p.91. The manning,luring,flights and mewings, &c, of a Falcon, p.94. her Bathing, when lately reclaimed, and how to make her flying, and to hate the check, p.98. To enseam her with her castings and scourings,p 100. General Instructions for an Ostrager or Falconer, p.94 more fully,p.105. Of the Rammage-Falcon,p.107. To hood a Hawk, to make her know your voice, and to be bold and adventurous, and to know the Lure,to make her flying. A flight for a Haggard, p.108.113. To make a Soar-Falcon,or a Haggard kill her game at the very first,p.114. A remedy, when she takes stand in a Tree, and when coy and proud through pride of grease, and when she will not hold in her head. To continue her in her high flying,p.110,111,116. A flight for the Hern, p. 119. The good shape and properties of a Haggard, compared again with a Falcon-gentle,p121. Of the Barbary Falcon,p 124. The Gerfalcon, 124. The Saker, 124. The Lanner, Lanneret, and Tunisian,p.128. Of Merlin,p.131, Of the mewing of Merlins, Falcons, Gerfalcons, or Mylions, at stock, and at large, and which is the best way of mewing,p.133. Of the Hobby and jack and the way, or manner of Dareing, 136. Of short winged hawks, and first of the Goshawk p. 137. To make the Soar, or Haggard, Goshawk, p. 139. To make a Goshawk fly to the Partridg,p.140. To fly quick,p.142. To help her, or part with her, if she turn tails, and gives over her game, p.142. To fly her to the River, p. 143. to the Wild-goose or Crane,p.144. To mew her, draw her out of the Mew, and to make her flying,p.145. General Observations for keeping, and reclaiming a Goshawk, p.146. Of a Sparrow-hawk; several kinds, the Selavenian, Calabrian, Corfican, German, Vicentian, Veronian Alpisan, (465) pisan, Sabbean, and Bergamascan, &c. 149. How to make a Sparrowhawk, whether Eyess,Brancher, Soar,Mewed,or Haggard, p.150, 153, 154.The duty of a Falconer,with necessary Rules for him to follow, p. 156. And necessary furniture, instruments, &c.ib. The Diseases and dangerous Accidents befalling Hawks,and the cure and remedies, p.158. 3. Of Fowling: He notes, that Water-fowl are in their own nature the subtilest and wisest of Birds,that they seem to keep an orderly and wellgoverned Camp, having Scouts on land afar off, Courts of Guards, Sentinels, and all sorts of other watchful Officers, surrounding the body, to give an alarum to any approach of seeming danger,p.178: Yet these may be taken by them that know it, and all other Fowls and Birds by art, either by enchantment or enticement; by winning or woing, by pipe, whistle or call; or else by engines. Of Water-fowl, whether long-legged, and divers or waders, or web-footed and swimmers. Curious Notes of their haunts, of greatest moment for the Fowler to understand, p.179. What Nets for great fowl, and the readiest way to take them; what Nets for small fowl. Of Lime-twigs; great or lesser Springes. The best Fowling-piece, and the Stalking-horse,p.188. To take all manner of Land-fowl by day or by night, 191. Bat-fowling, 194. The Day-net,195. To take Hedg-birds by Lime-twigs, 196. To make the best Bird-lime,200. To take Land or Water-fowl with baits,202, and to recover Fowl thus entranced, 204. Several ways to take Pheasants, ibid. Nets proper for them. To drive Pheasant Powts into the Nets. To take Pheasants by a Lime-bush. The Seasons for Nets or Lime, Several ways of taking Partridges, by Nets, engine, driving or setting, p.211. To take Rayls, Quails,Moor-poots,&c.218. To elect and train a Setting-dog,219, and a Water-dog, with his uses, 222; their Diet, &c. 4. Of Fishing. The innocent, laudable and profitable Recreation extoll'd with great Encomiums, and with Sr. H. Wottons large and ingenious applause of it, p.231,232.-Poeta ~; so must a Fisher have a natural inclination unto the Art of Angling: And he that intends to be his Crafts-master in this Art, must attend it with hope and patience; and withal, diligently search into the mysteries and depths of this Art; in which, if by observation and practice he attains to a competent knowledge and skill, he will find it not only pleasant and profitable, bnt a reward to it self,p 227,&c. General observations requisite to attain to the compleat mystery, 233. What provision is to be made for Angling-hooks, 235. The best line, hook, float, flies natural and artificial, curious devices for baits,and to draw the several kinds of fishes to the Angle, properly prepared, p.233,239. Of Ground-angling, 245. Of Night-angling.What times are seasonable to angle, and what unseasonabe, 247. Lastly, he ranges all Fishes that belong to our Rivers, Ponds and Lakes,Alphabetically,from the Barbel to the Umber, shewing the best way of taking each sort, with several the most proper baits and devises, according to the best of experiences, noting their haunts and their natures, more exquisitely for our purpose, than can be found in Pliny (466) Pliny, Rondeletius, Gesner, johnston, or Aldrovandus, or any other of the ancient or modern Halieutical writers. All is sound Philosophy, Art and Nature,matter of Fact and confirmed by much experience. These his Instances (amongst many others of note) are peculiarly remarkable: That the stately Hart,p.34. the fearful Hare,p 40. and the cunning Otter,p 56. have (all of them) as many deep Subtilties and crafts, to make the dogs leave the Chase, as any old Fox, 49: That a Hare doth naturally know the change of Weather from 24 hours to 24 hours p. 39: That Fish do foreknow the approach of a showr of rain, and will then forbear to bite; by which Observation, upon the rising of a Cloud, he hath often saved himself from being wet to the skin,p.249: That the Char, a delicate Fish, resembling a Trout, is only to be found in the great Lake of Lancashire called Winander mere, P.257: That the Guinead, another excellent Fish, is only to be found in a large water, called Pemble-mere, through which the River Dee runs: Dee aboundeth with Salmons, and Pemble-mere with Guineads; yet was it never known, that any Salmon was caught in the Mere, nor any Guinead in the River; Quaere p.266: That a Pike,the Tyrant of Fresh-waters, fought with an Otter, for a Carp taken; bit a Mule by the lip, as he was drinking; bit a Maid by the foot,as she was washing;and frequently devours his own kind,p.269; yet will do no injury to the Tench,the Fishes famous Physitian: And when the Pike is sick or hurt, he applies himself to the Tench,and finds cure by rubbing himself against him; Quaere p. 278: That the Eyrie of a Peregrine or Haggard-Falcon was never yet found in any Country,by any man,that he could ever hear or read of,p.122:That she takes a largeLiberty to her self,for her abode,either by Sea, or Land, and is so absolute in her power, that all flying-Fowl stoop under her Subjection; nay, that the Teircel-gentle, which is her natural Male, dares not sit by her,or come near her residence, but only in cawking Time, and that is in the Spring; and then, for procreation sake, she will admit him to come near her with Submission, which he manifests with bowing his head at his approach, and by calling, and cowring with his Wings,as the young ones do; in testimony how fearful he is of incurring her displeasure,p.82: That this generous Falcon flys to such a height, that being lost to the sight of Mortals, she seems to converse with heaven alone; yet such is her loyalty and obedience to her Master, that a word from his mouth shall make her stoop and condescend,p. 75. Thus much extracted only for a Taste of the Philosophy of Animals; of the Providence, Wit,and wiles of Beasts,Fowls, Fishes, &c. to secure their own safety; and (on the other side) the courage, sagacity, gallantry, sidelity and obedience of Dogs and Hawks,to serve Mankind in the acquest of his Dominion and Soveraignty over theLand,the Waters, and the Air; as a touch at some of their peculiarities. 