IV. A Letter from Mr. Halley at Chester, giving an Account of an extraordinary Hail in these Parts, on the 29th of April last. S I R, I Promised Sir John Hoskyns last Week, to send the Society an Account of a very extraordinary Hail, that fell in these Parts on the 29th of April last, since which I have farther enquired into the Circumstances of it, in order to make the Relation as exact as I might. The Vapour that disposed the Aqueous Parts thus to congeal came with a South-West Wind out of Carnarvan-shire, passing (571) passing near Snowdon with a horrid black Cloud, attended with frequent Lightnings and Thunder. As yet, I hear no further of it Westward, than out of Denbighshire, where it left St. Asaph to the right, and did much Damage between it and the Sea, breaking all the Windows on the Weather side, and killing Poultry and Lambs, and at Sir John Conwey's at Desert, a stout Dog; and in the North part of Flint shire several People had their Heads broke, and were grievously bruised in their Bodies. From Flint-shire it crossed over the Arm of the Sea that comes up to Chester, and was only felt in Cheshire, at the very N. W. Corner of the Peninsula, call'd Wirall, between the AEstuaria of Chester and Leverpoole, at a Town call'd W. Kirkby, where it Hail'd but for three Minutes, it being on the extream Point thereof, on the right hand, but it Thundred dreadfully, and was here, about Three in the Afternoon; but the main Body of it fell upon Lancashire, in a right Line from Ormskirk to Blackborn,which is on the Borders of York shire; and whether it cross'd the Ridge of Hills into York-shire, we know not, but the breadth of the Cloud was about two Miles; within which Compass it did incredible Damage, killing all sorts of Fowl and small Creatures; and scarce leaving any whole Panes in any of the Windows where it passed: but which is worse, it plowed up the Earth, and cut of the Blade of the green Corn, so as utterly to destroy it, the Hail-stones burying themselves in the Ground; and the Bouling-greens where the Earth was any thing soft, were quite defaced, so as to be rendred unserviceable for a time. This I had from an Eye Witness, The Hail-stones, some of which weighed five Ounces, were of differing Forms, some round, some half round, some smooth, others embossed and crenulated, like the Foot of a Drinking-glass, the Ice very transparent and hard, but a snowy Kernel was in the Q q q q 2 midst (572) midst of most of them, if not all; the force of their Fall argued them to fall from a great Height. These are the Circumstances have yet occurr'd; next Week when I go to Snowdon, I may chance to find the beginning of this Hail, at least trace it as far as the Sea; and perhaps you may hear further of it out of York shire, beyond York, towards Burroughbrigg, and Rippon. What I take to be most extraordinary in this Phaenomenon is, that such a sort of Vapours should continue undisperst for so long a Tract, as above sixty Miles together, and in all the way of its Passage occasion so extraordinary a Coagulation and Congelation of the watry Clouds, as to encrease the Hail-stones to so vast a Bulk in so short a Space as that of their Fall. Yours, &c. 