A Letter from Dr W. Musgrave, F. R. S. to Dr Hans Sloane, S. R. S. concerning Hydatides voided by Stool. THo the Particulars, discharg'd preternaturally by Stool, have been of very different sorts; and tho Hydatides have been found in several parts of the Body, and (as appears from a late Transaction), in the Urine; I do not find they are, from any good Authority, affirm'd, to come off per anum, or to be found in the Ductus alimentaris: An Instance whereof, falling of late in my way, is here presented to you. Y y y y y y y y y y 2 In (1798) In April last, I was desired, together with my Friend, Dr C. of Tiverton, to see a Woman of that Town, named Mrs Pear. She is about 30, of a tender Constitution; had an ill habit of Body, and about Candlemas last a Fever; which continuing near three weeks, was at length overcome by Testaceous Powders, Alexipharmacs, but chiefly by the Cortex. In this Fever she had sowr Vomitings, and a pain in her Stomach; which remain'd a long time, and, after the Fever, was accompanyed with a copious Salivation; with Wind, and pains in her side, to a degree extraordinary; under all which she labour'd to the time of my seeing her. About three weeks before my Visit, she was seiz'd with a Jaundice, and while taking Medicines (Pilulas & Decoctum Ictericum Fulleri) for that Illness, she brought off several Bladders, by Stool; and continued so to do, sometimes every day, at other times once in two or three days, ever since the first discharge of this kind, to the time of my Visit. These Bladders were of various sizes; the least that came off, was of the bigness of a great Pins head; the largest, equal to a Pullets Egg: They were also of differing Colours; some white, others more yellow, from the Liquor contain'd in them, which was a sort of Gelly, like that of Harts horn, ting'd more or less with Saffron. Before the Discharge of these Bladders, there was (besides the Symptoms already mention'd) a Coldness, and Sickness at Stomach, almost perpetual; with frequent Inclinations to Vomit, and Hysteric Suffocations: Since that Discharge these Symptoms are ~, and succeeded by a Soreness of the same part, as if something had been torn there. The Bladders came off without pain; many of them whole and entire; one of which I saw about the bigness of a large Gall, or Marble Stone: Others were broken, and appear'd not unlike the empty Skins of Corrants, Gooseberries and Plums. On(1799) Only one Bladde came away by Vomiting, and that broken; but, to all appearance, had been large almost as a Goose Egg. The Gelly thrown up with this Bladder, and which in all likelyhood had been contain'd in it, (before it broke in coming up) was thicker, and more faetid, than was found in~any of the other Bladders. The numbe of those which came off by Stool, made several scores. During the whole course of this Illness, the Patient was rather loose than Costive; had no manner of Appetite, and seldom slept without an Opiat. I found her much wasted in Flesh, with a dead pale Look; such as argued her to be very low. She had Stools of an unusual Smell, no way natural, and had vomited a great deal of cold Phlegm. She was very willing to think these Bladders came from her Stomach, and urg'd the following Reasons for her opinion; First, for that, had they been originally in the Bowels, in all likelyhood the Purges (of which she took many in the Jaundice) would, as she said, have carried them off much sooner. Secondly, From the (almost) constant pain of her Stomach, and frequent inclination to Vomit, ever since her Fever, to the time of the Bladders being Discharged. Thirdly, From the Rawness and Soreness of her Stomach, after the Bladders came off. This was her opinion, and these her Reasons for it; and indeed, I think, they may be esteem'd so far of force, as to prove, That some, and perhaps a great number of these Bladders came from her Stomach. There was no appearance,in any one one of these Bladders, of such an Order of Parts, or Organs, as shew'd them to be Insects; nor upon Examination was there any Animal discern'd in the Liquor contain'd in them. Indeed, these Observations were made only by the naked Eye, (for we had not the opportunity of a Microscope:)What Discoveries might have been made by a more strict Enquiry, I cannot say. The (1800) The Medicines given, after I was call'd in, were chiefly of the Vulnerary and Digestive kinds: That which did her most service, (but it was after the Bladders were come off) was a Tincture of Myrrh and Gentian, in large and frequent Doses; and with a proper Vehicle: Under the use of this slight, but advantageous Medicine, from a very weak condition, she recover'd an Appetite, &c. and is now perfectly well. Exeter, Sept. 26. 1704 