[386] Recherches Curieuses, &c. Curious Researches of Antiquity, contained in divers Dissertations concerning Medalls, Base Releifs, Statues, Mosaic-works, and Inscriptions of the Ancients: Enriched with a great number of Brass Cuts. By Monsr. Spon Dr. of Physick at Lyons. 1683. in quarto. THe excellent Physitian and curious Traveller Dr. Spon, having in his preface to these Researches recommended the present Age, from the good performances of the Divines and Lawyers in their respective faculties, and from the happy inventions in his own Profession, as the Circulation of the blood, the Venae Lacteae, Quinquina, and several others, and also from Philosophical discoveries, such as the weight of the Air, and force of burning Metallins devices for Divers, &c. descends to the just praise of our late Antiquaries, Seguien,Spanheim,Patin andVaillant,and then assures us that what he gives us in his dissertations, is altogether new, and the happy advantages of his Travels. The Frontispeice of the book is contrived to represent divers forms of Antiquity, as the Triumphal Structure at St. Remy in Provence of the Corinthian order; a Female figure of exquisite Dr apery in the same place: Cornelia Vallecilla: a large Urn of white Marble wreathed with Ivy and Vines, a Bird picking off the Grapes. The Noble Pyramid at Vienna in Dauphine, which our Author would have erected as a Cenotaph in honor of Octavius Augustus. Next the Amphitheater of Titus at Rome; which is also exprest in a coyn of Alex. Severus in the possession of Segnior Genette. 7. The Temple of Juno Martialis from the Medal of Volusianus. 8. Minerva's Temple at Athens, of which Dr. Spon and his noble companion Sir George Wheeler, treat largely in their Greek Voyages. 9. A Roman Statue at Marseiles. 10. The Obelisc lately found at Arles, which is fully described together with Venus, of the same city by Mr. Terrein. And be[387] besides these, a Roman Eagle, and a very elegant Chapter observed in the ruins of Jassus in Asia minor. 1. The first dissertation of Dr. Spon, illustrates an Ancient round Buckler of massive Silver, fish'd out of the Rhone near Avignon 1656. of 21 pound weight, and 20 inches French in Diameter, consecrated in memory of the most vertuous Scipio Africanus his restoring a fair captive to Allucius Prince of Celtiberia, who had espoused her. He upon this occasion reminds us of the Silver Buckler of Asdrubal, weighing 138 pounds, taken by Lucius Martius. The ten Silver Bucklers and one Golden of Philip son of Demetrius, which adorned the triumph of Titus Quintius. The 12 Silver-guilt Bucklers dedicated in the Consulate of Junius and Brutus. He also represents the forms of such votive disques from several Coyns of Augustus, Tiberius and Vespasian, thereby to confirm his own opinion against the ingenious Author of Journal de Scavans, who supposes it a Basin. This Buckler is near a 1900 years old, now in the hands of Mr. Mey of Lyons. It is charged with Scipio half mantled grasping his Pike; Roman officers attending, with the Bearded Spaniards, supplicating for the fair Virgin, (for the Romans did wear no beards from the 454 year of the city, till the Emperor Hadrian:) and also with the Spanish and Roman Arms. 2. The Emblematick figures, Herma, Genius, Satyrus & Sylvanus, exprest in old Mosaic work, 20 foot long and 10 broad, found in the Vineyard of Mr. Cassair of Lyons, cause a large discourse, as concerning the Asarota, or the Ancient Greek pavements of Stone, representing the furniture or reliques of a feast, so of the Lithostrata, opera tessellata, & pavimenta sectilia, making up several figures of beasts and plants, by the compacture of small divers coloured stones or glass. Which artifices were called Mosaic, or Musiva in S partiani Pescennio, not from Moses, but the Greek ~ and ~: or else because elegant pieces are attributed to the [388] the Muses. The rooms where the Literati conven'd being at first so adorned. Accordingly in the Church of St. Ir enaeus at Lyons is to be seen a pavement Mosaic of 1000 years Antiquity, which expresses Rhetorick, Logick and Ethic's. The first of these pavements amongst the Romans, was that of the Temple of Fortune, laid by Sylla 170 years before Christ's birth. Afterwards the Roman Generals, and particularly Julius Caesar used to carry with him into the Army such pieces for the decoration of their lodgings. And of such the learned Dr. Spon hath found great plenty in Greece, and in Italy, and in France. But in special he praises, besides some late imitations at the Goblins in Paris, those in the Dome at Sienna: the grand work in the Monastery of St. Remie at Rheins: described by Berger: that of the Cathedral Church at Neims, of which see Poldo: and the Mosaic guilt of St. Mark's at Venice. And then concludes with some inscriptions to Sylvanus, and others touching Opera Albaria & Quadrataria. 3 Next follows his discourse on the Palmyrene Figures and inscriptions, preserved at Rome in Greek and Syriack. The former to this sense: To the honour of Aglebolus and Malachbelus, that is the Sun and Moon according to our Author, the Deities of his country L. Aurelius Heliodorus, son of Antiochus of Palmyra or Hadriania, dedicated this Marble, and a Statue of Silver, or Signum with its ornature, for the preservation of himself, his wife, and children, on the month Peritius (or February) in the (Seleucian) year 547. under the Emperor Aurelian, 40 years before Cenobia, the valiant, learned, and beautiful Queen of the aforesaid Palmyra; to whose time Mr. Petite refers that Inscription in his explication of the Syriack writing. Wherein he hath not satisfied the curious Mr. Galland: because it is more then probable the Syriack expresses the same with the Greek. As we see several Roman Monuments bear the same sense both in Greek and in Latin. And Dr. Spon gives us another Inscription with the figure of the Sun, and an Eagle at his breast, consecrated [389] crated by Claudius felix Calbiensis in the Latine and Palmyrene Languages. Then concludes with several Marble dedications SOLI INVICTO MITHRAE not before publish't; noting out of Lactantius, that the Persians represented their Mithra by a Lyons head Crown'd. 4. The fourth dissertation explaineth the excellent Monument at Rome of the Fratres Arvales: concerning their offering, for the prosperity of the Emperor Vespasian and his son Titus, a Bull to Jupiter: to Queen Juno, Minerva, & Salus a Cow to each; and admires the zeal of Nestor and his Pylians,in offering no less then 45000 Oxen to Neptune. 5. The marriage of Cupid and Psyche is celebrated in hist fift disertation, taken from a Gemme of Mr. de Bagaris, the work of Trypho. Where Psyche, or the soul, winged like a Butterflie (which is also ~ amongst the Greeks,) leads his vail'd Bride, the emblem of the Passions, by an Indissoluble chain on his right hand, and a Flambeau in the left. Then he gives us three or four Cuts more, where the departing soul, par levibus ventis volucrique simillima somno, is represented by a Butterflie upon the wing: animadverting that in some Roman Monuments, Psyche is made the Bride and embraced by Cupid, the mind by the brutal soul; of which see Fulgentius & Epiphanius Haer. 36. 6 The next Plate furnishes us with divers Statues without arms and heads,mounted upon squarePillars called Hermae & Termini, from the figures of Mercurius Trivius. With these Athens abounded, and to this day Rome shews several GreekCaptains, Poets and Philosophers in that forme. In special the Hermanubis with vota publica, in a Coyn of Julian the Emperor and Philosopher, is worth notice: being headed like a dog, and bearing in the right hand a Sistrum, in the left a Caduoeus, and on his shoulders a Mantle. To which fashion Tertullian alludes in his jest upon the Senator,Nunc quoque cum sistro faciem portare caninam. On the reverse is the Apostate bearded as he lov'd, with a Mo[390] Modius upon his head,as befitting the inscription, Deo Serapidi. Likewise the figure of the Herma thenae is rare,though the name be frequent. He ends his dissertation with a remark of Salmasius, that amongst the Antients many Gods were of both Sexes. As Luna & Lunus, Bacchus & Baccha, Liber & Libera or Ceres: Aphroditus & Aphrodita, and thence Hermaphrodita; and in Latine Venus mas & faemina. 7. After he treats of the Egyptian Harpocrates & Hermarpocrates: with his fore finger on his mouth, sitting sometimes upon an Estrich, commonly on the Lotus tree, surrounded in some gems with the Planets in form of Birds moving in liquid AEther: and with Characters, partly Greek, partly Egyptian, according to the fancy of the Gnostics, of which see Macarii Abraxas. To these he subjoynes Signa Panthea, and Statues of Isis, una quae erat omnia dea: and tells us that upon the walls of Hadrianople, he espied the following inscription concerning providence, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. 8 The Cymbala of the Ancients were two hallow hemispheres of Brass or silver, struck one against the other, used most in the dances of the Phrygian Cybele. But the Crumata and Crotala were like our Castanets: to which answered the Crupsia and Scabella, for the feet. The Tympana, our Timbrels, were a Syrian invention. The Cithara a triangular Harp, the Lyra, one bounded with S S. as commonly in the Statues of Apollo, and the Sistrum, in shape like a Racquet, crossed with three loose wiresof Brass,proper to the ceremonies of Isis. 9. The square house at Neims, 74 foot long, and 41 and a half broad, was not built for a Praetorium, or a Capitol or Council-house, as Poldo d'Albenas conceiv'd. But by the front with its Tympanum, and by the number of its Pillars, 6 in front, and on each side 11, appears to be a Temple: not unlike that of Minerva and Theseus at Athens, the Porch or Pronaon being one third of the whole length. The like is to be said touching Notredame dela[391] delavie at Vienna in France: namely that it was a Temple of the Columnage called Monopteros. 10. This dissertation comprises the judgment of the excellent Mr. de Pyresc concerning the marriage Ring of Tecla; of an ounce weight in Gold, and inscrib'd Tecla vivat Deo seo, as the Christian then did clinch. 11 There was found at Lyons four years agoe, a thumb Ring of Gold of one Memorinus, weighing four Luydors and a half. Which confirms what Pliny saith lib. 33. that the Romans at length esteemed themselves from the weight of their Gold rings: which were before the honour of Embassadours only, the rest wearing Iron. Whence Dr. Spon refers us to Gorleus's Dactylotheca, Abraxas Chifletii, and the Inventorie of the famous Pyrescius; where amongst others was a Brass Ring bearing a Medal of Julian the Emperor, whose reverse was Isis Faria. The 12. explains an elegant Medal of Severus and his Lady Julia Domna: not Domina, for Salmasius will have it a Syriack word. She is thus stil'd as in many Medals, so in a fair Inscription in the Galerie of the Duke of Tuscany, brought thither from Tunis. On the reverse, the furious God of Wine, in a Charet triumphs over the Orient, (which Severus also conquer'd) drawn by a pair of Leopards, and himself bearing a Leopards skin on his left, and a pot in his right hand; coyn'd at Seleucia upon Palycadnus. This chapter ends with a good Monument of Severus found near Sidon in Syria. 13. Of ancient pictures, which are rarely found: and only in water colours, (for oyl painting is but a late invention) this worthy Phisitian mentions the nuptials in hortis Aldobrandinis; & Rome triumphant, lately found in the Sepulcher of the Nasonian family, near to the Amphitheater of Titus, and represented to the publick by Bellonius. Where you have Roma victrix, sitting with a F f f Pike [392] Pike amongst several other Arms: not unlike Minerva (as she is also exprest inCoyns both Latinand Greek, andSouldiers attending. One of which holds hasta pura in his lest hand, and leads with his right an horse, without saddle or stirrups. The want of which, Hippocrates and Galene make the cause of several pains and maladies in the legs, which the Scythians and Romans were afflicted with. Before this triumphant horse are two Lictores with their faces, which were instruments both of State and Justice, and served to these severe sentences: Colliga manus, virgis caede, plecte securi. Of these the Dictators had 24, theConsuls 12, the Proconsuls 6, and the Praetores Urbium 2. 14. This treats of a navis Frumentaria, or the reverse of a rare Coyn of Commodus; who every year sent Victuallers to Africa, as Lampridius assures us. 13. The next is the learned Mr. Galland his accurate description of a Coyn of Tribonian, sent from Smyrna to Paris: which bears Apollo Clarius with his Lyre within a four columnd Temple, and an Ox at his Atlar. Then for Smyrna and the 12 Cities of Jonia, persons with their hands lift up, ~, as the Coyns calls them: in the Rimme whereof we read, ~. ~ ~ ~ ~. Likewise a Medal of the Antonines, ~. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. ~. ~. ~. 16. You have the letter of the excellent Fr. Redi of Florence, that Spectacles were invented about the year 1300. from the testimony of a Chronicle of the convent ofSt. Catherina at Pisa, Anno 1313. Frater Alexander de Spina vir modestus & bonus, ~ vidit aut audivit facta, scivit et facere. Ocularia ab aliquo primo facta & communicare nolente, ipse fecit, & communicavit corde hilari & volente. And from the preamble of a treatise made Anno 1299. di governo della famiglia de Scan'dro di Pipozzo. Mi truovo cosi gravoso di anni chez non arei valenza di leggiere e scrivere sanza vetri appellati Okiali truovati novellamente per [393] per commodita delli pouveri veki, quando affiebolano del vedere. And also from a Sermon of Fryar Jordan de Rivalto that died at Placenza Anno 1311. which is quoted in the Dictionary de la Crusca, in the word Occhiale, viz. It is not 20 years since the Art of making Spectacles was found out, which much mends the sight: and is indeed one of the best and most necessary inventions in the world. Soone after 1305. Mr Bernard Gordon in his Lilium medicinae thus commends a certain Eye-salve: Et est tantae virtutis, quod decrepitum faceret legere literas minutas absque ocularibus. And Anno 1363. Guido the Chirurgian, after proposing several Collyria, saith: If these or the like will not do, you must make use of Spectacles. 17 This renders an account to the most illustious Angelo Maurosini, of Antoninus Pius his Brass Coyn, from his Cabinet, presenting the three Godesses on mount Ida, and Mercury with the Shepherd Paris standing below, having on a Phrygian Cap, not unlike the Ducal Crown of Venice. 18 The Dij manes employ this dissertation, being rather a Roman then a Grecian superstition; whence the Anthropomorphites took their Haeresie. 19. The Brazen Urn of most elegant Sclupture here described, Dr. Spon gave to Mr. Galliard, and for this cause treats at large of Sepuchrale Urnes:whereby (after the Romans had introduc'd from Greece the fashion of burning their dead) both infection was avoided, and the ashes of their friends preserved in the family. They likewise sometimes made use of Asbestos and Amianthus, spun into thread for napkins,to preserve in the midst of the flames the seperate and intire ashes of their relations. Dr. Gunebault, who hath described the Tomb of Chyndonax, sawin a Venetian cabinet aquarter of an ell of that Linnen. Such stones are frequent enough in NeF f f 2 gro[394] gropont, Cypros, Tenos, and other places. Yet the Romans were not very careful to separate the humane ashes from the rest; but put sometimes coals and all into the Urn. The Urns of King Demetrius, and the Emperour Trajan were of Gold, and that found of late under the stately Column that yet bears the name of Marcellus, was of Silver. The Emperor Severus's was of Gold, or according to Dio of Porphyrie: or of Alabaster as Herodian reports, which that Emperour provided beforehand. Urns of glass are frequent in the Cabinets of the curious. The most common are potters earth: and I have seen great numbers of them at Rome of Stone and Metal, and of Marble. The Urns are of all figures, but usually round and bellyed: those of Metal are generally are embellisht with Sculpture and Basereleifs. Mr. Dafour hath received two from Egypt of Pot-earth beset with Hieroglyphicks, and fill'd with Mummie: which is rare enough from that place where embalming was of general use. These Urns for persons of quallity were either set under Marble Monuments, or else in the niches of Sepulchral Vaults. Such as that at Neims, supposed to be the Charnal of the Antonine family. Not far from Droll, at the opening of an Hillock or Burrough, (of which there are two or three thereabouts) under an heap of loose stones were found several Earthen and Glass Urns full of ashes; and also many small links of Gold, supposed to be the reliques of the antient Gauls. The 20. is the Monument of the noble Poncius son of Ildefonsus at Neimes, Anno Dom. 1203. The one and twentieth is a Female head of brass bigger then the life, bearing a tower: which was dug out of Mr. Berriers house near St. Eustache at Paris; supposed to be Isis, the Titular Goddess of the City, whose ancient Arms was accordingly a Ship. For Isis was President of the Sea. And when Childebert built the Abby of [395] of St. German near the place where Isis Temple stood, he put her Idol in a hole of the wall, which remaind till 1514. Whence in the old Charter the Abby is said to be founded, in urbe Parifiaca prope muros civitatis in terra, quae aspectat ad fiscum Isiacensem. So that the Doctor would have Paris come from ~. As Lutetia or Lucotetia from Luctes. Then follows a very learned discourse of the excellent Mr. Fesche, concerning a rare Coyn of Pylaemenes Euergeta, King of Paphlagonia and a friend to the Romans, imprest with an Ox head. Both which he refers to Isis: because the Paphlagonians came originally from Egypt. Pylaemenes being from the time of Homer the usual name of the Kings of that Country. As Ariarathes of the Cappadocians, Arsaces of the Parthians, Abgarus of the Osrhoenians, Mithridates of the Pontics, and Sylvius for Alba longa: and Euergetes, an ~ much affected by the Kings of Egypt, Syria, and Asia, both greater and lesser; like as Orosanges amongst the Persians, with which Artaxerxes honoured Mordacai. 23. This expounds a large Inscription in the Palace Palestrine at Rome, of a certain Hospitable Colledge, instituted and endowed in the Temple of Esculapius, by Salvia Marcellina, Anno~ Dom. 134. full fraught with subjects of Antiquity and Chronology. And also a large Monument at Puteoli, of the Colledge of the Dendrophori, or Woodmongers styl'd Fabri Dendrofori, in a Roman inscription. Such were the Carpenters or Tectones condemn'd by the Theodosian Code: though Salmasins makes them a superstitious Convention. From the 24 dissertation we learn the use of ancient Medals, Pictures and Statues, (of which Varro, J. Caesar, and Alex. Severus were great Collectors) as to other Studies, so especially to Physiognomy. Nature having imprint~ [396] printed in the countenance certain Airs and conformations, which discover the grand inclinations of the mind. In this Art the famous Campanella was a great master, as Mr. Choner relates in the life of Boiset. Hence Nicius Erythraeus tells us, that B. Stephanius the Poet had the same features with the Statues of Virgil. Others observe, that Numa Pompilius and Antoninus Pius resembled each other in face and manners. And that the Chancellor Hospitalius, a great Philosopher, was like the figure of Aristotle. The face of Alexander M upon his Coyns,his eyes set high and great, with his chin thrust out, speak him haughty, earnest, and couragious, as Plutarch remark'd from the Physiognomists. The frizld hair of Pompey, and his forward countenance, shew his stoutness and ambition. The temperament and disposition of J. Caesar is read in his Coynes, as diverse have observed, and at length Dr. Andreas out of Argoli. Marc. Antoninus his double chin shews his love of pleasure. The Air of King Juba argues him cruel and arrogant. The good features of Augustus declare an excellent mind, a mixture of sweetness and prudence and courage. The little eyes of Nero, his thick neck, his throat and chin conjoyn'd, were no good signs to the Romans: and the stature of Maximinus and narrow chin bespake his cruelty. 25. Here Mr. Labrune gives at large the Rabbines sentiments concerning the miraculous Rod of Moses. Jonathan Benuziel, and the Author of Zohar with others, a~ scribe the wonders done by the Law-giver unto the name of God ingraved up on that Staff; to omit here the fable of an ancient Medras. 26. The Cyzicens noted for dancing, have left a Medal in honor of Anton. Caracalla; with the figure of Rop e-dancing. Asport very ancient both among the Greeks and Latines, as Terence, Manilius, Horace, and others testifie. Nay Elephants, the greatest and most [397] most ingenious of Land animals, did shew the Roman people, as Pliny, Suetonius, and others attest. 27 In this discourse Dr. Spon vindicates his own profession as practis'd at Rome, both from servility and banishment: by the known esteem and honor of Eudemus, both freind and Physitian of Augustus. So of Dioscorides,citizen of Rome by the name of Pedanius. Of Antonius Musa and ofPallas,andNarcissus in the Court of Claudiu. By the skill of three Kings Mithridates Juba, and Evax. Of Caius Calpurnias Asclepiades, rewarded by Trajan with the revenues of seven Cities. Of Galenus, and also Oribasius who obtained the favour and rescript of Julian the Emperor. Though one passage or two in Suetonius's Caligula and Nero, and that of Cato in Plinies History, do favour the opinion of Robertellus and Ferretus. 28. This discourse treats of two excellent Coyns of Malta, which Isle the Phaenicians first inhabited, and dedicated, together with a fair Temple, to Juno or Melitta: whose head Mr. Challon supposes to be represented in the Medals. But they are both Egyptian. The female figures, Isis: And the four wing'd and mitred, the God Mithras or Osiris. Which is confirmed by two brass Idols sent from Egypt to the worthy Mr.Dufour, the one of Osiris,the other of Isis,giving suck to her son Orus. The like of Marble are often found with the Mummies. 29. A certain font at Gaunt near Naples, represents in most ancient and elegant Sculpture Nymphs attending at the birth of Bacchus, with ~ ~ ~. Next the Dr. gives us a fair monument of Silenus, and some Perinthian Coyns relating to the Baskets, Serpents, and other mysteries of Bacchus: and concludes with old monuments of the Nymphs. The 30. discourse is of the Origine and use of Strenae, ~, ~, or New year gift. The [398] The 31. concerning the false prophet Alexander in Lucian, which dialogue he explains, from two Coyns of the ~ ~. Where also the name of Glycon, and a serpent in one with a head of a man, and the other with that of a Dog, stamp'd under Antoninus Pius, and under Lucius Verus, when the Paphlagonian imposter liv'd. Now the Serpents were the Arms as well of the city Abonoteichos, as of the God Esculapius, as ~, Virgil; as also diverse Medals do evidence. The ingenious and learned Author concludes his bookwith some rare Coyns of Esculapius. O X F O R D, Printed at the THEATER, and are to be sold by Moses Pit at the Angel, and Samuel Smith at the Princes Arms in St. Pauls Church-yard London. 1683. 