Accompt of three Books. I. ORIGO FORMARUM & QUALITATUM; juxta Philosophiam Corpuseularem Considerationibus & Experimentis Illustrate, a Roberto Boyle Nobili Anglo, e Societ. Regia. Oxon. 1669. in 12 o. HAving formerly, (Numb. II.) given the Contents of this Instructive Treatise, we again take notice of it here, only to let Forreigners know,that the same is now Printed in the Latin Tongue, after it had been publick in the English since April, of the year 1666. II. METALLOGRAPHIA, or an History of Metals; by John Webster, Practitioner in Physick and Chirurgery.London, for Walter Kettilby in Pauls Church-Yard.1670.in 4 o. THe Author of this History hath with much diligence and curiosity deliver'd therein (to speak of it in general,) the (2035) the signs of Ores and Minerals both before and after digging; the Causes and Manner of their Generation; their kinds and differences, and a description of sundry new Metals, or Semimetals, as he calls them; together with a discourse of their Vegetability, and the Discussion of many difficult Questions belonging to Chymistry. Collected out of the most approved Authors, that have written in Greek, Latine, High-Dutch and English: With some Observations and Discoveries of his own. But in particular, he treateth, 1. Of the Excellency and Usefulness of the knowledge of Minerals and Metals; and of the Antiquity of the melting, refining, and accommodating of them to humane Use; and the cause of the non-proficiency of Metallick skill, especially here in England. 2. Of the Authors, that have written of this Subject: Among whom he chiefly recommends Agricola, Caesalpinus, Caesius, Sarepta Mathesu, Kentmannus, Lazarus Erker, Christophorus Eucelius, Caspar Schwenckfeldius, Martinus Rulandus, Bas. Valentinus, Paraceisus, Joh. Bapt. van Helmont, Quercetanus,Mylius Beguinus,Sala,Faber,Libavius. 3. Of the Generation of Metals, and whether they grow like Vegetables: where the Causes, assigned by the most approved Authors for their Generation,are taken notice of. 4. Of the signs and Discovery of Mines and Ores. 5. Of the Minerals, said to have affinity to Metals, as those that are call'd Cachimiae (i.e. imperfectae metalli minerae,) Marchasites, Firestones. 6.Of Gold,and the several sorts of it,as they are produced by Nature,and in what manner they are severally found;as also of the Stones,Rocks and Flints of Gold,and the striking passages wherein 'tis found; together with some wayes of beating. fifting and washing the Ores thereof,&c. 7. Of Silver,and the several wayes of getting the Ore of it; as also of its Mines, Conditions, and striking passages: of Silver found pure by Nature; and of those sorts that must be purified, (2036) purified, their colors, mixtures, and several coats, wherein they are wrapt up: together with the method used in the Indies of refining Silver-ore. 8. Of Copper,its ore,stones,operation,signs,several sorts, and the various preparations it undergoes before it be pure: together with a discourse of the Native and Factitious Orichalchum; of the Corinthian Brass; and of some other Compositions, which Copper undergoes with other Metals or Minerals; and of some Medicins prepar'd out of it. 9. Of Iron,its ores,Operations,Stocks,Floats,Passages; several sorts of Iron-stone,and of Medicins prepared of this Metal. 10. Of Lead, its Ores,several sorts,coats and matrixes; and some Medicins it yields. 11. Of Tin,its Ores and operations,&c. 12. Of the several sorts of Mercuries; of Cinnaber,and its several ores and passages; and how it is gotten and refined; as also of the several sorts of Medicaments it affords: where the Author discourses particularly of the Praecipiolum of Paracelsus and Van Helmont. 13. Of Antimony; of Bismuth, or Zink, or Spelter; and of Cobalt; together with their Qualities, Ores and Medicaments prepared out of some of them: as also of Native Electrum. 14. Of native Cadmia,native Borax,Talk, Load-stone,Bloudstone, Lazul-stone,&c. 15. Of the Transmutation of Metals; which this Author endeavors to assert; taking pains to examine and open the nature of Transmutations, and to shew some sorts of them, that are common and obvious,and full as strange as this of Metals,thereby to evince, that it is no such impossible or strange thing, as many make it to be. III. LETTERA di Francesco Redi sopra alcune Oppositioni fatte alle sue Observationi intorno alle VIPERE. In Firenze, 1670.in 4o. MOnsieur Charas having endeavoured in his Book, intituled Nouvelles Experimences sur la Vipere, not long since translated out of French into English (of which an Account was given (2037) given in Numb. 54;) first, by Experiments to confute the opinion, that the Venom of Vipers resides in the yellow liquor contain'd in the Bagg about the Vipers Teeth, and then to maintain on the contrary that it consists in their vexed and enraged Spirits; This Author being concerned in this Controversie, and having made out the former of these opinions, as he thinks, by numerous Experiments; doth now in this Letter affirm, that he repeated his former Tryals again and again, and is thereby altogether confirmed in what he then deliver'd about the seat of the Vipers poyson: concluding with more assurance,than ever, that the Venom of the Italian Vipers doth not consist in an imaginary Idea of revengefull Choller, but in that yellow liquor above mentioned; which liquor, he saith, if it chance to shed or spread it self over the mouth and pallat of the Vipar,may make that Saliva poysonous, which moistens the throat of that animal. Whence he thinks, it would be usefull,that the Learn'd Authors of the French Experiments did make new Observations; and if they shall be found conform to those they have printed,and indeed contrary to his,that then it might be agreed upon,that there was a truth discover'd hithe rto unknown,viz. That the Venom of French Vipers consists in a cholerick and vindicative idea of the Fancy; but that of the Italian,hath its seat in that yellow juyce so often spoken of:And that,if this latter prove true,it will be no untruth to affirm,that, if a Viper by biting should have consumed both all the provision, which is lodged in the baggs of her teeth, and that also, which from the neighbouring parts may be furnish't, that then her bitings would not be mortal: which,he saith, he hath heretofore affirmed,and doth so still; although M. Charas deny it, declaring,that one only Viper being enraged is able to kill as many animals as she shall bite. In this Vindication,our Author alledgeth a good number of fresh Experiments,to maintain his opinion; and besides them, divers very remarkable observations, to shew, that Vipers do more easily kill some Animals,than others; that their biting in some places is more dangerous than in others; and that a plentifull (2038) tifull effusion of bloud after the biting is capable to save the bitten Animal, &c. Among the many new Experiments he relateth one, which is not to be passed by; viz. That he had put up in a Glass Vessel the poysonous liquor taken out of two hundred and fifty Vipers, with a design to make various tryals therewith, as often as he should have leisure; but that being diverted by many avocations from accomplishing his purpose, it came to pass that that juyce turn'd to a kind of glue, of the colour of Amber, and after the lapse of thirty days, it became dry and friable, and easily reducible to powder, and that having pulverized it, out of a desire to see whether this powder, being put into wounds, made by him in Pullets and Pigeons, did keep the same force of poysoning; he found, that in a little time there dyed all the Pullets and Pigeons, into whose wounds he had put a quantity of this powder. 