(219) VI. A Botanical Invitation to forward an History of the Plants of Swisserland; by Dr. John Jacob Scheuchzer, M. D. F. R. S. sent to Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. Pr. R. S. to be communicated to the Royal Society. Translated by Mr. Zollman, F. R. S. IT is not my Intention to enter into a long Detail of what I have hitherto performed in Natural History, both in general, and that of Swisserland in particular, lest I might seem guilty of Vanity even in merely relating it. Any body, that is acquainted with my Writings concerning the Natural History of Swisserland, will be sensible that we still want a Botanography, or Description of the Plants, which is one of its principal Parts; nay, that to which I chiefly have applied myself, and I dare add, without Offence to the censorious, which the World has long been in Expectation of: Some Observations dispersed in my Itinera Alpina, published at London and Leiden, have raised a Desire for it among Botanists. It will thence appear to every one who applies himself to a Study as difficult as it is delightful, that I spared neither Labour nor Expences in searching after Plants of all Kinds that grow spontaneously in Swisserland, and describing them in the Places where they grow, in gathering them into Herbals, in comparing them with the Descriptions and Characters given of them by Gesnerus, the Bauhin's, Ray, Tournefort, Boccone, and others, in separating what ought to F f 2 be (220) be separated, in joining what ought to be joined, in resolving what is dubious, in retrenching what is superfluous, in supplying what is defective, in shewing the Use of native Plants, and trying them myself in my Practice. Of these my History of Swiss Plants, which I am now hard at Work upon, is to consist: Of which, and its Method, I intend now to give a brief Account, and draw up a Sort of Plan of it, in order to engage other Persons by this Invitatory Paper, as I may call it, to join with me in this Labour. This Work will be in the Form of Dictionary, to the End it may serve at the same time for an Index. I therefore am disposing in an Alphabetical Order, the various Kinds and Characters, subjoining to each of them the proper Species hitherto observed in Swisserland, either by myself or by others, together with the synonymous Names used by the different Authors, which are again tobe inserted in their proper Places, according to the Order of the Alphabet. I am adding, and remarking, under each Plant, whatever seems to be wanting in their Description by other Authors, or is any ways necessary for the fuller Knowledge of them, or is applicable to Medicinal or other Uses. Besides other Prints, there will appear in the Work itself those of Fuchsius in Folio, I having purchased the Original Plates. I would add all the Alpine Plants, had I some Patrons at Hand who would bear the Expence of engraving the Copper Plates, or doing the wooden Cuts; an Assistance which may be best expected from the English Nation, and their Society. Zurich, November the 6th, 1731. John Jacob Scheuchzer. VII. An 