A B C Fig. 3. A C B Fig. 4. J. ~ ~. The Discovery of a perfect Plant in Semine; by Mr. Henry Baker. S I N C E the antient Supposition of equivocal Generation has been rejected, for a more reasonable Belief, that every Thing proceeds from Parents of its own Kind, Numbers of curious People have busied themselves in Search of Experiments, whereby to demonstrate the Truth of the latter, and consequently the Falsity of the former Opinion. For this Purpose the Animal and Vegetable Worlds have been examined, and such Analogy found between them, as proves convincingly, that their Generation and Increase are 2 brought [449] brought about in a Manner pretty much alike. The animal and vegetable Semina are found to be alike the Rudiments of their future Offspring; and both alike require only a proper Repository to preserve them from Injuries, and proper Juices to advance their Growth, and bring them to Perfection. Glasses (which the Moderns have so much improved) are the Means whereby these Secrets in Nature are discovered to us. The Eye, assisted by a good Microscope, can distinguish plainly, in the Semen masculinum of Animals, Myriads of Animalcules alive and vigorous, though so exceedingly minute, that it is computed three thousand Millions of them are not equal to a Grain of Sand, whose Diameter is but the one hundredth Part of an Inch: And the same Instrument will inform us beyond all Doubt, that the Farinae of Vegetables are nothing else but a Congeries of minute Granula, whose Shapes are constant and uniform as the Plants they are taken from. And as the Seeds of Plants are found by repeated Experiments to be unprolific, if the Farina be not permitted to shed, it has been supposed, that all its Granula contain Seminal Plants of their own Kind. The Growth of Animals and Vegetables seems to be nothing else but a gradual Unfolding and Expansion of their Vessels by a slow and progressive Insinuation of Fluids adapted to their Diameters, until, being stretched to the utmost Bounds allotted them by Providence at their Formation, they reach their State of Perfection, or, in other Words, arrive at their full Growth. If this be granted, the Consequence must be, that all the Members of a perfect Animal exist really in every Animalcule of the Semen animale [450] animale masculinum, and all the Parts of a perfect Plant in every little Grain of the Farina Plantarum, however minute either of them may be. According to this Theory, it is supposed by some, that, in Animals, the Semen of the Male being received into the Matrix of the Female, some of the Animalcules it contains in such Abundance, find an Entrance into the Ovaria, and lodge themselves in some of the Ova placed there by Providence as a proper Nidus for them. An Ovum, becoming thus inhabited by an Animalcule, gets loosened in due time from its Ovarium, and passes into the Matrix through one of the Fallopian Tubes. The Veins and Arteries that fastened it to the Ovary, and were broken when it dropped from thence, unite with the Vessels it finds here, and compose the Placenta: The Coats of the Ovum, being swelled and dilated by the Juices of the Matrix, form the Chorion and the Amnion, Integuments needful to the Preservation of the little Animal, which, receiving continually a kindly Nourishment from the same Juices, gradually stretches and inlarges its Dimensions, becoming then quickly visible with all the Parts peculiar to its Species, and is called a Faetus. In Plants, say they, (which are uncapable of removing from Place to Place, as Animals can) it was requisite a Repository for their Farina should be near at hand to prevent its being lost; and accordingly we find, that almost every Flower, producing a Farina, has likewise in itself a proper Ovary for its Reception; where the Ova thereby impregnated are expanded by the Juices of the Parent Plant to a certain Form and Bulk, and then, becoming what we call [451] call ripe Seeds, they fall to the Earth, which is a natural Matrix for them. According to the above Supposition, a ripe Seed, falling to the Earth, is in the Condition of the Ovum of an Animal getting loose from its Ovary, and dropping into the Uterus: And, to go on with the Analogy, the Juices of the Earth swell and extend the Vessels of the Seed, as the Juices of the Uterus do those of the Ovum, till the Seminal Leaves unfold, and perform the Office of a Placenta to the Infant included Plant; which, imbibing suitable and sufficient Moisture, gradually extends its Parts, fixes its own Root, shoots above the Ground, and may be said to be born. Others disapprove of this Hypothesis, and insist that no Animalcule can possibly enter the Ovum animale, nor any Particle of the Farina get into the Embryo of a Seed: But, say they, in Animals, either the finest Part of the Semen is taken in by the Vessels of the Vagina and Uterus, circulated with the Fluids, and carried into the Ovaria, and even into the Ova, by the Vessels that run thither; or else, Fecundation is occasioned by a subtile Spirit in the Semen masculinum, which passes the Uterus, enters the Ovaria, pervades the Female Ova, actuates and enlivens the seminal Matter in them contained, and produces all the various Symptoms of Conception: In Plants too, say they, the same is effected by penetrating Effluvia from the male Semen or Farina. This Account of animal and vegetable Generation is intended to introduce a Discovery, which may possibly some way lead to a greater Certainty about it. M m m Amongst [452] Amongst numberless Inquirers, whom the Opinion, that every Seed includes a real Plant, has set at work to open all Kinds of Seeds, and try by Glasses to find evident Proofs thereof, I have not been the least industrious: But after repeated Experiments, in every Manner I could think of, and with the utmost Nicety in my Power, I began to despair of ever attaining an ocular Demonstration of it. If by moistening the Seed it began to vegetate, I could indeed discern the seminal Leaves, and the Germen or Bud, whence the future Plant should arise; but was able to go no further, unless I waited till the Moisture gradually extending its Vessels made the little Root shoot down, the Stalk rife up, and the minute Leaves expand, and bring themselves to View. This, however, was not the Thing I sought for: But, some Days ago, mere Accident, when I thought nothing about it, favoured me with a Discovery I had so often searched after to no purpose. Endeavouring with a fine Lancet to dissect a Seed of the Gramen tremulum, (a Seed whereof is placed in the Hole, marked Fig. 1. of the Ivory Slider herewith presented, and as it appears in TAB. II. Fig. 2. prefixed to this Transaction) with Intention to examine the several Parts of it with a Microscope, imagining I might find somewhat curious in the Contexture of its Husk, the Edges of which I observed to be transparent, I opened it the long Way exactly in the Middle, and took notice of something exceeding small between the Two Sides, which I had separated. I stuck the Point of the Lancet into it, with no other Design than to take it up, and place it in the Microscope to see what it might be; which I had no sooner done, than, [453] than, to my great Surprize and Joy, I found the Lancet had fortunately opened a membranous Case, that included a perfect Plant, arising from a double Root in the Basis of its said Case, with Two Stems of an equal Height, each whereof had many Leaves upon it, like the Grass from whence it was produced. This was a Sight I little expected to meet with; and being aware how much Imagination has frequently had to do with microscopical Observations, I distrusted my own Eyes, and examined it every way I could contrive, to prevent being deceived; but in all Positions I found it a Reality. Wherefore having secured it between Two Pieces of Isinglass, together with the Cases that inclosed it, (as in the Hole of the same Slider, Fig. 2. (see TAB. II. Fig. 3.) I afterwards cut open a great many Seeds of the same sort, in hopes I might be able to separate one of these minute Plants intirely from its Theca; which at last I successfully effected, and placed as in the Hole (see TAB. II. Fig. 3, 4). Having never met with any Experiment, that so plainly proved the Existence of a real and perfect Plant in Semine, I imagined an Account thereof might be acceptable to this most learned S O C I E T Y, which encourages every Endeavour for the Advancement of true Knowledge: And I beg Leave, with all Submission, to recommend to your Consideration, how far this Discovery may conduce towards ascertaining the Manner of Generation. A Dozen Lines, in a little Poem called The Universe, are so adapted to the present Subject, that, if a Quotation from myself may be excused, I shall conclude with them. M m m 2 Each [454] Each Seed includes a Plant: that Plant, again, Has other Seeds, which other Plants contain: Those other Plants have All their Seeds, and Those More Plants again, successively, inclose. Thus, ev'ry single Berry that we find, Has, really, in itself whole Forests of its Kind, Empire and Wealth one Acorn may dispense, By Fleets to sail a thousand Ages hence. Each Myrtle Seed includes a thousand Groves, Where future Bards may warble forth their Loves. Thus Adam's Loins contain'd his large Posterity, All People that have been, and All that e'er shall be. Henry Baker. An Explanation of the Figures. See T A B. II. Figure 1. The Beetle, mentioned in the preceding Paper. Figure 2. A Seed of the Gramen tremulum intire, of the natural Size. Figure 2 *. The same magnified. Figure 3. A Seed of the Gramen tremulum dissected, viz. A. One Lobe or Side of the Seed. B. A membranous Case containing a minute Plant, which arises with Two Stems bearing many Leaves 2 [455] Leaves from its Radicle in the Basis of the said Case: This Case lies between the Two Lobes, and, before it is opened, seems to be the Germen of the Seed. C. A Piece of the Case cut off in opening. Figure 4. A. A Lobe of the Seed. B. The minute Plant extracted from its Case, that its Root and Branches may be seen to better Advantage. C. The Case whence the minute Plant was taken. Printed for T. W O O D W A R D, and C. D A V I S, overagainst Gray's-Inn-Gate in Holbourn; P R I N T E R S: to the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 