(2032) An Accompt of Three Books. I. De ANGLORUM GENTIS ORIGINE DISCEPTATIO, Auth. Rob. Sheringhamo Cantabrigiensi, Colleg. Gonvilii & Caii Socio. Cantabrigiae, 1670. in 8~. THe Learned Author of this Discourse doth therein inquire into the Origine both of the Antient Britains, and of the Angli or English; having first described the Scituation, Latitude, Form, Fertility, and Temper of the Inhabitants of this Island. In his Inquiry he finds nothing that may be more certain in so great obscurity, than that the Old Britains were descended from the Trojans, by Brutus, the Offspring of AEneas; and that the Angli are the Race of the Gothick Nation (which he maketh the Off-spring not of Japhet, but of Sem:) Further, that the Getae or Goths did pass through Scythia into Scandia and Sarmatia, and from Scandia into the Isles of the Baltick Sea and Germany; but that under that great Captain Filemer they made an Excursion again into Asia, and having there ejected out of their Seats the Magogaean Scythians and the Cimmerians, setled themselves and their Empire in Asia; whence the Saxons, Getes and Angles, (the ForeFathers of the English) were brought back again into Germany, to the Antient Seat of the Getes, under the Conduct of that Famous Woden (the Progenitor of the chief Kings of Europe) about the year 2910. All which, and much more our Author renders very probable, and in doing so, gives proof of much Learning and Industry. II. A Vindication of HYDROLOGIA CHYMICA, by William Sympson M. D. London, for R. Chiswell in Little Britain, 1670. THis Author, esteeming, that his Antagonist, Dr. Wittie, hath fallen short in strength of Argument against his first Book, written upon the Scarborough-Spaw, and made supplies by groundless accusations, maketh it his business in this Reply, to Answer the most material Objections urged against him, endeavouring to confirm what he had said before, and adding new Observations. And for a further Discovery of the nature of the other Medicinal Waters at Knaresborough, he gives a particular Discourse both of the Sweet-Spaw, and Sulphur-Well, found there; where he propounds some Experiments, which, in the Authors opinion, not only demonstrate the Nature and Essence of their constitutive Ingredients, but by which also any Simple Spring-Water may be changed into an Artificial Mineral Water, (2033) Water, of the same tast and operation with the Natural. And as to the Experiments, which concern the Sulphur-Water, and consequently all other the like Sulphur-Springs, he affirms them to be such, as no Author, that he knows, hath taken notice of, believing also, that they may yield no very small light for the further advancement of Sulphurous and other Mineral Waters. And forasmuch as the Essence of the Scarbrough-Spaw consists, in his opinion, mostwhat of an Aluminous Salt, he thence, taketh occasion to give an Accompt of the Alome-Works at Whitby; describing also the Difference betwixt the Natural and Factitious Alome. To all which he annexeth; First, A return to some Queries, formerly propounded in No. 52. of these Tracts by D. Dan. Foot, concerning Mineral Waters. [Where the Reader is desired to take notice of the great mistake of Dr. Sympson, in calling these Papers the Ph. Transactions of the R. Society; which is a great injury to that Illustrious Body, these Tracts being only the Communications of a single Person, who hath also heretofore expresly signified so much to the World No. 11. of these Books; and still signifieth the like at the end of every year, in the several Dedications of the same.] Secondly, Some Reflexions upon the most material Passages and Experiments, in a late Treatise, printed in London, and Entitul'd, Scarbrough Spaw, Spagyrically anatomized by Dr. G. Tonstal: in which Reflexions, a way is propounded for preventing all Inconveniencies, which may happen to those that drink the said Spaw. Thirdly, An Examination of the German Spaw-Water, as he found some of it seal'd up in Bottles in Holland. Fourthly, Some Observations on a Diffected Woman, who dyed of the faundice. Through the whole Book are to be met with, divers Observations, Experiments, and Hints, which may give occasion to the Reader to improve the several Subjects, which they relate to. Among other particulars, he insinuates, that he knows, by a Dissolvent, not rare among Chymists, with the addition of a Man's breath, to calcine a Metal, via humida, without which (or something equivalent thereto) the humid Calcination of that Metal cannot be perform'd; item, How to melt another Metal (prepared after a certain manner) with the help of one single Lamp, un-assisted by any blast; item, That some Menstruum's may dissolve or break in pieces the close riveted parts of compact Bodies, when yet they leave other Bodies of a softer and slighter texture untouch't: which, he adds, giveth light to the possibility of finding out by Art such Menstruum's, as may dissolve and comminute the hard Stone in the Bladder, without touching the soft membrane of it, and other entrals: Item, That not only Niter is afresh to be got out of the same Earth, it was formerly extracted from; but the like is observ'd in the Minerals of Vitriol and Alome; and, which is more, that the Generation of Metals is not terminated with one production, the Tinners in Cornwal having found after 30 years, Tin (2034) Tin generated anew, where it hath been formerly digg'd up and fill'd with Earth. Item, That taking a pint of simple. Spring-water, in which he dissoly'd betwixt one and two drachms of Sal marine in Frigido (since about that quantity of Common Salt the Sulphur-water in the North contains,) he added to this Solution of Salt in water, about two or three ounces of Calx Vive and the Marcasites of Vitriol (found near the Sulphur-Well) grosly pulverized; which presently became considerably hot: whereupon pouring off some of the Water, he poured into the same, filtred, a little Solution of the simple AlomeSalt; and it immediately caused a precipitation of a Sulphur, and sent forth the very smell, and had also the exact tast of the SulphurWell. Again; That, seeing all Bodies are but Concretions and Hardnings of their primitive Juyces, under various disguises, generally perform'd by the operation of the Air, therefore the Preparation of a Dissolvent by Art, (which may work wonders in this kind) is no more, to him, than to make such an one, as may soften these Concretions, made by the Air, and by taking away their hardness, reduce them into their first Juicy Liquors. Where he observeth, that if it were not for the perpetual Circulation of the Juyces in the Body, constantly transpiring through the pores thereof, we should either become petrified, or be incircled with a Bark. III. A Discourse in Vindication of Des-Cartes's Systeme, by M. Des Fourneillis: to which is annexed the S Y S T E M E G E N E R A L of the same C A R T E S I A N Philosophy, by Francis Bayle, M. D. at Tolose. Printed at London for Moses Pit, in Litle-Britain. BOth these Tracts were lately English't out of French: Of the latter of which, whilst it was yet un-translated, some Accompt was given in Numb. 54: the former shews only, that the Systeme of M. DesCartes seems to have been taken out of the first Chapter of Genesis; and particularly, that his Opinion concerning Brutes contains nothing dangerous. 