(270) III. An Enquiry into a Discovery, said to have been made by Signor Valsalva of Bologna, of an Excretory Duct from the Glandula Renalis to the Epididymis. By Mr. John Ranby, Surgeon, F. R. S. THE late learned Signor Valsalva having some Time ago discover'd a Vessel, which he took to be an Excretory Duct going from the Glandula Renalis, to the Epididymis in Men, and the Ovarium in Women; anAccount whereof was publish'd in the Giorn. de Litterati, 1719. and afterwards inserted into the Philosophical Transactions No 385. I lately procur'd a human Body, in order to search for it, which I did with all the Diligence I was capable of. I was not so happy as to discover any Duct of this Kind, but, having injected the Aorta, I found the Arteries going to the Glandulae Renales dispos'd, as hath been represented according to the Life, in the annexed Figure. Now whether that Branch of the Artery, which from the Glandulae Renales goes down on both Sides towards the Testicles, without supplying any of the neighbouring Parts, might not have been mistaken by the abovementioned learned Anatomist for an Excretory Duct, all Arteries being generally in dead Bodies free from Blood, and of a whitish Colour, I will not presume at present to determine, for Want of farther Experiments. IV. An (271) E X P L A N A T I O N. Fig. VI. A A The right Kidney. B B The left Kidney. C C The descending Trunk of the Aorta. D The right emulgent Artery. E. The left emulgent Artery. F The right Glandula Renalis. G G The right spermatick Artery. H The left Glandula Renalis. I I The left spermatick Artery. K K The Ureters. a a A small Artery arising out of the descending Trunk of the Aorta, a little above the right emulgent Artery. It sends two Branches b b upwards to supply the right Glandula Renalis. A third Branch c c goes downwards towards the right spermatick Artery G G, and then farther in Company with the same to the right Testicle. d d A small Artery arising out of the left emulgent Artery, near the descending Trunk of the Aorta, and going directly upwards to the left Glandula Renalis H. e e A small Artery arising out of the descending Trunk of the Aorta, a little below the left emulgent Artery. It divides into two Branches, one whereof f f goes upwards between the emulgent Artery and Vein to the left Glandula Renalis, the other g g downwards, towards the left spermatick Artery, and in Company with the same to the left Testicle. V O L. XXXIII. Q q IV. An 