C 282 1 XVIII. Description of ana Apparatus frr the Analysis of the Cbmz, pound Infammnable Gases by slow Combustion ; with Experiments on the Gas from Coal, explaining its Application. By William Henry, M. D. Vice-Pres. of the Lit. and Phil. Society, and Physician to the Infirmary, 'at Manchester. Come municated by H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R. S. Read June 23, i808. THE aeriform compounds of hydrogen and carbon, which were already entitled to accurate investigation, as objects of scientfinc research, have derived an additional claim to the attention of the chemist, from their application to an important econ!omical purpose, described in a late communication to the Royal Society.* Yet there is, perhaps, no part of chemistry, the investigation of which is beset with greater difficulty, or with more numerous sources of error; insomuch, that the actual state of the science enables us to attain scarcely more than approximations to the truth, and degrees of probability of greater or less amount. It was the object of the experiments, which are described in the fol. lowing pages, rather to remove some of the obstacles, which present themselves to a successful enquiry into the nature of these bodies, than to acquire such facts, as may enable the chemical philosopher to decide the controverted question repectirig their composition. Results, sufficiently multiplied.Se Mr. Murdoch's paper, p. zX4 Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatus, &c. 283 and precise for this purpose, would require a larger appropriation of time, than I have the prospect of being able to bestow; and I can only on the present occasion, offer an example of the method, in which it appears to me that the analysis of this class of substances will be most successfully attempted. When a vegetable substance, composed (as may be assumed to simp-lify the statement) of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon, -united in the form of a ternary compound, is submitted to distillation, at a temperature not below that of ignition, the equilibrium of affinities, which constituted the triple combination, is destroyed; and the elements, composing it, are united in a new manner. Those, xvhich are disposed to enter into permanently elastic combinations, escape in the state of gas. The carbon, uniting with oxygen, either composes carbonic acid gas, or, stopping short of that degree of oxygenation, which is essential to change it into an acid, is converted into carbonic oxide. The hydrogen, combining with a portion of carbon, constitutes a binary compound of those two ingredients, forming either what has been called carbureted hydrogen gas, or super-carbureted hydrogen, better known by the appellation of oiefiant gas. Towards the close of the process, a portion of simple hydrogen gas is also mingled with the products. Perhaps in no, instance is any one of the gases, which leave been enumerated, obtained perfectly pure, by tile distillation of, a vegetable substance. The a-riform fluids, wNhich are thus generated, are found to be possessed of almost every degree of specific gravity and to yield, by combustion, extremely different results, according to the temnperatUre at whichn they have been formed; the stage of the process at Which they have been separated; and other modifying circumstances, It becomes an interesting question, whether o o2 084 I)r. HENRY'S Description of ant Appratitisfor the these gases, so mluch diversified in their physical and chemical PropLerties, are mixtures of a few binary compounds, with which chemists are already acquainted; or whethecr, on the contrary, their elements are capable of uniting in indefinite proportions, and of co mposing ternary compounds of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon, or varieties of oxy-carbitreted hydrog-en. It would encroach too much on the time of the Ro'yal Society, to enter upon this controversy. And, as neither opinion admits, at present, of demonstrative evidence, I may be perm-nitted, ini explaining the following experiments, to assume that theory, which appears to me most probable; viz. that the a.riform products of the distillation of vegetable substances are mix-0 tures of carbonic acid, carbonicv oxide, olefiant, carbureted hydrogen, and simple hydrogen gases ; or of two or more of these in various proportions. The analysis of these compound gases has hitherto been attempted solely by their rapid combustion with oxygen gas, in the following manner: a mixture of the inflammable gas with oxygen gas in known proportions, is admitted into a VOLTA'S Eudiometer, inflamed over mercury by the electric spark; and the diminution ascertained. To the remainder caustic potash or lime water is added, by which it sustains a second diminution of bulk ; and the amount of this denotes the quantity of carbonic acid formed by the combustion. The quantity of nitrogen gas, in the oxygen employed, as well as in the residue left by potash, being determined by a fit eudiometrical test, it is easy to infer what quantity of oxygen has been absorbed by the detonation. And as it is proved that oxygen gas sustains no change of bulk by conversion into carbonic acid, we may conclude that, after deducting from' the volume of oxygen gas expended, that of the carbonic acid which has been formed, the remainAnalysis of the compound in7ftarnmable Gases. 285 ing number shews, how much -oDxygenlhas been employed in the saturation of hydrogen. If, for example, coo measures of carbureted hydrogen consuwne 200 of oxygen gas, and give zoo of carbonic acid, it follows:, that the carbonic acid holds in combination loo measures of the oxygen gas colas sumed; and that the remaining hundred have been applied to the saturation of hydrogen. In this estimate it is assumed, that the carbon has acquired, by combustion, the wvhole of the oxygen necessary for its acidification, and that no part of it existed previously in the state of carbonic oxide, a proposition, in many cases, perhaps, very far from being consistent with the truth. This, however, admits of being decided by an accurate comparison between the weight of the gases consumed and that of the products. For the purpose of obtaining a general approximation to the nature of a combustible gas, it may be sufficient to examine its coincidence with those, the properties of which have been already determined.. The following table exhibits the results of the combustion of the few gases, that appear entitled to be considered as distinct species. They are deduced from the experiments of Mr. CRUIKSHANK and Mr. DALTON. 1oo measures, Kind of Gas. Sp. Grav. Take meas. Give carb. Are diminished (air = 1Q00.) of oxygen. acid. by firing. Oleflant 909 300 200 200 Carbonized hydrogen, fr-om stagnant water, 6oo 200 I00 200 carbo-nic oxide 967 45 90 55 Hydrogen gas 84 s5 o54 The inflammability of the compound gases, and their fitness for the purpose of affording lights are directly proportionate 2S6 Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatus for the to three quantity of oxygen required for their saturation. Thres oefiant gas, therefore, burnswith the greatest brilliancy; carbureted hydrogen gas, though inferior, affords a dense and compact flame; but the carbonic oxide and hydrogen gas are entirely unfit to be employed as the means of artificial illumination. In the execution of a series of experiments on the compound combustible gases, which are described in the iith volume of Mr. NICHOLSON'S Philosophical Journal, I had reason to be dissatisfied with the above method of effecting their decomposition, and to distrust the results which were obtained. The products of the combustion of the same gas varied considerably in different experiments; and, with respect to some, it was evident that the full proportion of their carbonaceous ingredient was not oxygenised, in consequence of the precipitation of charcoal in the act of detonation. The quantities, also, that can be submitted in this way to experiment, are extremely minute; and the inflammation of highly combustible gases is attended, as I have more than once experienced, with considerable danger from the bursting of the glass tubes. It was desirable, therefore, to employ a process not liable to these objections ; and after many alterations of the apparatus, contrived with this view, I at length fixed upon one, which I shall now proceed to describe. The principal parts of the apparatuLs, are two glass cylinders, or air receivers,* b b and o o, of which the larger one is intended to contain oxygen gas, and the smaller one, the inflamrmable gas submitted to experiment. They are connected I am indebted to Mr. H. CREIGHTON, of Soho, not only for a drawing of the apparatus but for much valuable assisance in the performance of the experiments, Analysis of the compound inflammable Gases. 287 by a bent glass tube s s, the diameter of which should not be less than 2-' of an inch, to the upper extremity of which is cemented an iron burner, t, the orifice of which is about -t of an inch, while to the lower end a socket is fixed, on which may be occasionally screwed the cock r. The receiver o o is contained in a larger glass jar'n n, and is closed at the top by a brass cap p, and stop cock q. The oxygen gas receiver is, also, closed by a brass cap e and cockf, the lower orifice of which is tapped internally, for the purpose of receiving a small screw at the end of the copper wire g. This wire is in two parts, each of which screws into a moveable socket, connecting the two; and, by this contrivance, the wire may be lengthened or shortened at pleasure. To prepare the apparatus for use, the receiver o o is partly filled with the combustible gas ; and is secured by wedges of cork v v, in the jar n n, the level of the water in the latter being regulated by opening the cocks x or z. The bent pipe s s, with its cock r, is screwed upon the top of the receiver, and partly immersed in the water of a pneumatic cistern, a a, so that the orifice of the burner may rise a few inches above the surface of the water. The receiver b b detached from the situation in which it is represented in the drawing, is then exhausted by an air pump; and, being filled with oxygen gas, is transferred (its mouth being closed during the act of removal with a piece of leather) to the cistern a, and quickly inverted over the burner t. By a little practice, this may be done with the admission of very little common air. A transferring vessel is then screwed uipon the cockf; and a portion of oxygen gas removed for budiometrical examination. To allow room for the expansion 288 Dr. HENRY'S 1)escriptnon of art Apprat~mus for the of the oxygen gas, the water is raised by a syphon to a proper height within the receiver b, as appears in the drawing. The apparatUs being thus disposed, the cockf is connected by the chain hz, wvith the prime conductor of an electrical machine; and a rapid succession of sparks is made to pass between the copper ball at the end of the wire g, and the orifice of the burner. The cocks q and r being now opened, the stream of gas is kindled; and in order to prevent the flame from playing upon the wire, the jar it I is moved a little nearer to the cistern a, which brings the point of the burner into the axis of the receiver. At the same timne, by opening the cock x, water flows into the jar n n, and finds its way into the receiver, through two small holes wv zv drilled near its mouth. The combustion continues, until either the whole of the inflammable gas is consumed, or till the cocks q and r are shut. The wedges v v are removed; the receiver o o unscrewed; and the bent tube removed from its place It is at this moment, that the cock r is useful, by preventing the escape of the gas from the receiver b through the tube s s. The upper part of the receiver is cooled by the application of a wet sponge. Without waiting, however, till the gas has attained the temperature of the atmosphere, a very small and sensible thermometer is introduced into it; and the lheight of the mercury is noted, as soon as it becomes stationary. The volume o f the residuary gas is then observed, and is reduced by calculation, to the bulk which it would occupy at 600 of FAHRENHEIT. Either the whole, or an aliquot part of it, is removed l)y a transferring vessel, screwed upon the cockf, Analysis of the compound i7fltarnmable Gases. 289 to a mercurial cistern, where the proportion of carbonic acid is determined by liquid potash. The proI)ortions of oxygen and nitrogen gases, ill the uLnabsorbed residue, are learned by agitation wvith sulphuret of lilme, observing the precauLtions which have been stated by DE MARRTI. The residuary oxygen being dedulcted from the quantity at the outset of the experiment, shewshow'much oxygen has been expended in the combustion of the inflainmable gas. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that the gases are carefully reduced, at each stage of the operation, to a mneazn templ)erature and pressure, (600 of the thermometer, and 30 ilnch'es of the barometer).* The process of combustion, as thus stated in general terms, appears sufficiently simple. It is often, however, rendered complicated by the imperfect combustion of the inflamimable gas, a part of which escapes through the orifice of the burner, either wholly unaltered, or only partially burnied. As this portion is not absorbed by sulphuret of linie, it gives a fallacious appearance of an actual addition of nitrogen to the oxygen gas remaining in the receiver b. I ani unacquainted with any method of entirely obviating this difficulty;but its amount may be diminished by an attention to certain precau, tions. With this view, the pressure upon the gas, contained in thie receiver o o, should, onl first opening the cocks q and r, be no more than is sufficient for its gentle expulsion through the tube s s. When, however, the stream is once kindled, the larger the flame, and the more active the combustion, within certain limits, the more completely is the gas consumed. It is necessary, also, to stop the combustion, before it is rendered* r The rules observed in these calculations, are stated in my Epitome of Che? fiIlst' y, 5th edition, p. 441.AIDCCCVTIII. P p 290 Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatusfrr the langulid by the admixture of carbonic acid with the gas in the re ceiver b, and by the diminished purity of the oxygen gas. If tflhis be not attended to, a large proportion of the inflam-. mable gas, towards the close of the process, makes its escape unaltered into the receiver b. In general I have foulnd, that setting out with oxygen gas of equal purity, the more com-bustible the inflammable gas submitted to experiment, the more complete is its decomposition by slow combustion. The apparatus, therefore, is better adapted to the analysis of olefiant gas, of carbureted hydrogen gas, or of mixtures of these two, than of carbonic oxide, or any gas of which that oxide forms a large proportion. 'the inflammable gas, which has found its way into the receiver b, is always present in too minute a quantity to compose, with the residuary oxygen, after the removal of the carbonic acid, a mixture capable of being inflamed by the electric spark. To ascertain its precise quantity, it is necessary to have recourse to another operation. After trying, eudiometrically, the quality of an aliquot part of the gas in the receiver b, let a similar aliquot part be deprived of its carbonic acid, and then mixed with a portion of pure hydrogen gas, not exceeding one third or one fourth the estimated bulk of the oxygen which it contains. Detonate the mixture, and observe the amount of the diminution after the explosion; the products of the combustion; and the quantity of oxygen gas consumed. After subtracting, from the total expenditure of oxygen, half the bulk of the added hydrogen gas, the remaining number shexvs how much oxygen has been absorbed by the combus_ tible gas contained in the residue. By the rule of proportion, it nmay be determined, howv much carbonic acid would have Analysis of the compound inflammable Gases. been produced, by the oxygenation of the whole of the cornbustible gas, and what quantity of oxygen it would have saturated. The most obvious objection to this method of analyzing the compound gases is, that the real proportion of the products, resulting from their combustion, may perhaps be disguised, in consequence of the absorption of a part of the carbonic acid by the water, over which the experiment is made. By frequent trials, however, I find that this is a source of error too trivial to be deserving of consideration; and that the proportion of carbonic acid, thus generated, exceeds what is come posed by the rapid combustion of the same gas over mercury. When the operator has acquired sufficient dexterity, the interval of time, between the completion of the combustion and the admeasurement of the residue, is too small to allow an absorption to any notable amount. It must be observed, also, that the carbonic acid constitutes only a small part of the residue ; and iA, for that reason, very little acted on by water, conformable to a principle which I have explained in the Philosophical Transactions for 1803, p. 274. I believe, therefore, that with an attention to those observances, which are required in all delicate experiments on gases, and to the changing cirs cumstances of temperature and pressure, this apparatus is fully adequate to the purpose for which it is intended. It will be easy, however, for those who have the command of a sufficient quantity of mercury, to adapt the apparatus to that fluid. As an exemplification of the method of using it, in the simplest possible case, I shall state the results of the combustion of hydrogen gas, At the outset of the experiment, there was contained in the P p 2 292 Dr. HENRY'S Descrzption of an Apparatus for the receiver o o, a quantity of hydrogen gas, equal, when reduced to a. mean temperature and pressure, to i5.8 cubic inches Of these, there remained unconsumned 2.5 FT1ydrogen gas burned 13.3 In the receiver b were 49 cubic inches of oxygen gas, consisting of 33.5 oxygen, 15.5 nitrogen At the close of the experiment,) there remained, in b, 43. c. 272 16.25 composed of Cubic inches of oxygen gas consumed But estimating from the first diminution (viz. 49-43:5) only 5.5 cubic inches of oxygen would appear to have been absorbed; and the nitrogen gas, by eudiometrical experinents, would seem to have been increased 0.75 of an inch. As the hydrogen gas, however, had been prepared from zinc and sulphuric acid with extreme caution, and did not contain an appreciable quantity of common air, no such addition of nitrogen could have taken place. The apparent increase, then, may be fairly imputed to the escape of 0.75 of an inch of hydrogen gas, which is to be deducted from the 13.3 cubic inches at the outset of the experiment; and hence the real quantity consumed will be 13.3 0.75 12.55. The true consumption, also, of oxygen gas was 50 Jr 0.75 =6.25, or pretty exactly, as it ought to be, half the bulk of the hydrogen gas, which was actually burned. An example of the analysis of a highly combustible species of elastic fluid is furnished by the following experiments on the olfiant gas, obtaincd from alcohol and sulphuric acid. Analysis of the compound inflammable Gases. 293 Of this gas 100 cubic inches, at a mean of the barometer and thermometer, were equal to 30 troy grains ; hence its specific gravity was 967. In the receiver o o, were contained of this gas 6.3 cub. in. Residue . 2 Gas consumed 43 In the receiver b, were 43.4 inches of oxygen gas. After the combustion, there remained 38.2 cubic inches of mixed gases, of which 8.6 were carbonic acid. None of the inflamable gas, which passed through the bent tube, had escaped being burned, for the quantity of gas in b, not absorbable by sulphuret of lime, so far from having been increased, was found to have sustained a trifling diminution. The oxygen gas, which was consumed, amounted to 13.8 cubic inches. Reducing these results to centesimal proportion, ioo cubic inches of this gas would give 200 of carbonic acid, and absorb 325 of oxygen gas. This experiment agrees with Mr. DALTON'S, as to the proportion of carbonic acid from the combustion of olefiant gas, but assigns a larger consumption of oxygen. It may be observed, however, that the specific gravity of the gas, which I employed, exceeded a little the statement of the Dutch chemists, who found its specific gravity to be 9og, common air being ioeo. Having satisfied myself, by repeated experiments, of the accuracy of the results which may be thus obtained, I proceedeAd to the combustion of the gases from a variety of vegetable substances, and especially from those which it seemed probable might become economical sources of light. In the present memoir, I shall describe those only, which were mlade 294 Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatus for the on coal and a few similar substances, reserving the rest for a future communication. Gas from Cannel Coal. This was received in two separate portions. Of the first product, ioo cubic inches, corrected to a mean temperature and pressure, weighed 24.28 grains. Hence its specific gravity was to that of atmospheric air as 783 to 0oo0. The second product was much lighter, ioo inches weighing only 10.4 grains, and having, therefore, the specific gravity of 335. The results are comprehended in the following table. The carbonic acid, stated to have been generated by the second combustion, was formed by adding to an aliquot part of the residue, after the removal of the carbonic acid, a proportion of hydrogen gas ; detonating the -mixture by the electric spark; and proceeding as already directed. The two first lines contain the minutes of actual experiments; the third and fourth these results reduced to centesimal proportion. Carb. acid Oxygen conSp. Grav. Cub. inches Oxyg. gas. Carb. acid. formed by sumed by Total oxygen Total, carb. I. . burned. consumed. generated. second co second corn consumed. acid formed. bustion. bustion. 33 ,0 __ _ _.__ ___ _._ __________ 783 7.3 16.5 8.3 0.9 17-4 10.2 335 9.8 9.4 4.8 0 0 9.4 4.8 783 loo 222 11I3 7 2.6 12 234 1 39X7 3 33 _I_ 96 49 0 0 96 49 The early product of the gas from cannel coal, before being washed with lime water or caustic potash, is a mixture of several different gases, viz. carbonic acid, sulphureted hydrogen, olefiant, and a fourth, which is either a gas sui generis, or a mixture of carbureted hydrogen, and carbonic oxide. To ascertain the proportion of these gases in any Analysis of the compound inflammable Gases. 295 mixtuire, is a problem of some difficulty. Sulphureted hydrogen and olefiant gases experience, it is well known, an immediate condensation, when mingled with oxy-muriatic acid gas, and in this way they may be separated from carbonic acid. Again, sulihureted hydrogen and carbonic acid are absorbed bv liquid potash, which has no action on olefiant gas. If, therefore, two equal portions of the gas from coal be mixed with oxy-muriatic gas, the one in its recent state, the other after being washed with potash, the condensation of the former will be found to exceed that of the washed portion. By the combined use of these agents, we may attain an approximation, at least, to the proportions in which carbonic acid, olefiant, and sulphureted hydrogen gas are mingled with the aeriform product of coal. The rule may be stated as follows; to a measured quantity of oxy-muriatic acid gas, contained in a graduated tube, add twice its bulk of the recent coal gas, and at the expiration of one or two minutes observe: the dimninution which has taken place. Wash an equal quantity with caustic potash ; note the loss ; and submit the residue to the action of oxy-muriatic acid as before. The second diminution, thus effected by oxymuriatic gas, divided by 2.2, gives the proportion of olefiant gas. Deduct this absorption from the first, and, dividing the remainder by i.8, we obtain the quan-. tity of sulphureted hydrogen. Lastly, to know the quantity of carbonic acid gas, substract, from the diminution effected by potash, the amount of the sulphureted hydrogen gas. An example, taken from actual experiment, will best explain the application of this rule. One hundred measures of the first product of gas from cannel coal lost, by agitation with liquid potash, 9.7 measures, *96 Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatus for the Thle remainder, being mingled with one fourth its bulk of oxy-miuriatic acid gas, the mixture lost 10.4 measures. This diminution, 10.4, divided by 2.2, gives 4.9 for the prolbortion of olefiant gas. But zoo measures of the unwashed gas sustained, by admixture with oxy-muriatic acid, a diminution of 2o measures. Now, deducting, from this diminution, that occasioned by the condensation of olefiant gas, (viz. 20_ 10.4,) there remain 9.6, which, divided by i.8, gives .3 for the proportion of sulphureted hydrogen gas. And the diminution by potash (= 9.7 ) 5.3 gives 4.4 for the proportion of carbonic acid gas. Hence 1oo measures of the first product of gas from cannel coal contain, i. Of inflamnmable gas, not affected by the 1 8 foregoing agents Q. Of sulphureted hydrogen gas, 3. Of olefiant gas _ 4.9 4. Of carbonic acid gas _ 4.4 100 loo The proportion of common air, in the foregoing specimen ,of gas, and in all cases when care was taken to exclude it, was too small to deserve being taken into the account, not appear, ing, by the test of nitrous gas, to exceed X per cent. The following table exhibits the composition of gas from various kinds of coal. In the last column, under the term inflammable gas, is comprehended that portion, which is neither suddenly condensed by oxy-muriatic acid gas, nor absorbed by potash. A name more descriptive cannot be applied to it, because it varies essentially in different cases, and the propQr.. tion of its components is still matter of doubt. Anatysis of the .compound.. inflammable Gases 297 TABLE I. One hundred measures consisted of Kind of Coal.No o th _ _ _ _ _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _product. Sulph. iHydr. Carb. acid. Olefiant. Inflarn. 5.3 44 4.9 85.4 Wigan cannel. { I 5I8 0. 8.2 Wednesbury, f I 4.9 3 4 0 91.7 Staffordshire. 2 0. Z. 8 0 97.2 Newcastle on f 2.9 2.8 27 9I.6 Tyn'e. Z |.2 1.7 0 96.6 Newcastle, Staf12 3 27 0 96.6 fordshire. 3 1 33. 0 96.6 Middleton, near 3 3. 0 96. Leceds. 3 0 2 98. [ I I33 3I2 25 91 2 2 1.1 0 96.9 Black Mine, near 3 2 I. 0 97 Manchester. 4 0.5 ? 0 98.3 0 1.2 0 98.8 6 0 0 O 100 I I 1.7 0 92 0 1.7 0 98.3 Merlthyr, Glamor. ~ 3 0 i.6 0 98.4 ganshire. j 4 0 1.5 0 9. 5 0 I. 0 99 L 6 0 0 0 100 Native coal tar. 13 6 is 66 Caoutchouc. 0 4.9 17 78. After separating the sulphureted hydrogen and carbonic acid gases by agitation with liquid potash, the residue, consisting of the inflammable gas mixed with the proportion of olefiant gas produced along with it, was submitted to coinbustion. The following table shews the average results of a number of these experiments. WIDCCCVIIL. O q 198 Dr. HENRY'S 'Descrijption of an A4pparatus for the TABLE II. Weight of loo cubic inches Kind of Coal. No. of the 100 cubic inches Spec. Grav. product. (Ther. 600. Bar. 30.) (Air loo.) consume give carbonic oxyg. gas. acid. Wigan cannel, I | 24.28 Grs. 783 2346 139.7 2 10,4 3 35 96 49 I 20 9 674 190o 97.5 Wednesbury coal, 2. 9 8 I6 I5 46 2 19. 316 46zIg 0 Newcastle oil Tyne, I 9.3 622 190 100 2 9.8 316 86 4 N ewcastle Stafford. t | |1 19.6 632 195 98 Necshire, {tfod 2 17.7 570 i65 8o shire, ~ L 3 12.1 390 100 6o F I 20.7 670 10 10oo Leeds, 2 15-1 487 lost by accident. r t3 1 19. 8 316 85 42 I 19.4 ~~~~~627 i86 9 2 1 5 481 137 6 Black-Mine, Lanca. 3 11.3 364 100 50 shire, 4 1 0 322 90 47 5 9.5 307 85 45 6 8 o 40 : r I 12 387 117 62 Merthyr, ~ ~ ~ ~719.5S 307 go 47 4 5.9 19 o 3 1 L 5.8 187 57 26 6 5.5 1 77/ 50 20 Coal tar, 24t 780 233 1S0 Caoutchouc. _ 204 121 An attentive examination of the results, contained in both the tables, suggests the following general renmarks. i. The olefiant gas is a very sparing product of the distillation of pit-coal. It is found only in the first portions, and even of these it does not compose more than S per cent. Its quantity, however, is very much influenced by the temper--. ature employed. This remark, indeed, may be extended to all the aeriform products of coal ; insomuch that from equal weights of the same coal it is difficcult to obtain by diffbrent operations conducted on a small scale, products which are the AnalysA' of the compoundin7flammable Gases,: n9 same either in quantity or quality. The gas from Coalbrookedale tar, and that from Caoutchouc, have a larger proportioa of olefiant gas, which in them amounts to about one-sixth their bulk. . Sulphureted hydrogen gas is, also, most abunldantly produced at tthe early stages of the distillation. Its proportion then varies from c to 5 per cent; and towards the close of ;the process it disappears entirely. It increases the illuminating, power of the coal gas; but is by no means a desirable product; since it yields -b combustion, a gas (the sulphurous acid) which is extremely offensive and irritating to the lungs. By the distillation of coal, more sulphureted hydrogen is pro-. produced, than is discovered among -the aeriform products ; for a part, uniting with the ammonia which is generated at the samne: mI o0ment, forms sulphuret of ammonia, a compound which I have found among the condensed products. 8. Carbonic acid gas, like the two preceding ones, appears onlly at an early stage of the process, and in small proportion,-, never amounting to 5 per cent. A portion of this gas, also, unites with ammonia, and hence carbonate of ammionia is found in the condensed fluid. 4. The gas from coal undergoes a gradual diminution of specific gravity and combustibility, from the commencement to the close of the process. -Trhis is best she-wn by inspecting the results of the experiments on the Black-Mine and ferthyr coal gas in Table II. because they were reserved in a greater nul1mber of separate portions than usual. The progression would, perhaps, have been more regular, in these aswell as In the other instances, if much of the gas had not been allowed toescape, in consequence of the immense quantity Qq 2 A;oo Dr. HENRY'S Description of an Apparatus for the which wvas produced. The specific gravity of the coal gas appears to a-ffftbrd a measure of its fitness for illumination, sufficiently accurate for practical uses ; but does not bear an exact correspondence to the chemical properties of the gas, as ascertained by combustion. It may be remarked, also by comparing the two last columns of the second table, that the carbonIic acid produced does not always bear the same proportion to the oxygen expended. Thus the first product of gas from cannel coal combines with 234 measures of oxygen gas; and gives 1a9.7 of carbonic acid. But the gas from coal tar, with only an equal consumption of oxygen, yields Ado measures of carbonic acid. 5. The aeriform product of coal does not precisely answer to the characters of any one of the combustible gases, with which we are acquainted. The first product, however, of the distillation of common pit coal, after being washed with potash, approaches very nearly in its properties to carbureted hydrogen gas. The gases, which surpass this in specific gravity, are mixtures of carburetted hydrogen with olefiant gas, and perhaps a small proportion of carbonic oxide. The lighter gases, in addition to carbureted hydrogen, probably contain a. variable proportion of hydrogen gas and a small quantity of carbonic oxide. The extreme levity of some of the products, especially of the gas from Merthyr coal, cannot be explained on any other supposition. 6. The products of the combustion of a cubic foot of coalgas, of medium quality, viz, of the specific gravity 622, (such as the first products from Newcastle on Tynze coal) may be stated as follovs: Analysis of the compound inflammable Gases. 30C1 Grains, A cubic foot, at a mean of the barometer and ther. mometer,333.5 By combustion, it yields 81 7.3 grains of carbonic acid, the carbon in which may be estimated * at 233.7 Grains of hydrogen in a cubic foot of coal gas 99.8 But 99.8 grains of hydrogen are equivalent to the saturation of 554.9 grains of oxygen, with which they form 654.7 grains of water. Hence the oxygen consumed ought from calculation to be 817.3-2337 =573.6 + 554.9 1128 And the quantity actually consumed appears by experiment to be 11-0.3 Error 17.7 The difference, in this example, between experiment and calculation is not greater, than, in such delicate processes, may always be expected. A part of the deficiency in the oxygen actually consumed may be ascribed, also, to a small portion of the inflammable gas being already in the state of carbonic oxide. Without repeating the particulars of a similar calculation made on gas of inferior quality, I shall annex a comparative statement of the specific gravities and composition of the good and inferior gases. A Cubic Foot Oxygen Gas Gives Source of the Gas. Weight of a consists of consumed by A Cubic Foot. Carbon. Hydr. a Cubic Foot. Carb. Acid Watc-r Newcastle coal 333.5gr. 2'3 . 9 9. 8 1110 3 1 817.3 G" l ,Ditto, last product 1t9 3 J 11.557.8, 56o. 4?? ? * Assuming the carbon to be 28.6 grainis in ioo grains of carbonic acid, as is satisfactorily proved by the experiments of Mes~srs. AL L EN and PrE P s 002 yDr. HENRY'S Description offan AparatusfortI The inferior gas, also, probably contains carbonic oxide ; for the quantity of oxygen gas, actually consumed, will be found, on calculation, less than it ought to be, if the carbon were not already combined with a portion of oxygen. The quantity of water, which was generated by combustion, was not determined experimentally, but is merely estimated. It must be acknowledged that the decomposition of the inflammable gases cannot lead to unquestionable results, until the proportion of water, produced by their combustion, be also accurately ascertained. With the view of effecting this, I have already spent much time, and employed many contrivances, none of which have satisfactorily answered the purpose for which they were intended. 7. There appears to be a considerable difference in the specific gravity and combustibility of gas from various specimens of coal, even when taken at similar periods of the distillation. The coal from Merthyr in South Wales, which burns without flamne or smoke, yields a gas which contains, in an equal volume, scarcely half as much combustible matter as the gas from Wigan cannel. This will probably be found to be the case with respect to all coal of similar quality, among which may be reckoned the Kilkenny coal. ; The most important difference among the varieties of this mineral, connected with their application as sources of light, consists in the quan. tity of sulphureted hydrogen gas, which is mixed with their aeriform products ; and it unfortunately happens that the coal, otherwise best adapted to this purpose, yields generally the largest proportion of this offensive gas. The only effectual method of purifying the coal gas from sulphureted hydrogen, on the large scale of manufacture, will probably be found to Adcv. rnra. MDCCCVNJiae1I-0p JOt. ifb1 7 6 * a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1 _____ Analysis of the compound infammable Gases. 8o3 consist in agitation with quicklime and water, composing a mixture of the consistence of cream. Simple washing with water by no means effects the complete separation. In the experiments which were made on the products of the distillation of coal, I purposely neglected the amount and analysis of the condensible fluids, because they cannot be advantageously ascertained by the same operation with the elastic ones. They may also be much better determined on the large scale of manufacture, than by limited experiments. For the same reason I was not solicitous to measure even the aeriform fluids; and on this subject, I believe, more accurate inforrnation has been communicated by Mr. MURDOCH, than it was in my power to acquire. Manchester, May i9, isos. 