An Account of Books. I. PRAELUDIA BOTANICA Roberti Morision Scoti Aberdonensis. Londini, impensis Jac. Allectry, 1669. in80. This Prelude of this Excellent Botanist hath two parts; The first gives us an Alphabetical Catalogue of all the Plants in the Royal (935) Royal Garden of Blois in France, as the same was enrich'd by the Munificence and Encouragement of the Most Illustrius Prince Gaston, late Duke of Orleans, with 360 Plants, in the space of five years, by the singular care and Skil of our Author; who in this Catalogue hath not only given a succint and pithy description of the Plants here enumerated, but also by certain marks distinguish't the Perennial ones from the Annual; adding some general Observations, collected from the Garden above mentioned, very necessary and useful to all that are studious in Botanicks. The second, contains some Animadversions not inconsiderable, both on the Pinax of Caspar Bauhinus, shewing his mistakes as well in the Digesting as Naming of Plants; and on the 3. Tomes of the Universal History of Plants of Johannes Bauhinus. To which is annexed a Dialogue between a Fellow of the R. Society and the Author, containing an Answer to several Queries proposed, where is intimated the best General Method taken from Nature it self, of digesting all Plants, and reducing them to certain Classes or Heads according to the difference of their Seeds, Podds and Flowers; by the advantage whereof the Study and Remembring of Plants may be much facilitated, and the Contemplation thereof among all sorts of Men exceedingly promoted: For the publishing of which kind of Method our Author professeth himselfe to be already in great forwardness, entertaining good hopes, he shall by the Assistance and Encouragement of the Generous, be enabled to give good satisfaction to the Curious therein. II. C L. S A L M A S I I Praefatio in Librum De H O M ON Y M I S H Y L E S I A T R I C AE: Ejusdem de P L IN I O J U D I C I U M. Divione, A. 1668. in quarto This Book is an Introduction to a large Volume, compos'd by the famous Salmasius, and now in the hands of those two Honourable persons, that have taken care of the Publishing of this Preface; both Counsellors of the Parliament of Burgundy, Messieurs Lantin and De la Mare; which Volume gives an Account of the many and great mistakes committed hitherto in the History of Plants, upon the score of Naming them: In the doing of which it hath come to pass, that severall names being often given to one and the same Plant, and vice versa, one and the same name to different Plants, there hath ensued a great and dangerous confusion in that large part of the Materia Medica, highly requiring to be rectified. Now to that Work this Preface prepares the way, by shewing to the studious in Bota(936) Botanicks and Medicine, the Argument, Order, and Usefulness of the same, interspersing withall the Causes and Origin of those many Errors, which both Antients and Moderns have fallen into upon this Subject; as also the negligence of those Antients; the Progress of Physick among the Romans; and the Age of the cheif Writers on this Argument: Adding also the Authors opinion concerning Pliny, what is to be approvd, what to be condemned in him, and how far we are to proceed in the admiration of that Writer. But the Reader will doubtless receive the best satisfaction concerning this Book, from M. Lantin himfelfe, as he was pleas'd to give it in a late Letter of his to the Publisher, accompanying the Present, he made of several Copies of it to the R. Society, and to divers particular Members thereof, delighting in Botanical Studies; to this effect. S I R, I send you some Exemplars of the Introduction to'a great Work, which M. Dela Mare and I have caus'd to be printed, to excite the Lovers of Learning to facilitate the impression of the Whole Book. I promise my selfe, that this Present will not be unacceptable to you, as well in respect of the Author, who, besides his great Learning generally known, had the Honour to be lov'd by his Majesty of G. Brittain, as for the worth of the Treatise it selse; of which you may judge by this Preface. Although it be a work altogether Critical, and which, Correcting only Errors about the Names of Simples, may seem to contribute but little to the knowledge of Nature, for the Advancement of which your Illustrious Society employs all its Studies and Labors with so much reputation; yet I may say, that even this Book may serve for the accomplishment of that great Design, forasmuch as in discovering the Errors and Negligence of the Antients, and of the Mederns that have follow'd them in the History of Plants, it shews the necessity there is to labour after a new Natural History, that may be free from those defects, if we intend to lay solid foundations for knowledge, and particularly for the Art of Medicine. In the mean time, those that practise it, being often constrain'd to use Simples, the virtue of which is not known to them but by the Experience of the Antients, may by Ayd of this Book avoid very dangerous mistakes. But what Judgment soever you shall make both of the Book and its Preface, I shall be satisfi'd, if you and your Illustrious Friends, (to whom I intreat you to presext some of the Copies accompanying this,) shall receive them as a mark of my esteem of the R. Society, the design of which I admire as the Noblest, that ever was undertaken by men. I uncessantly praise their Industry, Prudence and Sincerity, and in finitely value the parts and knowledge of those, that compose it. And this occasion shal also serve Me to & c. L O N D O N, Printed by T. N. for John Martyn Printer to the Royal Society, and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar, 1669. 