XVI. An Account of an extraordinary Case of the Bones of a Faetus coming away by the Anus; communicated by John Still Winthrop, Esq;. T H E R E are several Instances of the Bones of Faetus's, which have died in their Mothers Bellies, making their Way out by preternatural Manners; some by the Navel, some by the Groin, and some by the Anus. Of this last sort I am now going to give another Instance, which happened in New London in New England, in the Year 1737. A Negro Wench was thought to have conceived with Child; and about three Months after, she had some Appearances of a Miscarriage, but no Faetus was observed to come away. This therefore made the good Women now alter their Opinion; thinking that she was not with Child, but only had not been regular from having taken Cold: Whereupon Remedies, proper in such a Case, were given her; but she found no Relief from exceeding great Pains she complained of in the Bottom of her Belly, and in the Small of her Back, more particularly when she went to Stool. Her Flesh wasting extremely, a skilful Woman was sent for, who found Milk in her Breasts, and other certain Tokens of her being with Child. She continued wasting in a miserable Condition, growing less in her Belly, and her Breasts falling, Read March 14. 1744-5. [305] falling, and was at last given over: But at length, at the End of about eight Months, she brought away much Blood by Stool, on which her Pain in those Parts abated; and then she voided with her Stools these Bones with Flesh and rotten Skin about them. After this she soon grew well, and recovered intirely. All the Parts of the Faetus were found in her Stools, except the Head; which is supposed to have come away by the Vagina, when she had the Symptoms of Miscarrying above mentioned; for it was now recollected, that she then said, Something came away with her Water as big as a large Nut, but it was not then attended to. As the Case was very remarkable, so I hope it will prove acceptable; tho' not drawn up with that Accuracy with which a Physician might have done it. 