An Extract of another Letter written by the same Gentleman, Mr. Wray, to the Publisher, of Febr. 8th. 16 70/71. Containing some Experiments about the Bleeding of the Sycamore, and other Trees; as also, a considerable Note of Pliny about the Mulberry. Tree. COncerning the Bleeding of the Sycamore, let me acquaint you with the following Experiment. The first instant it froze, the Wind at North; the Frost and Wind continued (some little Snow and rain falling) the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, until the 7th in the morning, when the Wind came about to the (2070) the South-East, and the weather broke up a pace. The Sycamores bled not all this while, but the 7th about Noon all Trees of that kind bled very freely, both at the Twigs and Body, and I struck above a dozen. At this same Critical season I was willing to repeat the Experiment upon other Trees; and to this end I forthwith struck the Hawthorn, Hazel, Wild Rose, Goose berry-bush, Apple-tree, Cherry-tree, Blather nut, Apricock, Cherry-Lawrel, Vine, Walnut; yet none bled but the last-named, and that faintly in comparison of the Sycamore. This is consonant to our former Experiments: And if it did happen (as I said in my former Letter,) that these Sycamores bled not all this Winter afore at the wounds made the first of November, I do now think, that if new wounds had been still made at every break of Frost, some signes, at least of our York-shire bleeding, might have been discover'd before now. But I affirm no more, than I have seen and tried. In all the Monuments of the Antients, collected by the great industry of Pliny, I find but few instances of this nature. Amongst those few, there is one that is registred with two or three remarkable circumstances to our purpose. He tells us, that the Physitians of old, when they had a mind to draw the Juyce of the Mulberry-tree, were wont to strike it skin-deep only, and that about two hours after Sun-rise. This Experiment is twice mentioned by him, and in both places as a strange phaenomenon. We might make our Comment upon the places, but for this time are content only to transcribe the Texts. Lib. 16. c. 38. Mirum; hic (cortex) in Moro, Medicis succum quaerentibus, fere hora diei secunda, lapide incussus manat, altius fractus siccus videtur. Lib. 23. c. 7. Mora in AEgypto & Cypro sui generis, ut diximus, largo succo abundant, summo cortice desquamato, altiore plaga siccantur; mirabili natura. 