An Account of the Species of Plant, from which the Agaric, used as a Styptic, is prepared. By Mr. William Watson, F. R. S. London, Feb. 1. 1755. I Lately acquainted the Royal Society, that I had some doubts, arising from the pieces I had seen, whether the agaric sent from France, and applied as a styptic after amputations, was the fungus in caudicibus nascens, pedis equini figura, of Caspar Bauhin; or the fungus coriaceus quercinus baematodes of Breynius, of which I gave a short history. In order therefore to be confirmed in this matter, I wrote to our worthy brother M. Clairaut, of Paris, to lay some queries, I drew up, before M. Bernard de Jussieu, and M. Morand, both members Read Feb. 6, 1755. [29] members of this Society, and excellent judges of this subject. M. Clairaut, since our last meeting, has been so kind as to transmit to me their answer; by which it does appear, that this is prepared from a plant, which is called by the botanists `` Agaricus pedis equini figura. Inst. Rei. Herbar. `` Fungus in caudicibus nascens, pedis equini figura. C. B. Pin. `` Fungus durus arborum, sive igniarius. Park. Theat. `` Fungi arborei ad ellychnia. I. B. `` Fungi igniarii Cisalpini et Tragi. `` Boletus acaulis pulvinatus laevis, poris tenuissimis. Linn. Flor. Suec. It is the agaric employed for the amadoue; and Mr. Brossart, who first brought this preparation into practice, conceives, that that, which grows upon old oaks, which have been lopped, is the most valuable; that it should be gathered in August or September, and be kept in a dry room. The way of preparing it is to take off with a knife the white and hard part, till you find a substance so soft, as to yield under the finger, like shammy leather. This is to be divided into pieces of different sizes and thickness: beat these with a hammer, to give them a still greater degree of softness, so that they may be easily torn with the finger. Mr. Morand thinks, that the agaric, which when growing is of a greyish colour on the outside, is better than that which is white. W. Watson. VIII. 