(209) I. On the Method of determining the Places of the Planets by observing their near Appulses to the Fixed Stars. By Edmund Halley, LL. D. Astron. Reg. & Reg. Soc. Soc. OF all the Caelestial Observations that have hitherto been made, none are so capable of perfect Exactness, as the near Appulses of the Moon and Planets to the Fixed Stars, such as lately we had of Jupiter to two small Stars in Gemini, and of Mars to the Forehead of the Scorpion; for though the Places of the Stars have not as yet attained an ultimate Precision, yet these Sorts of Observations are ever good, and the Places of the Planets are thereby ascertain'd, in Proportion to the Correctness of the Catalogues that may hereafter be made: But the ordinary Number of the Stars, with which the Planets may be thus compared, being small, the Opportunities of observing are consequently rare: Whence appears the great Use of a full Catalogue of Telescopical Stars, at least within the Limits of the Zodiack; viz. that thereby these Opportunities may be more frequent: And wherever such Observations have formerly been made to these small Stars, we may be enabled to find them out, and by determining their Places, to be certain of the Places of the Planets also: Of which I have given a notable Instance in finding the Place of the great Comet of 1680, in its first Appearance, even before it had a Tail visible to the naked G g Eye, (210) Eye, of which an Account is given in Numb. 342. of the Transactions. And since the Royal Observatory at Greenwich has been put under my Care, I have endeavoured to put myself into a Condition to supply the many and great Vacancies to be met with in the present Zodiack; and particularly I have sought out and settled the Places of two Telescopick Stars, to one of which, Jupiter was observed to apply by Galileo at the Beginning of March 1610, New Stile, and which is the very first Observation of that kind that was made with the Telescope. (a) On the 28th of February, one Hour after Sun-set, a small fix'd Star was in Conjunction with the fourth Satellite, (as it since appears to have been) being then Eastwards of the Planet. The next Day, Mart. 1~. at the same Hour, the Center of ~ was in the Angle of an equilateral Triangle with the fourth Satellite and the Star: And again, March 2~. Jupiter being retrograde, had past the Conjunction of the Star, and a Line from the Star, perpendicular to that of the Satellites, fell on the first Satellite then two Minutes to the West of the Planet, and in Latitude the Star was more Southerly than the Satellite eight Minutes. This Star, by the Direction of the Place of Jupiter at that Time, I found out, and, by comparing it with others in the Catalogue, having nearly the same Declination, I settled its Place in II 13~ 24~ ~ to the Time of the British Catalogue with 0~ 25~ South Latitude. Another remarkable Observation of Saturn is recorded in Riccioli (b), said to have been made at Modena by the Marquis Malvazzo, on July 3~ N. S. 1662, when the Eastern Ansa of Saturn touched a fix'd Star. By the then Place of Saturn, I look'd out for this Star, to which (a) Nunclus Syder, pag. 27. Edit. prin, 1610. (b) Astron. Reform. pag. 286. I (211) which Saturn is at this Time very near, and after the same Method I settled its Place, ineunte Anno 1690, (the Epoch of the British Catalogue) in 29~~ 34~ of Scorpio with 2~ 0~ ~, North Latitude. By this it will appear, how defective the observed Place of Saturn is stated in Riccioli, there being above seven Minutes erred in the Latitude thereof. II. 