lC 4383: SS. On tbe Ciovil Sear of tlpe Hindoos and its Dirisions; with an Account of tbree Hindoo Alnzanacs belonging to CIlarles VVilkinss Esq By;Hellry Cavendish, Esq. Read June Xs ye. ] HOUGH sve have received much information concerning the astronomy of the Hindooss we know but little of their civil year, and its divisions; and what accourlts of it we have re ceived vary much froln each others <?wing partly as will be seerla to different nlethodsMbeiag used in different parts of India. As it occurred to me that the best way by which a persotl in Europe could clear up the difficulties in this subject, would be to examine the patras or almanacs, published by the Hindoos themselves, I applied to Mr. WILKINS-, well knovwrn for hls skill ill the Sanskreet langtlage, who was so good as to lend me three suchs and assist me in finding out their meaning One of them was procured by Mr. WI-LKINS tt Benares? and . tss comptated for that place. The second came from fTanna, in the island of Salsette, near Bombay; but it appears to be the copy of a Bexlares patra, aS it is disposed in the same for as the first, -and is adapted to tlle same latitude and longitude. The third is compuoted for Nadeea, a town of Be-ngal, about so miles Ne of Calcutta, almost as noted for learned men as iBenares, and much frequented by students from the coa$t of g D u 11e. CAG7EP{DISH an tbe Civil Sear884Coromandel. The language of all three of them is a corrupl: Sanskreet; but the la5t iS wsritten in ffie common hngal c zaracter. It appears fFom these almanacs that the civil year is regulated very difirelatly in diffiererlt parts of India; but before I speak ofthis year, it will be prowr to mention a fbw words of the astrorlomical, which in all parts serves to regulate the civll years The astronomical year lxgins at the instant when the sun t comes to the firt point of the Hindoo zodiac. In the present year 1792, it began, according to the principles delivered in the Surya Siddbanta,* on April 9> at 22h 14 after tnidnlght of theIr first meridian, which is about 4rt of time west of Calcutta; but accordirlg to Mr GENTIL'S accoullt of the Indian astrollomy, it began sh 241t earlier. As this year, however, is longer than ours, its commencement falls corltinually later ill respect of the Julian year w So' 26tt in bur years This year is divided into sg months each of whi corresponds to the time of the suns stay itl some sign, so that they are of diffirent lengths, and seldorn begin at the beginning of a day The civil days in all parts of India, begins at sun-rise, and is divided into 604 partsy called dandas, wvhich are again divided irlto 60 palas. . . . The only parts of the Benares patras which are of any materid uw fbr my purpose} are the names of the tnonths which are set down at the top of each page, and the three first columnss the first of whiCh contains the day of the lnonth, according to ffie G;v;1 account the next the day of the week, . * See an acsouxlt of this in the 2d sole of ffie Asiatic Researchese of tZ3e HizdoosX vxd its ZDi7visions.88gand the @zird thgW tinze at wFlc.h t1e 1Xt-zar teetbee etlds; but as S8lly lD.ay i7.3.3.?sE tO be it-Sbrm<d of the nature of atl Hindoo a1ranac} I S'3' tttil1 gtYe an account of the remaining parts at the erl<t Of tiliS paper In those parts of India in W}liCh this almanac is used) the civil yeaP is iunsfolar? consistino of 12 lutlar tnonths) with an intercaIary t-nonth inser-ted betvveen thetn occasionally. It begiihS & the ay aRer the @W LlOon nest bekre the beginning of &ie so-11ar year^@ The lUlsaur montla is divided into thirty parts) called teethees; tlaese are not stricitly of the salne length but are equal to the time in wsllicTl tTle lllOON'S true lnotion froln the sun is X°* From the new moorl till the moon arrives at 12° distance frotn the sun3 is called the first teethee. From thence-till it comes ^ My reasons for sayiilg that the ciaril year begins at the (lay after the new moon next be>ire the beginIling of the solar year, are as bllow: Ist. These almanacs beg1n at this time, and,moreover, the year of Vcekramadeetya and Salavahana, which is set down at the top of each page, is the same in the first page as irl all thefollowing, which w(3uld be impropers unless the year began at this time. zdly. In the calclllatlon ofthe eclipse ofthe sun, in PERE PATOIJILLETSS Memoir, given irl BAILLY 5 Xstronomie Indienne, the computation is made for the rlew mooll precesling the beginlling of the solar year, arld yet the year of Salavahana, arld of the cycle of 60 set down in the Memoir, is the same as if the solar year was already begun. 3dly. PE R E D U CH A m P, irl hls table of the names of the years of the cycle of 60, given irl the same book, has added to SOmC 05 them the corrEsponding year of Christ, together with a day of the month. This dayv in all of themv ls the day next aRer the new moon, preceding the Sbeginning of the solar year: and though no explanation is given, must evidently be interlded fior tile day orl which the year beglns. Arld, 4thly. It is said irl the Syeen SkbeSry, by ABRAHAM ROGER, and, I believe, some other allthors, that the year begins ar: this time. To the three last autherities, indeed, it may be-obiectedX that they are takerl from places irl which we do not krlow that the Benares almanac is used; but they shew, that in some parts of Irldia the year begins at that time.> and tf it eloes so in arly place, it most likely does at Eenares 386Mr. CAVENDISH on the Civil Cearto 24°, is called the second teetIlee ; and so on till the fiall lnoon # after which the teethees returrl ill the same order as before. lRhe civil day is constantly called by the number of that teethee whicll expires during the course of tlne day. As tlle teetllee is sometimes longer thatl o:ne day, a day some times occurs in which no teethee ellds. When this is the cases the day is called by the same number as the following day > so that two successive days go by the same nanze. It oftener happens that two teethees end on the salue day ill which case the number of the lErst of thetn gives l;lame tc) tlle day, and there is no day called by the number of the last; so that agap is made in tEle order of the days. In the latter part of the month tlle days are counted from the full moon,:in the salue manner as in the former part they are counted ffrom the new -moon ; only the last day, or that on which the« new moon happens, is called the 30th instead of Ethe st,th It follows from whathas been said, that each half of the motlth constantly begitls on the day after that on which the llew or full moon falls; only 50metimes the half morltll begins with the second day, the first being wantitlg. The manner of counting the days, as we have seen9 is sufficiently intricate; but that of collntirlg the months, is stilI more so* The CiYu year as svas before said, begins at the day afte-r the new lnoon X and moreover, in the years which have an intercalary month tiois month begins at the day after the r new moon ; but n-otwithstanding this, the ordinary civil month begins at the day after the full moon. To malie their mew sthod more irltelligible, I nvill call the time from new moon to F kS Apv s j b j wof the Hindoos, and its Divisions. 387 new mooll, the natural month. The civil month Visakha begins at the day afler the full moon of that natural month which commences at the beginning of the civil year, or in , R c)ther words, at the day after the full moon of that natural nonth during which the SUll enters the first Hindoo sign. Jyeshtha begins con the day after the full moon of that natural tnollth durillg which the sun enters the second sign, and so on. The names of the civil rnonths, vvtith the names of the signs which the sun enters during the natural tnonth at the full moon of which the civil month begins, are given in the followirlg tabIe, to which I have also added the day of our month when the sun entered that sign in the latter part of the year 1784, and beginning of 178$, taken from the Benares almanac, the time of the-day: being counted from sun-rise and expressed in the Hindoo xnanner.Day on which the @ enters it. 1784. day. dan. pa. April 9, 37, i7 May lo, 34, 8 June 1 , o, 8 July 1 2, 37, S8 August 3 7 Sept. , 7 g6 Octob. 13 32, SS Nov. 12 2S, 38 Decem. 1l, S+, o8 1785 an.Io , ] Feb. 8>40, 21 March zo, sb, 38C;vil Month. Visakha Jyeshtha .. Ashara bravana 13hadra Asweena Karteeka Margaseersha Powsha 1 Magna Plialgoona Chitra -signMesha Vreesha Meetoorla Karkata Seengha err oanya _ 1 oolas Vreescheeka Dhanoo tMakara Koombha Meena $88-Mr CAYENDISH on the Civil SevrIt may be obsersred, that in general,:-Visakha begins at the day after that full mooll whicll is nearest to the instant at which the sun enters Meshas whether before or after; however, it is not always accurately the llearest. The two parts of eacll molatll are distinguished in these almanacs by the adclition of the syllables vadee and soodha to the ntame; thus the first half of Visakha, or that from the day after the fulls to the day after the new luoon is called Visakha-vadee, and the remainder Visakha-soodha @ ; but, I be lieves the more usual wayof distingu}shlng them is by the urords: kreeshna paksb or the dark side, and sookla paks1bv the bright side. A consequence of this way of counting the montlls iss that the {irst half of Chitra fills in one year, and the latter half in the followirlg year. Whenever the 5uri enters no signduring a natural montlla this nonth is irltercalary, and makes all irregularity, hich may best be explained by an example. In the year wy79, the sun entered itltO no sign during the aatural -month n7hich began at the end ol: the first fortniglltof Sravatla; accordillgly the whole of this tuollth was intercalary, and the fortllight which prececled it sras called NeeJa Sravana vadee, instead of sitnply Sravarla vadee, as it vvould otherwlse halre been xatlled. rr31e first half of the 1ntercalary month was called A(lheeka Sraxtana soodha and the latter hal£ Adheeka Sravana vadee, and the fortnight after the interoalary month, Neqa Sravana soodha*+ * Soodha signifies clear, pure, or complete; but the word Yadge is not to be found ;n any of Mr. WI L K I NS5S dictionaries. + Adheekcz signifies over and above, or irltercalary. Neeja prefixed to the tiame ef the month sigIlifies that month itselE. tJ(the Hindoos, and its Divisions389It appearss therefore, that the two parts of the month where $he intercalation takes place, are separated from each other by the interxral of the svhole lntercalary months and have the word Biteeja prefixed to them; and the two parts of the-intercalary nozth are called by the same name, but have the vrord Ad eelKa prefixed.-* I these aImanacs no notice is taken of the solar monthsX aotwithstanding that a column is allotted tc) the day of the -9dahometan calexldar.> which seems to shew that, in the COUl1s tries whlch use the Benares patra, it is not customary to date hy the .solar montI; for it is Yery unlikely tllat the computers of these almanacs should have given the days of the Maho xnetan calendar, and yet have olnitted (lays used ill their own. In those parts of Ind-ia svhich use the Nadeea patraX the case is quite cliSerent. This alluallac contains the name of the solar and Iunar morltll, svith the corresponding-days of the week atfflnd solar rrlonth, and the 1lumber of the lunar teethee which 6 What has beenhere said, agrees perfiectly with MrtWILKINS7S almanacs; the only doubt is, whether there may not be some diflSerent method of regulating the month, thich may also agree with these almanacs, and may be the tree one. It is proper, :herefore, that I should state my reasons br the accollnt here given. DU CHAMP, tho seems a very accurate writer, says (see BAILLY, P. 3zo) that he was infiormed eby g lSindoo calculator, that whenever the sun enters no sig;n during a lunar month, thai: morlth is doubled. This passage agrees very well with these almanacs, if by month ave mean the time between two new moons; but disagrees entirely with them if we mean by it the time between two full lnoons; and moreover, in Mr.W:ttaIss'$ almanac it is the period from one new moon to another, which is calIed Adheek: It $eelns certain, therefiore, that in this passage the word rrorl-th must mean what I hate called the natural lzzonth; and that the rule for intercalatioI^l is such as I have mentioned, nalnelr, that i.t shall take place whenever the sun enters no sign during-the na tural morlth. It is certain also that the ordinary civil mon-th begltns at the day after the full moon; and granting these two points, I cannot see any way in which the months ean be regulated so as to di5er in substance firom what I have said MDCCSCII. 3 E Mr. CAS5NDISH O? the Cz+vil lKear59o ends on-those days. It leg;ins with the clay afier that oll wllicll tile astrononical ayear contmencns. This is tuarked as t11e first of the llzonths tlae llext day is called the secondt and so on rep;ularly to tIze end of the rllonth. In like mannern all the other motatlls begin on the day aft-er the astronotnical orr}lmencement, and the days are continued regularly tQ the elld, so tllat the number of days in the morlth varies frotn 29 t0 32. 0 * Perhaps I do not exrpress rnyself acculately in saying that the civil menth begins at the day aRer the commenceinent of the astrotlomica1. It is tlae} that ill this alma>-3lac it is the day aRer the commencemerlt vf the astronomical morlth, which is marked by the number one; but it must be observed that the Htndoos count by years complete, not by years current: for examples the year IOOO 05 the Kalee Yug begins at the time when IOOO years are completed from the Ralee Yug; aIld it is likely that the same manner of counting is adopted with regard to daysX so ttlat the day of the rnonth malked one, does not signify the first day but the day wh;ch begins at the expiration of the Srst day, and consequently that the civil month begins at the sun-rise of the day on which th astronomical month begins. I, however, have chosen tc? say that it begins at the day after, partly because I am not sllre that the iregoing is the true mearing of the Hindoos>-and partly because it would have been difficult to express myself in such manner as Ilot tQ run great risk of being misunderstood if I had done otherwise What is here said applies equally to the lunar month ill this arld the Benarns almanacs. Though it iF foreign to the subject of this paper, I cannot refirairl from taking Ilotice of an errorX which I apprehend many Europe-an astronomers have Sllen into, fronl not distinguishing between days current and days cornplete. It is common to say that the astronomical day be$ins twelve hours later thar} the civil day, and the nautical day twelve hours sooner; and ;t is true that the hour, which, according to the civil account is called olse in the aRernoon of the first of JanuaryX is written by astronomers January sd Ih, but this, I apprehend, ought not to be read lh on the Ist of January, but 1(l and sh from the beginning of January, so that inXreality the astronomical at}d nautical day both begin I Zh before the civil. A proof of the truth of this is, that in astronomical tables the place of the heavenly bodies set down for the beginning of the year) is the place for noon of the last cisll day of the preceding year, and moreover in HA L L E T2S tables this place is said to be -annis *7ulianis ixeuntibus, which shews that he thought that: this was not mely a practlce used for the sake of conveniexlces but that the year ac tuallJr beglus at 8:his timef of tbe Hindoos, and zts Dizisionse391The narnes of the months are the same as those of zthe lunar luotaths in the Bezares patra, Visakha bWing tIze firstn or that which correspolldfs svith the sign ASesha. lthe lunar months beglnX <ot at the full, as itl the Benares patra but at the nestr llSOQn and are called by the name of that solar montll wlaich ends during the course of thern; for e:Xuraple, the lunar morltll, during wllich tlle solar morlth Visakha elzds, is called Chandra (or lutlar) Yisaklla so that each motlth begins a fortnight later than by the l3ellaloes patrA. The teethees do not recotllmence at the full tnoon, wbut are continued to the end of the Inoilth, or to the 30tl1. I1< other reSpects they are colnted as in tlae ISenares patra; that iss tlle same notatioll is used svhenever a day occurs illvvstliich no teethee ends, or when tsvo teethees end on the same dayw Unlucklly no intercalary month occurred in the fiear forA which this altmarzac was compllted, so that it gives us IRC) in-+ forluatiott aboul: tEle metllod of itltercalatiotl; but ftom analogy we lnay conclude, tllat those lutlar morlths in which the sun enters no sign are intercalary, alld are called by the natne of either tlle preceding or folloxving month, with tlle additi-on of sonze word to denote tlaat they are itltesrcalary. $ As the NaGleea almanac begins with the day after the commencement of the solar year, and gives tlle day of the solar nlOntll, W}liC41 the Benares patra does not, it affords reason to think that the custom of that part of India in which it is used, is to date by the solar months and begin the year on the nexts * The Chinese, who. like the Hindoos) consider that lunar month as intercalary ir which the sun enters no sign, call it by the same name as the precedint, month; anA it is likely that the Bengalese do so too s E 2 lLfr. CAGrENDISH 0X t;he Civil Y§earday to th-e astronoznical year; and accordingly Mr. WILKINS it{tmS me) that t11e Hiladoos of Betl<gal in all their commo transactiollS date according to solar time, and use what is cozutnonly callexl tile Bellgal era, but in the correspondence of tIze Brahtnins, dating bot3ks7 atld regulating feasts and fasts, they generally tzof:e the teethee ;and if theyear is mentioned9 it is ofi;en that of Veeliramacleetyag sol*zetimes that of Salacra Aal1a, but mQre frequently the vulgar Betlgal year. F>rom what has been saidn it appears, tllat the Hindoo civil n}onths, both solar and lunar CO11SiSt, neitherof a (letermi nate number of days, nor are regulated by ally cycle, but kle pend solely on the motions of the sun and tuoonX so that a tlindoo has no way of knovvting Bthat day of tile month it isS btlt by consultitlg his almanac; alad NY1Zat RS more9 the montl ought sometitnes to begin on different days, in difirellt placesg on account of the differenee-in latitude and longitude, not-to mention the diffierenGe which may arise frorn errors in com putation. The inconvetlience with which this must be attended seemed so great to me, that two or tlaree years agos by the assistance of Sir JOSEPH BANKS, I proposed a query orl; the subject to Mro DA\FIS, author of the very valuable paper, in the Asiatic Researches, on the fIindsoo astronomy, itlquiring whether any method was taken to avoid*tl1e ambiguity, and was favoured with the following allswer. sc ASy Pundit, and others with whom I have conrrersed otz thec; subJect, althougll srell aware of the ciroumstance(that tlle ( month may begin on different days in different places) do {' not think the ambiguity thence arisirlg of mucll consequerlcet 6{ nox is there arly method they know of taken to avoid it of tbe Hindoos. and its Divisions393sc The almanacs in common use4 are computed at Benaresy tC lsirhllt, ancE Wadeea, the three: principal seminaries of sc Hin[loo leartling in tll-e Compatly's provillces, whence they 6; are atlnually dispersed throughout the adJacent country. Esrery Brahmin in clllarge of a ternple) or whose dtlty it is s; to annoutlce the times for the observance of religious cere c; molliesa is furnished vith one of these almanacs ; andif lle 6 be an astronolmer) he makes such ccarrections in it as the 6; diffierence of latitude and lotagitude rendLer necessartr. sc The beginnitlg of thew solar motlth falling on diffierelat s; days of tlle veekn is not as I have observed, -regarded; ; but a disagreement in the computat;ion of tlae teethee, which sometimes also 11appens) occasions no slmall perplexity, s; because by the teethees or lunar dayse are regulated most {; of tlleir religious festivals and I am assured that an inC6 stance of this kwlld, which occurred ixa Cossim Ally's time, '; obliged the RWah of Nadeea to settle by proclamation whicl { of the disputed corxlputations should be regarded as the 6C trwle one*') To the best of Mrh WILKINS>S kno-wledge, the Nadeea al manac is tIsed a11 over Bengal and the Benares all over the upper part of India: and it is likely, therefores that the Tirhut is used all over Baha-r; but of the nature of this almanac I have no information; only to judge from the date of the inscription found at Mongueert it is more likely to agree with the Nadeea than Benares patra. As one of Mr.WILKINss Benares patras came from Salsette, we may conclude that this altnanac is in use in that part of * A district in North Bahar. t Asiatic Researchesl Yol. It pe 1L27* Mr CAVEND-ISH 08 the Czvil tevrg94 India. The inscriptions toov found at Salsette and Dthli:,$ confirm the opinions that this matlner of datitlg ss in use in both those places, as both are dated by the day of the bright side of th& tnoon. It^ appears from P DU CHAMPX -and P. PATOUILLET, a1w1d I lelieve I lmay add ABRASAM I20GER, tllat in the part of Indsa kom svhich they svrite, the civ-il year begins at the newmoon be-fore the beginnillg of theastronomical year ; Ms which seems to shew tlzat the Benares nzalaner of dating is in use in great part of tlle coast of Coromandel ; Ebut there is sotne reason to thinks that in t}ze rleighbourhood of Madras and Pcorldicherry, they date in a tnanner diff-erent fron that used either at Benares or Nadeea: for Mr. C)MENAIL luakes the month Chitra or Sitterey, as 11e spells it, correspond with the sigrl Mesh itl which he agrees svitll an almanac published by an European at Madras, which seems to shew that in those places they date by solar months but make Chitra correspond with tlle first sign. Mr WILKrNs thinks he has heard of one or two places on the east coust of the Peninsula, and in particular Orissa, at which all:nanacs are computed; but he is not acquaitlted witl the nature of thema I shall now grve a more particular accourt of the three almanacs The two Benares patras are preceded ty a preface. ne Asiatic Researchess Alol. T. p, 363, and 379. t Narsapour, Eom which P. P A TOU I I, L £ T writes, is near the coast, and in the lati txlde of 16°'2 N. Chrisnabouram, from which P. D U CH AMP'S Memoir is sent, is in nearly the salne latitude, but about ac irlland, and Paliacat, where AB R A H A M ROG E R resided, 1S on the coast, in the latittlde of I3°'2, 0 near 2 a slegree N of Madras. This author howelrers has expressed himself so inaccuratelys that I am not sure whether they begin the year at that time or not. off tIJe Hilzeloos} and its lDi7visions.39ssvhich begitls wtith an invocation to the Deityv and then gives a wllitmsical ac&()urlt Gf the four ToogaS, or ages and of the in^Seriority 8f each sucseeding age to tlaat precedlng it and concludes with astrological retllarkst tlthere are no titles to atly of the columrls of w-hich the a1 mataacs are coruposed nor is atly explanation of them given in atay part of the wtotk t but by a careful examination of the numbers, a person acquailatecl with astronomical computations may, without much difficulty fitld out vlleir meanitlg. The calendar part contains one page for each half of the lunar month. At the top of each page is given the year of the eras of Veekratuadeetya and SalavahanaX After this cotnes the natne of the lnonthX and in one almallac is given also the name and laumber of the month used by the Mahometans. The part below this consists of eleven columns The first gives the day of the month, according to the civil reckoning; the next the day of the week , alad the two following contalll the time of the day that is the danda and pala at wllich the lunar tee.thee ends The fifth column contains the name of the tlakshatra X wllich the moon quits during the course of the day; and the two next shew the titne at which ffie qults lt. tlthe three next columns are very odd; they serve to shew thelnoons place in what may be called a moveable zodiac the first point of wllich moves backsvards with the same velocity witll which the sun moures forwards and coincides with the sun -at the beginning and middle of the IfIindoo year Xflhis zodiac is divided into twentyseven equal partss and the* Ol;hervsse called the 27 luxlar mansions. sg6Mr. CAGrENDISH On the Cizoil Cearfirst of these three columns ^,isres the name of the e7th part which the raoon quits during the cotirse of the day and the two others the time at which she quits it. I do not know what use these columns can be applled to, unless t}at of astrology. No trace of any thing of the kind has occurred to me in-any account of the -:E{indoo ast-r¢rlomy . In these columns the names of the days of the week, and naksllatras are expressed by tlle first syllable of the word. The last column is the day of the month used by the 1Wa hometans As no explanatioll of these columlas is given in the alma nacs, it will be proper to mention my reasorls for supposing the?m to be such as I have asserted. lthe numbers in the third arld fourth columrl increase while themoon is near 11er apogees and diminish during tlle rest -of the nnonth a -hich shews that it must; be tEle time at which the lnooll colnpletes solne part of a revolution ; and by examinillg these nutnbers during tsvelve revolutions of the moon itl anomaly, it appears that the tnoon moves over g6 of these parts in 3Sod 4ldan 4*Spal. which diffiers very little from the time answering to gg6 teethees, so that tlaere can be xlo doubt but that these columrls sllew the time at which the teethee endso But a further proof of the truth of it is, that the time gisren in these columns for the end of the last teethee of each half month, agrees pretty nearly with the time of the new and full moon given in the nautical almanacX after allowing for the difference of longitude between Greenwich and * From a circumstaIlce .not worth mentioning, I find that the place of the moon i this moveable zodiac, is called tbe Yug. qf tbe Hindoos, and its Dlvisions.397Benarffl, and the time betsveen sua-rise} at the latter places and noon; which shews also that the tlme in l;}aese columns is reckoned fiom sun-rise, as migllt natTtrally be expected. In regard to the tnool<)s place gn the llakshatras and movteable zodiac it appears by examining the fifth alld eighth co l^utns) that in each of them are 27 tharactersy wshicll rettlrll mnstantly in order, except when the regularity is brokenj either by the moon guittin-g two spaces ill the same dayX or by not quitting ally oLae space in the days The numbers al50,i sboth in the sixth atld searentiz, and in the ninth and tetatl colulnns3! itacrease wllen tlle llloon is Ilear the apogeey and dinlilliSh hetl she is near the perigee, which sllews that they must be the time at nthich the moon finishes some 27th part of a revolutiotl o:f olle kitad or other ; and by examitlillg the alteration of the numbers cluring twelve revolutions of tlle moon in anontaly, it appears first that the nlOOIl describes e6 of the spacea gisen in the fifth column, ill 32^9d 57datl 323pal wllich is the tilue ol1 wthich tlle nlwll moves over tllat number of naksllatras; alad seco2ldly, that the mooIl describes 350 of the spaces given ln tlle eighth column in g29d S6dans 48Pa-l whsch is the time in Whicll tEat SUIl1 of the lmean motions of the moon arld sUl1 are equal to 4So 7ths of a circle; or in other Xrords, is the tilne in which tlle moonls motioll in the molreable zediac is SSo oF these e7th parts; and noreover) I cannc)t filld any otller 27th of a r-evolutioll of the moon uthich will agree vitil tlli$ tilne; rhich is a sufficient proof that the llulnbers in the *lillth alad tetltll columlls are tEle times at rhi the moon quits vne of tllese e-7til parts itl the move6 . ab e zodiac. 13ut a thing w lich more strongly proves the trllth of this alld which aIso shews that the first point of this I)CCXC I * j; Mr. CAVENDISH on tbe Ci7wil 3)fear398moveable zadiac coincides with the first point of the fixed zodiac, when theR SUII also coincides with it is this: according to my sllppositiorl it is evident, that Bhenever tl}e sun quits a nakshatra at the sarne time that the moon quits soale other nakshatra, the moon must at the same time quit some 27th part of the moveable zodiac; and consequently that the -numbers in the ninth and tenth colutlllls shollld agree with those in the sixth and seventh; and accordingly nve find, that on all the days of the year, in which tile sun quits a naksleatra7 the numbers in these two pairs of columus are nearly alike. Underneath these eleven columns ale tables of the diurnal notion aild places of the sun and five planets, atld of the moon's node in the Hindoo zodiac, for each sveek of the year; and betweell these tables and the eleven columns is set down the day ofthe month and week9 alld number of tlle sveek for hich these places are g;ven, alld also the interval at that time between sun-rise and midrlight. and the lengtll ofthe day. The day of the week for which these places are givellfi is that which is the first in the current solar year, and the number of the week is also counted fromthe beginlling of the solar year. The places are given for midnight. On the right hand of the eleven principal columns is a space allotted for miscellaneous occtlrrerlces. In this is set dLown the time at which the sun enters each signX and the beginning and end of eclipses. In these two years no solar eclipses were visible, but the end of the lullar eclipse is denoted by a Sanskreet word, sigtaifying delivery; the meaning of the term used for the beginning is not so clearO The I1USber of digits eclipsed is not set down. The otIzerarticles in og t7se Hindoos, and its JOivisions9this space consist chiefly of the time at which the moon and planets corne to certain situatiot-s. ()f tllis there is taot a great deal which I ullderstand, ad what I do, is not worth takixlg alotsce of. There are also solme figures and tables betsseen the preface and calendar, which, as far as I catl find, relate oulsr to astrology. The tWadeea altnanac contains, besides the articles abovenzentioned, the time of the day at which the lunar teethee ends, the nutnber of the nakshatra and yug (place in the mo^teable sodiac) whicll the rnoons quits on that day, and the titne at which she quits them, besides a few occasional remarks. It is disposed in a much coarser manner than the Benares patra, as each page contains as many days as it will hold, so that the montl-l seldom begins at the beginning of a page. It contains no preface, and rlo explanatiorl of the columnss The days of the w-eek are not detloted :by the first syllables of tlle nalne,bllt only by a ntlmber, expreSssing tlleir ordeP in the week svhich caused some troubIe in finding what day was meant by these numbers; -but by a variety of circumstallcess I think it certain that the number 1 must denote Sunday 