(425) VI. An Account of Mr. Mark Catesby's Essay towards the Natural History of Carolina and the Bahama Islands, with some Extracts out of the first three Sets. By Dr. Mortimer, R. S. Secr. O U R Author proposes in this Work to give the Figures of the Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Serpents, Insects and Plants, the greatest Part whereof have never been described by any Author, or no good Figures given of them. He gives the Description of them in English and French, with Observations of the Air, Soil and Water; and an Account of the Agriculture, Grain, Pulse, Roots, and other Productions of the Country, with a Map of the same. The Author was near four Years in these Parts, where he designed every thing from Nature in their proper Colours: in order to make the coloured Prints almost equal to his Original Paintings, he engraves and colours them with his own Hand. In this short Account I shall recite the Names of the several Animals and Plants, and as a Specimen of what is described more at large just hint some few of the remarkable Things which occur in the Descriptions of them. 1. He begins with the Aquila capite albo, the bald Eagle. This Bird lives on Fish. 2. Accipiter Piscatorius, the Fishing Hawk. This also lives on Fish, which it takes by plunging into the Water. The bald Eagle commonly attends him, and (426) and when he sees that an Hawk hath got a Fish, he compels him to let it fall, and is so very swift as seldom to fail catching it before it comes to the Water. 3. Accipiter Plumbarius, the Pigeon Hawk, somewhat resembling ours, only it hath four white Lines cross its Tail. 4. Accipiter Cauda furcata, the Swallow-tail Hawk. 5. Accipiter minor, the little Hawk. 6. Buteo, Specie Gallo-Pavonis: seu Vultur Gallinae Africanae facie Hist. Jam. p. 294. Vol.II. The Turkey Buzzard. This Bird feeds on Carrion, and is wonderfully sagacious in smelling a Carcass at a very great Distance. 7. Noctua Aurita minor, the little Owl. 8. Caprimulgus, the Goat-sucker, which feeds on Insects, with a Grillo-talpa. 9. Cuculus Carolinensis the Cuckow; with the Castanea pumila Virginiana, fructu racemoso parvo, in singulis capsulis echinatis, unico. D. Banister. The Chinkapin. 10. Psittacus Paradisi ex Cuba, the Parrot of Paradise from Cuba; with the Frutex Lauri folio pendulo, fructu tricocco, semine nigro splendente, the Red-wood. 11. Psittacus Carol. the Carolina Parrot, with the American Cypress. 12. Monedula purpurea, the purple Jackdaw. 13. Sturnus niger, alis superne rubentibus, the Red-winged Starling, with the Myrtus Brabanticae similis, 2 (427) similis, Carolinensis humilior, foliis latioribus & magis serratis, the broad-leafed Candle-berry Myrtle. 14. Hortulanus Carol. the Carolina Ortulan, with Rice on which it feeds. 15. Pica Glandaria caerulea cristata, the blue Jay, with the Smilax laevis Lauri folio baccis nigris, the Bay-leaved Smilax. 16. Picus maximus rostro albo, the large white Bill'd Wood-pecker, with the Quercus, an potius Ilex? Marilandica, folio longo angusto salicis, the Willow Oak. Raj Hist. 17. Picus niger maximus capite rubro, the large Red-crested Wood-pecker, with the Quercus semper vivens foliis oblongis non sinuatis. D. Banister, the live Oak. 18. Picus major alis aureis, the Golden-winged Woodpecker; with the Quercus castaneae foliis, procera arbor Virginiana. Pluk. Alma. the Chesnut Oak. 19. Picus ventre rubro, the Red-bellied Woodpecker. Picus mediusquasi villosus, the hairy Woodpecker. Quercus (forte) Marilandica, folio trifido ad Sassafras accedente. Raj Hist. the Black Oak. 20. Picus capite toto rubro, the Red-headed Woodpecker. Quercus folio non serrato in summitate quasi triangulo. the Water Oak. Syringa baccifera, Myrti subrotundis foliis, floribus albis gemellis ex Provincia Floridana. Pluk. Amalth. 198. Tab. 444. 21. Picus varius minor, ventre luteo, the yellow Bellied Wood-pecker. Picus varius minimus, the small spotted Woodpecker. Quercus (428) Quercus alba Virginiana. Parkinson. the WhiteOak. Quercus Carolinensis virentibus venis muricata, the White Oak with pointed Notches. 22. Sitta capite nigro, the Nut-hatch. Sitta capite fusco, the small Nut-hatch. Quercus humilior salicis folio breviore, the Highland Willow Oak. 23. Palumbus Migratorius, the Pigeon of Passage. These come in such incredible Numbers, that in some Places where they roost, which they do sometimes upon one anothers Backs, they have broke down Branches of Oak Trees with their Weight, and leave their Dung some Inches thick on the Ground under them. They are supposed to come far North of the River St. Lawrence. Quercus Esculi divisura foliis amplioribus aculeat is. Pluk. Phytograph. Tab. LIV. the Red Oak. 24. Turtur Carolinensis, the Turtle of Carolina. They feed much on the Berries of the Blitum Virgin. which are Poison, yet these Birds are reckoned good Meat. Anapodophyllon Canadense Morini, vid. Turnef. inst. p. 239 the May-Apple. 25. Columba capite albo. Hist. Jamaic. p. 303. Tab. 261. Vol. II. the white crowned Pigeon. Frutex cotini fere folio crasso, in summitate deliquium patiente, fructu ovali caeruleo, [vel rubro] ossiculum angulosum continente, the Cocoa-Plumb. 26. Turtur minimus Guttatus, the Ground-Dove. Zanthoxylum spinosum, Lentisci longioribus foliis, Euonimi fructu capsulari ex Insula Jamaicensi, D. Banister Phytogr. the Pellitory or Toothach (429) ach Tree. Its Bark is hot and atomatic, and therefore used for the Tooth-ach. 27. Turdus minor, cinereo-albus non maculatus, Hist. Jam. p. 306. Tab. 256. Fig. 3. the MockBird. They mock or imitate the Notes of all Birds, from the humming Bird to the Eagle. Cornus mas Virginiana, flosculis in corymbo digestis, perianthio tetrapetalo albo, radiatim cinctis. Pluk. Almag. 120. the Dogwood Tree. 28. Turdus Russus, the Fox-coloured Thrush. Cerasi similis arbuscula Mariana, paedi folio, flore albo parvo racemoso. Pluk. Mantiss. 43. Tab. CCCXXXIX. the clustered black Cherry. 29. Turdus pilaris, Migratorius, the Fieldsare of Carolina. Aristolochia Pistolochia, seu Serpentaria Virg. caule nodoso. Pluk. Almag. p. 50. Tab. 148. the Snake-root of Virginia. 30. Turdus viscivorus plumbeus, the Red-legged Thrush. Terebinthus major Betulae cortice, fructu triangulari, Hist. Vol. II. p. 89. Tab. 199. the Gum Elemy Tree. 31. Turdus minimus, the little Thrush. Agrifolium Carolinense, foliis dentatis, baccis rubris, the Dahoon Holly. 32. Alauda gutture flavo, the Lark. Gramen Myloicophoron Oxyphyllon Carolinianum. Pluk. Almag. p. 137. Tab. 32. the Sea-side Oat. 33. Alauda magna, the large Lark. Ornithogalum luteum parvum foliis gramineis glabris, the little yellow Star-Flower. M m m 34. Passer (430) 34. Passer niger, oculis rubris, the Towhe Bird. Passer fusca, the Cow-pen Bird. Populus nigra, folio maximo, gemmis Balsamum odoratissimum fundentibus, the black Poplar of Carolina. 35. Passerculus, the little Sparrow. Convolvulus Carolinensis, angusto sagittato folio, flore amplissimo purpureo, radice crassa, the purple Bindweed of Carolina. It is reported that the Indians dawb themselves over with the Juice of this Plant, and then venture to handle Rattle Snakes without any Harm. 36. Passer nivalis, the Snow Bird. Orobanche Virg. flore pentapetalo cernuo Pluk. Almag. p. 273. Tab. CCIX. Fig. 7. Broom Rape. 37. Passerculus bicolor Bahamensis, the Bahama Sparrow. Bignonia arbor pentaphylla, flore roseo majore, siliquis planis Plum. Cat. 38. Cocothraustes rubra, the red Bird, or Virginia Nightingal, called in French, Le Cardinal. Nux Juglans alba Virg. Park. Theatr. 1414. the Hiccory Tree. Nux Juglans Carolinensis, fructu minimo, putamine levi, the Pig-nut. 39. Cocothraustes caelurea, the blue Gross-Beak. Magnolia Lauri folio, subtus albicante, the sweet flowring Bay. 40. Cocothraustes purpurea, the purple Gross-Beak. Toxicodendron, foliis alatis, fructu purpureo, Pyri-formi sparso, the Poison Wood. This Tree distills a Liquid, black like Ink, which the Inhabitants say is Poison. 41. Frin(431) 41. Fringilla purpurea, the purple Finch. Arbor in aqua nascens, foliis latis acuminatis & non dentatis, fructu Eleagni minore, the Tupelo Tree. 42. Fringilla Bahamensis, the Bahama Finch. Arbor, Guajaci latiore folio, Bignoniae flore caeruleo, fructu duro in duas partes disiliente, seminibus alatis imbricatim positis, the broad-leaved Guaicum with blue Flowers. 43. Carduelis Americanus, the American Goldfinch. Acacia, Abruae foliis, triacanthos, capsula ovali unicum semen claudente. 44. Fringilla tricolor, the painted Finch. This is a most beautiful Bird; its Head and Neck are blue; its Back green, and the Belly red: The Hen is plain brown like a Sparrow, and so are the Cocks too, when hatched; and it is several Years before they attain their Colours in Perfection. The Spaniards call it Mariposa pintada, or the painted Butterfly. 45. Linaria caerulea, the blue Linnet. Solanum triphyllon flore hexapetalo carneo. 46. Garrulus Carolinensis, the Chatterer. Frutex corni foliis conjugatis; floribus instar Anemones Stellatae, petalis crassis, rigidis, colore sordide rubente; cortice aromatico. The Bark is as odoriferous as Cinnamon. 47. Rubicula Americana caerulea, the blue Bird. This Bird hath a red Breast (and therefore may be called the Robin Red-breast of America.) M m m 2 Smi(432) Smilax non spinosa humilis, folio Aristolochiae, baccis rubris. 48. Icterus ex aureo nigroque varius, the Baltimore Bird. It hath its Name from being of the same Colour with Lord Baltimore's Coat of Arms, which are yellow and black (Topaz and Diamond.) Arbor Tulipifera Virg. tripartito aceris folio media lacinia velut abscissa. Pluk. Phytogr. Tab 117 & 248, the Tulip Tree, so called, because its Flowers somewhat resemble a Tulip. 49. Icterus minor, the Bastard Baltimore Bird. Bignonia Urucu foliis; flore sordide albo, intus maculis purpureis & luteis asperso; siliqua longissima & angustissima, the Catalpa Tree. 50. Oenantha Americana pectore luteo, the Yellow-breasted Chat. This Bird I never saw in the inhabited Parts: It flies with the Legs extended behind it (like an Heron.) Solanum triphyllon; flore hexapetalo, tribus petalis purpureis erectis, caeteris viridibus reflexis. 51. Hirundo purpurea, the purple Martin. Smilax (forte) lenis, folio anguloso hederaceo. 52. Muscicapa cristata, ventre luteo, the crested Fly-catcher. Smilax, Bryoniae nigrae foliis, caule spinoso, baccis nigris. The Inhabitants of Carolina make a Decoction of the Roots of this Plant, which they esteem a great Cleanser of the Blood; and the tender Shoots in the Spring they boil and eat like Asparagus. They call it there China-Root. 53. Mus(433) 53. Muscicapa nigrescens, the Black-cap Flycatcher. Gelsiminum, sive Jasminum luteum odoratum Virg. scandens, semper virens Park. Theatr. p. 1465. Though Parkinson calls it semper virens, I have always seen it lose its Leaves in Winter. 54. Muscicapa fusca, the little brown Fly-catcher. Muscicapa oculis rubris, the red Eyed Fly-catcher. Arbor lauri folio; floribus ex foliorum alis pentapetalis, pluribus staminibus donatis. 55. Muscicapa corona rubra, the Tyrant. The Courage of this little Bird is singular; he puts to Flight all Birds, both great and small, that come near his Station: He attacks even the Eagle, by fixing on his Back, and so persecutes him till he lights on some Tree, from whence the Eagle dares not to stir till the little Tyrant thinks fit to leave him. When their Young are flown, they are as peaceable as other Birds. Cornus mas odorata, folio trifido margine plano; Sassafras dicta. Pluk. Almag. In Virginia they use a strong Decoction of this Root sometimes with Success in Intermitting Fevers. 56. Muscicapa rubra, the Summer red Bird. Platanus occidentalis, the Western Plane Tree. 57. Parus cristatus, the crested Tit-mouse. Cistus Virginiana, flore & odore Periclymeni D. Banister, the upright Honeysuckle. 58. Parus uropygeo luteo, the yellow Rump. Helleborine, Lilii folio caulem ambiente; flore unico hexapetalo, tribus petalis longis angustis obscure purpureis, caeteris brevioribus roseis, the Lilly-leafed Hellibore. 1 Apocynum (434) Apocynum scandens, folio cordato, flore albo. Dog's-Bane. 59. Parus Bahamensis, the Bahama Titmouse. Arbor, Jasmini floribus albis; foliis Cenchranmideae, fructu Ovali, seminibus parvis nigris mucilagine involutis, the seven Years Apple. He knows not the Reason of the Name, because the Fruit ripens in seven or eight Months Time. 60. Parus cucullo nigro, the hooded Timouse. Arbor in Aqua nascens, foliis latis acuminatis & dentatis, fructu Eleagni majore, the Water Tupelo. 