L o2 XII. On the Solar Eclipse which is said to have been predicted by THALES. By Francis Baily, Esq. Communicated by H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R. S. Read March 14, i-8ii. I1 ER E is probably no fact in ancient history that has given rise to so many discussions, and to such a variety of opinions, as the solar eclipse, which (according to HERODOTUS) is said to have been predicted by THALES; and which, orir-, to a very singular coincidence, put an end to a furious wear that raged between Cyaxares king of Media, and AlyatteI king of Lydia. According to the account given by that celebrated historian, "the contest had continued during five years, with alternate advantages to each party: in the sixth, there was a sort of "nocturnal combat. For, after an equal fortune on both sides, and whilst the two armies were engaging, the day suddenly "became ni~ght. THALES, the Milesian, had predicted this phe. "o nomenon to the Ionians: and had ascertained the time of "the year in which it would happen. The Lydians and the Medes, seeing that the night had thus taken the place of the "day, desisted frotn the combat; and both parties became " desirous of making peace.''v Soon o ar o; Mvo& rovM .AuRoVC' 'r,~sv soXXXI; ZSE 06 ALAMt -roV\; M 1~ov;ev a6 it&\4 VUXTOM~v401xbrl \ \ 7rpolas 617ro7CZZro. O;McPE4OUCu s taft Ear; ;T TOY TOAXLOY9 T/ C E OUCtI J3OaXA VEVO P^1 s1OiJ~iSK WTt' Tq at Ot^"sUsttEE,ant r ^M e1]t.t d)a@S , Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse. 221 V;1/17;mvu ET, M o Vz Twr s P6ToM-G~:,oYv Tamrp TrOO y 7q IOaUtG ' O, 17nslrog 7040% JAJCE qVe0WOln/ETE~ ?ETET~all',eo v~eQ Effm;H Ssylaun TOUTOYS EY X y; e iO PSj mGrA? . ; JiP AuMo; Te xa O; M ndos es ru ?20V 7'~~ E 7EJe o Zl R ;3$ .1 I 1 it .. / /t 17 ETETII X-0;CU Oaf kOST~01 esegtVwY &mU-o;I tXyevecrMai. ERODOTUS, Lib. I. ?. 74. The fact is here very clearly (and probably very justlv) related: but, unfortunately, there is nothing, either in the statement itself, or in the. contiguous passages of the work, that will enable us to determine, with any degree of accuracy, the exact tine wherein this singular phenomenon took place. And this is then more to be regretted, because the dates of several other events, recorded by the same historian, might be more easily ascertained, if the era of this eclipse were correctly knowt n; but which are now involved in much obscurity. Deprived of all information from the body of the work itself, chronologists have called in the aid of astronomy to assist them in fixing the dateof this remarkable appearance. For it must be evident, that if we could ascertain, by this mean, that in any solar eclipse, which happened about that period, the centre of the moon's shadow passed over the country bordering on the two contesting empires where the battle was probably fought (for LHERODOTUs has likewise omitted to rmntion the place where the action occurred), we may reasonably and very fairly conclude, that that eclipse only was the one alluded to by the historian.-In this attempt, however, a great diversity of opinion has arisen; the origin of which it may be useful and entertaining here to trace P in order to recnder my subsequent remarks the more gible, I shall previously state the various dates thab v 222 Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse been assigned to this event by the several authors above alluded to. PLINY places this eclipse in the fourth year of the fortyeighth Olympiad which answers to the year 585 B. C. (Hist. Nat. lib. 2, cap. 12). A similar opinion has been advanced, amongo the ancients, by CIcERo (De Divinat. Rib 1., ?. 49), and probably by EUDEMUS (Clement. Alex. Strom. lib. 1, p. 3541) And, among the moderns, by NEWTON (Chron. f Anc. King. amended), RIccIOLI (Chron. Refor. Vol. 1. p. 228), DESVIGNOLES (C'tronol. lib. 4, chap. 5, ?. 7, &c.), and Bro3S ES (1Ue'm. de l'Acad. des Bel?eS Lettres, Tome ei, Men. p. 33.) SCALIGER, in two of his writinDs (A i1iad. ad Fuseb. p). 89, and in oxup. a'v 4), has adopted the opinion of PLINY; but in another work (De nmen. Temp. inz Can. Isag. p. 321)9 hle fixes the date of this eclipse on the ist of October, 583 B. C. CALVISIUS, who was contemporary witn SCALIGER, thinks that it took place in the year 607 B. C. (Opus Chron.) PETAVIUS says that it happened July 9, 597 B. C. (De Doct. Temp. lib. io, cap. 1): and he has beern followed by l-IAIDOUIN (Dissert. de LXX hebdom. Danz. ?. 3), MARSHAM ( 7ir0n. Cian ,. p. 561), BOUHIER (Recher. et Diss. sur Llierodot, p. 42), and CORSINI (Fast. Attic. Tom. III. p. 68) ; togetfher with M. LARCHER, the French translator of H1ERODOus (Tom. Ie p. 335). UsHER is of opinion that it happened on thi 2oth of Septe m br, 6oi B. C. (Annal. Vet. et YVov. Tes tam.) BAYER has shown, from the astronornical tables then in use, that this 2c>ipse ought to have taken pvace May i8th, 6o?B. C. ( , cac AScient. fzp. Petrop. Tom. III. and he ias been predicted by THAML s. 223 supported in this opinion by the two English astronomners, COSTARD and STUKELEY (Pil. Trans. for 1753, pages 17 and 221I) . Lastly, M. VOLNaY has attempted to show, in a recent publication (Ch ronolo 'ie d'Herodlole) that theeclipse, muentioned by tfhe historian, could be no other tha-,n the one which happened Februa-ry Rd. 626 B. C. Thus we find a distance of no less than forty-three years between the extreme periods that have been assigned for this eclipse: an interval which, however, may be somevhat abridged; since there are other facts recorded by the same historian which enable us to reduce these liYnts, and yet leave the narration consistent with itself. For, according to IERODOTUS, the two kings of Media, that immediately r--receded the conquest of that country by Cyrus, were Cyaxares IA7w o rtigned forty years, and Astyages, who reigned thirty-five years: and it is adinitted by all the chronologists, that Cyrus conquered Astyages in the year 560 B. C. Consequentiy (if the numbers given by HERODOTUS be correct) the reign of Cyaxares extended from 635 13. C. to 59,5 B. C. Ainc, shioe the battle of the eclipse was fought in the sixth yea-r of a war which began J'fter Cyaxares had ascended the thronle it could not happen earlier than 629 B. C. nor later Lha 595 13. C. If therefore ye can find, within this short space of thirty-four years, a solar eclipse that was central and total ina that part of Asia borcderinrr on the two hostile empires, wvhere this battle w7as probably fo ght, we may justly conclude that it was the one alluded to by the historian. I say th~at this eclipse nmust have been a total one, because no a: nutar eclipse (and much 1ess a parlil one) could have 224 Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse produced that degree of obscurity alluded to by HERODOTUS, The celebrated MACLAURIN, in his account of the annular eclipse which happened at Edinburgh, February i8th, 1737, observes (Phil. Trans. Vol. XL, p. 177), that "during the "appearance of the annulus, the direct light of the sun was "still very considerable ; but the places that were shaded from "his light, appeared gloomy:-"-that " day-light was not "greatly obscured; appearing only so much dimmer than usual, as that of the sun is, when seen through a gentle mist in a fine morning in April or May." And, as a further proof of the trifling alteration this phenomenon made, he ohserves, that " there wsas little notice taken of this eclipse by the populace in the country: and I cannot but add, that several gentlemen of very good credit, and not in the least shortsighted, assure me, that about the middle of the annular ape "pearance they were not able to discover the moo; upon the saun, "when they looked without a smoked glass, or something equivalent." In another account likewise of this eclipse, in the same volume, by Sir JOHN CLERK, Bart. it is observed that there was no considerable darkness; bu t the ground was co"vered with a kind of dark greenish colour."' And M. LE MONNIER (who came over from France on purpose to observe the annular eclipse of the sun, which happened July 14th, 1748) says, " that when he looked at the sun with his naked -eyes, during the middle of the eclipse, he could observe nothing "upon the sun, but saw the sun full, though faint in his light." (Phil. Trans. Vol. XLV. p. 588). In the account also which is given, in the MWrnoires de i'Acad. Roy. des Sciences for 1724, of the total eclipse which happened on the 22d of May in that year, it is stated that, at the moment predicted by THALES, when the last portion of the sun was covered by the moon, " la clart6 a diminu& tout d'un cOUP,; de sorte ou'on a cC1 be"soin de lumiere pour compter 'a la pendule: on voyoit Ies "c personnes au grand air, mais on ne distinguoit pas bien les " visages a queiques pas de loin." In another account, in the same volume it is stated, that the darkness came on cans u t ista t; anld that, after an interval of two minutes and sixte ~ seconds "' le soleil commen a 'a reparoitre coinme un eclaz'1r -c qui dissipa sur le cihamp les ten6bres dans lesqeidles on 6toit long6." M. DESVIGNOLES, likewise (in his Chmi o e l'Histoire Sante, Vol. II p. p. 53), gives an extract of a letter fro-n M. ABAUZIT of Geneva, who, at the close of his renar's on the calculation of PETAVIus resnecting this very eclipSes observes 11 ignoroit que le io idre raion, qui commence a poindre, est assez r pour dissiper les ten6bres: comnmeje "/'ai observe' deuxi zs." All wvhich may serve to explain the remarkable expression of HERODOTUS, who says rnv 8'evv +? vu;7r7 ye e'oOa, the day suddenly became night:" a passage which has been igInorantly censured by some of his commentators. It appears to me, that an inattention to these singular facts has been the principal cause of the various opinions that have arisen respecting the time when this ecipse happened. For each chronologist, having a system of his own to support, has satisfied himself merely with ascertaining that a solar eclipse .did take place in the year that lie had assigned for it; and which eclipse he supposed might be visIble in that part of the world bordering on the two hostile countries: but without taking into his account the m .gnitude of the eclipse at the place where the battle is supposed to have been fought. Nowv MDCCCXI. G g s26 Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse since the territories of the two belligerent powers were prow bably separated by the river Halys (which was the case in the subsequent reign, although we have no authentic information that it was so at the period now under consideration), and as the battle was probably fought on the confines of these two empires, I think it will be evident from the preceding extracts, that no solar eclipse couldbe the one mentioned by HLiioDOTUS, unless it was central and total in some part of Asia Minor; that is, the centre of the moon's shadow, in such total eclipse, must have passed over that part of Asia Minor where the contending armies were engaging. Consequently the fact is capable of being verified or disproved by the present state of our knowledge in astronomy. M. TH. S. BAYER is the first who seems to have fixed the attention of the public to this point, in a paper entitled Cbro-s nologica Scythica, inserted in the Petersburg Memoirs for the year 1728. He consulted his friend FRED. CHRIS. MAYER On this subject, who has shown, from the astronomical tables then in use, that neither the eclipse mentioned by PLINY, SCALIGER, CALVISIUS, PETAVIUS, or USHER, could possibly be the eclipse alluded to by HERODOTUS. For, the first two (he says) happened between the hours of sun-set and sun-rise in Asia Minor. In the third, the centre of the moon's shadow passed too near the equator, and in the last two it passed too far to the north of Asia Minor, for it to cause any remarkable obscurity there. In order, however, to set the question at rest,, he calculated all the solar eclipses that could possibly be seen in Asia Minor from the year 6o8 B. C. to 556 B. C.; and he found that the one which took place May i8, 603 B. C. was the only one that was at all likely to be that mentioned by predicted by THALESO 227 NA. HERODOTUS. According to his computation, the centre of the moonr's shadow in that eclipse entered the earth's disk about N. lat. 10 40', and E. long. 2?3 from Ferrol. It proceeded then towards the mouths of the Nile; and, traversing the Mediterranean, crossed Cyprus Cilicia, and Cappadocia, and passed over to Trebizond. The Rev. GEORGE COSTARD, without knowing what M. MAYER had done, has drawn nearly the same conclusions; and has likewise entered into a calculation (from Dr. HALLEY'S tables) of all the eclipses which have been assigned to this event by preceding authors: which may be seen, at length, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1753. In a subsequent paper, in the same volume, Dr. STUKELEY has given a map containing the path of the moon's shadow in this eclipse, den duced from the calculations of a Mr. WEAVER; and which correspond nearly with Mr. COSTARD's. But Mr. COSTARD has suggested an important correction in his computation, by allowing for the moon's acceleration; which does not appear to have been attended to either by M. MAYER or Mr. WEAVER: and which throws the route of the moon's shadow too far to the southward to pass over any part of Asia Minor. For, on this supposition (he observes) the umbra of the moon will leave Africa near Damietta; and, after traversing the southeast corner of the Mediterranean, will enter Syria between Tripoli and Tyre: and, proceeding across Mesopotamia, between Nisibin and Mosul, will enter the Caspian sea near Ardebil. Notwithstanding this circumstance, however, the date here assigned has continued to be received as the true date of the battle of the eclipse by all succeeding chronologists; although it must be evident, even from these data, that G g 2 28S Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse such ecipse could not be total any where near the Place xwhere the battle was probably fought. But none of these calculations can have much weight at the present day, since they must have been formed from tables wvicili the subsequent improvements in astronomy have shown to be exceedingly defective and incorrect. Even the mean, motions of the sun and moon are niot given with a sufficient degree of accuracy, either in the Rudolphine or 1-lalleian tables, to enable us to determine, with any tolerable correctness, their true mean place of conjunction at so remote a pe riod: neither can the lunar equations, there given, be safely depended upon. The secular varzations also are wholly omnittedc: and these must have an important effect in all inquiiies of this kind, since they increase in proportion to the pericd of time elapsed. Under these circumstances, and in order to set this question at rest, as far as it can now be done by the aid of astronomical science, I have been induced to re-calculate the elements of the several eclipses, above alluded to, from the new Tables /istronomiques, lately published by the Bureau des Lo~ngitudes in France. In these tables, the nmean motions (-f the sun and moon are given with the greatest exactness for the most distant periods : and, by the successive labours Of MAYER, MASON, and BURG, the lunar equations are carried to an astonishing correctness; which, together with the secular variations deduced from the forn1ulae of M. LAPLACE, entbhe us to determine the true place of the sun and moon with considerable accuracy for many centuries prior to the Christian era. 'Tiese calculations, at full lei gth, together with a map containing the -paths of the moorn's shadow in the several eclipses there predicted by THALES. 229 alluded to, are sent with this paper for the inspection of the Members of the Royal Society, should they be desirous of entering bmore fully into the detail. The substance of those inquiries I shall now proceed to lay before them. The eclipse, which is supposed to have been that alluded to by PLINY, happened May 28th, 585 B. C.: andthe time of the ecliptic conjunction was at . 38' 22" in the afternoon, mean time at Greenwich, or 2h 46' 2" apparent time. The element were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries is 29' 41' 4'1 Sun's declination, north 20 23 17 semi-diameter 5 45 Moon's semi-diameter i6 43 equatorial parallax 6i 13 horary motion from the sun 35 29 true latitude 12 39 horary motion in latitude 3 30 By a projection of this eclipse, I find that the sun was centfrally eclipsed on the meridian, about the middle of the Atlantic oc~ean, in N. lat. 33and W. long. 43E. The centre of the moon-'s shadowv then proceeded to the parallel of N. lat. 400, in W. long. 130; where, turning to the southward, it crossed Spain, and traversed the course of the Mediterranean. By a trigonometrical calculation I have ascertained that the sun set centrally eclipsed on the borders of the Red Sea in N. lat. 280 1I, and E. long. 3,D 2'. So that at i o time was this eclipse central in or near any part of Asia Minor. It happened likeswise ten years after the death of Cyaxares, according to the received chronology.230 Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse With respect to the eclipse, which happened October ist, 583 B. C. it is sufficient to observe that, as the ecliptic conjunction of the sun and moon did not take place till after four o'clock in the afternoon at Greenwich, it is evident that the sun must have set, centrally eclipsed, to the westward of any meridian line that can be drawn through any part of Asia Minor: and consequently the eclipse could not have been central in that peninsula. CALVIsIUs does not come much nearer the truth, in supposing that the eclipse mentioned by HERODOTUS is the one which occurred in 607 B. C. For in that which happened July 3oth, the ecliptic conjunction took place at 8h 26' 18" in the morning, mean time at Greenwich, or 8b A' h " apparent time: and the elements were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries 3s 290 6' 54t Sun's declination north 20 38 39 semidiameter -5 Moon's semi-diameter -15 10 equatorial parallax 5 33 horary motion from the sun 27 41 true latitude, south 2 17 horary motion in latitude 2 46 By a trigonometrical calculation, I find that the sun rose centrally eclipsed off the coast of Sierra Leona in N. lat. 8? Ai' and W. long. 120 3g'. The moon's umbra then crossed the continent of Africa between the loth and 20th degrees of ,,orth latitude: and the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in Arabia Felix, in N. lat. oi 81 and E. long. 8? 24'. It is evident, therefore, that this eclipse (independent of its pXredicted by TIHALESS 231 being annular) was not central in any part of Asia Minor. The other eclipse in this year, which took place February 2d, happened when it was near midnight in Asia Minor. The eclipse mentioned by PETAVIUS took place July 9th, 597 B. C. The ecliptic conjunction happened at 4h 29' 2,5" in the morning, mean time at Greenwich, or 411 29' 58" apparent time: and the elements were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries 1s 96 i' 32" Sun's declination, north 23 28 i8 se.nA-diameter 1 i 49 Moon's semi-diameter 1 14 50 w -equatorial parallax 54 23 hhorary motion from the sun 27 32 true latitude 41 59 horary motion in latitude -2 9 By a trigonometrical calculation, I find that the sun rose ceitr fly eclipsed to the inhabitants of Holland in N. lat. Si 4A' and E. long. 5' 39' The moon's umbra then proceeded across Denmark, Finland, and the northern provinces of Russia: and the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 74j0o and E. long. 130 35A. This eclipse, therefore, could not possibly be the onementioned by HERODOTUS, And yet his translator, M. LARCHER, without taking the slightest pains to verify the fact, or even to ascertain its probability, has adopted it as the most likely one,," parcequ'elle s`accorde mieux avec la chronologie que toutes les autres"'-' an opinion as unfounded, as the circumstance to which it relates; and an assumption which puts the visionary speculations of the antiquarian in competition with the immutable laws of nature. It 3SG l Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse is scarcely necessary to add, that this eclipse likewise was annular. In the eclipse alluded to by USHER, September 20th, 6o1 B. C. the ecliptic conj unction took place at 7h 2q5' 18" in axc morning, mean time at Greenwich, or 7h 31' 35" apparent timev and the elements were as follow True longitude of the luminaries 2s0 46' 50" Sun's declination, north 3 42 27 semi-diameter i 6 8 Moon's semi-diameter 16 43 equatorial parallax 6-i 14 horary motion from the sul: 3' 24 tr ue latitude A 52 1 horary motion in latitude 3 97 From a projection of this eclipse, it will be seen that the centre of the moon 's shadow entered the earth's disk very near the north pole; and that the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 73-0 and in E. long 72? zoo. The umbra then passed over Siberia and the eastern parts of the Chinese empire: and consequently this eclipse was not central in any part of Asia Minor. The eclipse first suggested by BAYER, and hitherto generally received as the true one, happened May 18th, 603 B. C. ihe ecliptic coijunction took place at 71 12c' 13" in the morning, mean time at Greenwich, or 7h 19' 36" apparent time: and the elements were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries 1i 19' 15' 44" Sun's declination, north 17 48 24 -I semi-diameter 15 46 bedicted -by cTHALS. 933 Moon's semi-diameter 1t6' 43" equatc.orial Parallax 6i i6 horary motion from the suen A5 E2 true latitude 1 7 15 horarv motion in latitude 3 0e By a trigonometrical calculation, I find that the sun rose centrally eclipsed in S. lat. ? 9' and E. long. 0o 46'. The rmoon's umbra then passed over the continent of Africa in a north-easterly direction; and, crossing the Red Sea, entered Arabia near Mecca, continuing its course over the provinces of Kermn an d Segistan in Persia. The sun afterwards became centrallyt eclipsed on the meridian in N. lat. 35-? and E. long. 68'. Consequently this eclipse could not be central in any part of Asia Minor: and yet it has generally been considered, of gate yJars, as the only one that could be reconciled to the fact. Lastly, I shall notice the eclipse proposed by M. VOLNEY, which happened February 3d, 626 B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 4 19' 27", in the m lorning, mean time at Greenwich, or 4h 0' 9]' aparent time: and the elements were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries 1 Os 70 47' 47I" Sun's d~clinatiol, south i8 35 50 _ sel-diameter i6 7 Moon's semi-diameter i 6 equatorial parallax A d 56 horary mouiion from tile sun 29 13 MDCCCXI. HI h 34 SMr. BAILY 0o [fe te0o1:r Ecihpse Moon's true latitude 44 9,8 horary motion Din latitude 2 53 By a trigonometrical calculation, I have ascertained that the sun rose centrally eclipsed to the inhabitants of Great BIuccharia in N. lat. 40? 17', and E. long. 6i? I'm: and the moon's umbra then proceeded in a south-easterly direction across Thibet and China. Consequently this eclipse (which, noreover, was an annular one) could not possibly be central in any part of Asia lying to the west of theCaspian Sea: and M. VOLNEY ought to have taken some steps towards ascertaining this fact, before he ventured to set up his own opinion in opposition to all preceding chronologists. I have thus shown, from the most correct evidence which the present state of astronomical science affords, tVat not one of the eclipses, mentioned by either of the authors above alluded to, could possibly be that which is recorded in so singular a manner by HERODOTUS. In order, however, that I might not leave the subject in the same degree of doubt in which I found it, I have taken the pains to calculate all the solar eclipses that were likely to have been visible in Asia Minor, from the year 65o B. C. to 580 B. C.: but, out of this period of seventy years, I have found only one that was central in, or near, any part of that peninsula. The eclipse here alluded to, happened September 3oth, 61o B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 8'1 ia' 5pi" in the i orning, mean time at Greenwich, or 8h g +' apparent timei a-d the elements were as follow: pi-dicted by PRALS 235 True longitude of the luminaries 5, 290 59' 40"' Sun's declination, north o 8 semi-diameter i6 io Moon's semi-diameter 36 _ equatorial parallax 0Go 5o horary motion from the sun 34 53 true latitude 29 57 horary motion in latitude 3 26 Since the sun's declination in this eclipse was only eight seconds, it may safely be neglected in the calculation; and it may then be found very easily by plane trigonometry that the sun rose centrally eclipsed in N. lat. 470 34', and W. long. 3l iL 5 1g that it was centalljy ecGipsed on thie meridian in N. lat. 31' 6', and E. Kr. 59' bl; and set centrally eclipsed in N. lat. I f' E3', ii A. long. 1229 36'. The centre of the moon's shadow crossed the parallel of N. lat. 420 in E. lon1g. 34?0 45'; and the parallel of N. lat. 360 in E. long. so5: and consequently passed nearly in a straight line over the north-eastern part of Asia Minor, through Armenia and Persia, where the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridian, as above-mentioned. This eclipse, therefore, was central and total to part of Asia Minor, Arm enia, and Media: and the path of the moon's umbra lay in tlhe very track where the two hostile armies probably met. For it passed over the very mouth of the Val]ys, t at the point vhere Croesus, the immediate successor of Alyattle, crossed that river in order to attack the Median m p sirne It would appear from the order of events belonging to the reign of Cyaxares, as related by Herodotus, that the battle of d hLi e36 M.r. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse the eclipse happened prior to the invasion of the Scythians" who kept possession of his kingdom twenty-eight years; and that, after the expulsion of those barbarians, he besieged and took the city of Nineveh, an d thereby put an end to the Assyrian empire. This, however, will not accord with the date here assigned: neither indeed will it suit any of the systems above alluded to; except it be that of M. VOLNEY, which flay lay claim to some ingenuity. But his system is too much at variance with the astronomical fact to be entitled to any credit. It has been rem ar1ked by Dr. HALLEY (P il. Trans. Vola XXIX. pid 24 -),that (" though twenty-eight eclipses of the sun happen in eighteen years, and eight pass through the parallel of London, yet since March 2oth, 114o, no total eclipse has been seen in that metropolis." Indeed, so rare is this phenomenon in any particular country, that its occurrence, when well authenticated, may be considered as an era which is less liable to mistakes or confusion, than any other event recorded in history. All attempts at imposition or deceit are easily detected by our knowledge of astronomy: and the unintentional errors of the historian are soon rectified and adjusted. On this account, and as the fact of the eclipse is so confidently related by HERODOTUS (indeed, its singular coincidence with the battle will ever render it memorable in history), I would place the termination of the war between Alyattes and Cyaxares, in the year 6io B. C.: and, if the other events of that period, as related by the Ihistoriag, cannot be reconciled to this date, I should attribute the confusion to the wrant of authentic documents and information at the time tvit the history was written. predicted by THALES 37 I have before observed, that all these cacLlations have beci made fromn the Tables-Astronomiques, laAy published Pn France: which tables have since been adapted to tae erixdian of cnv wich, and to astronomical time, by Mr. Vnc , and insert-ed by him in the third volume of his System of Ast o z iy. In these tables are given the s6cutlar varia 072s ail ther mm ons meai longitude, mean ano maly, and mean distance fcrio her node, as deduced from the formuIl of M. LAPLAC.E. it is vi7th much deference that I presume to question the accracy of the re suIts, obtained by meeads of those formul; X but, as the present subject is in a great ineasure connected with that Pm Vry, I shall briefly state my reasons for offering a doubt upon that point. It is well known teat AGAITOCLES, king of Syrac'use (when besieged ill that city by HAMILCAR, the Carlthaginaian general), undertook the bold design of invading Africa, and thereby mnoving the seat of war from Sicily. He accordijr' ry c1 mbarked a numerous army, and set sail for tile continent. The dqy after -he left Syracuse, the fleet was terrified at an eclipse of, the stun which was so great, that, in the words of DIODORUS. * It is to be regretted, that Mr. Vi N cE did not adapt his tables to the English system of chronology likewise. For the years before Christ, according to the English mode of computation, exceed by unity thi corresponding years given by the Frencb chronologists: since they make the year of Christ equal to o, whereas the English reckon it as I B. C.-_The French also assume the year 1582 as the date of the Refrmation of the Calendar;. whereas, in England, that event ddl not take place till the year 1752. Without a proper attention to these circurnstances, we ray be led i ito an error of one Wh1ole year, in the calculation of the places of the heavenly bodies for any period prior to the Christian era; aind Canto ain error of ten or eleven days in our calculations for that space of time which is ncluded b1twvee October 5t, 3i58z and September 4thb, 1752. e,) r 8 yMr. BAILY 0o the Solar Eclipse SIcuLus, libi 20, OxoOrveW; cPYVilvy VV7r Wgo1 veot4 WY 1e'v ?azray," a it seemed exactly like night, the stars every wihere cc appearing." This eclipse was therefore evidently total in the place -where it was seen by the fleet of AGATHOCLES. It happened on August ,5th, 31o B. C. The ecliptic conjunction took place at 8h 10' 23" in the morning, mean time at Greenwich, or 8h 9' 6" apparent time: and the elements were as follow: True longitude of the luminaries 4g 460 41! 32" Sun's declination, north i6 2 38 semi-diameter 15 57 Moon's semi-diameter 16 39 equatorial parallax 6i o horary motion from the sun 35 9 true latitude 14 42 horary motion in latitude 3 28 From these elements I have foulnd, by a trigonometrical calculation, that the sun rose centrally eclipsed to the inhabit tants of the western coast of Africa, in N. lat. 240 57' and W. long. 140t 9. The centre of the moon's shadow then; crossing the desert, proceeded towards the Mediterranean, near to, but rather to the southwsard of, Tripoli; and crossed the parallel of N. lat. 330 in E. long. 2O0 44'. But in no part of its course did it advance moreonortherly than N. lat. 330 55 36", which I find by a trigonometrical calculation to be its maximum of latitude, and the parallel of which it reached in E. long. 3503 21' 8"r. It then turned to the south ; and the sun became centrally eclipsed on the meridan in N. lat. 3o0l$ and E. long. ,59 45'. pree ichd by THALES. 2 39 Let us now compare this result, with the fact as related by DIODoRUS It is srated by this author, that AGATHOCLES was six days on his passage, from Syracuse to the coast of Africa; although he used the utmost expedition, beil g, in fact, closely pursued by the Carthag inian. fleet. The place where hle landed was called AarofZwd. , the Quarries; whence he proceeded to the ncighbouring c:ies of Me-AWv 6 sv, ealapolis, or the Great City, and Asuxo'v T6VYIXS, WI ite Tunuis. The position of these cities is not banded dowvn to us) all that wve know is, that the latter place ( which must not be confounded wvith the present Tunis) was two thousand stadia, or two hundred and twenty-nine English miles, distant fronm Carthage. AGATHOCLES, therefore, probably landed near the Syrtis Minor, or Gulph of Cabes, about three hundred miles in a direct course from Syracuse: whence we may reasonably conclude that he perfori -ed one-sixth of his passage, or about fifty miles, in the space of one day; which, I ami aware, is not so much as the mean rate that has been attributed to the ships of the ancients (see HERODOTUS, lib. 4, ?. 86). Syracuse lies in N. lat. 370 3' and E. long. 15i 14'; and, consequently, on the day after the sailing of A GATHOCLES from that port (being the day on whicht the eclipse took place), the fleet would be in about N. lat, 361o: at all events, it could not (from the direction of its course) be much farther south than this point, which is all that is required in the present instance; and a few miles, either way, not being of any material consequence. It follows therefore, that in the meridian of Syracuse, the northern part of the moon's umbra ought to extend as far north as that parallel of latitude. But, from the ca lculations above adduced, it A;;1 o Mr. BAILY on the Solar Eclipse will be found that the centre of the moon's shadow, on that meridian, had only reiached the parallel of about N. lat. So, and as the semi-diameter of the umbra was not more than forty-seven and a quarter English statute miles, or about twothirds of a degree, the eclipse could not there be total to the n1orthward of N. 1at. 3,?.O Now, since the place where AGA'A TH OCLES landed in Africa, was probably not situated below the parallel of N. lat. 340, it is evident that he did not, in any part of his course (and much less, at the commencement of it), come within a considerable distance of the moon's umbra. I much doubt whether, according to our present computation, this eclipse was total even at Tripoli: ad, alihough it was unquestionably of considerable magnitude, both there and as far northl as Syracuse itself, yet (for the reasons already given in this paper) I do not think that, a.t any intermediate place between these two cities, it could be so great as to produce that degree of obscurity, which is recorded by DIODORUS and confirmed by JusTIN. In order thaut thiar phenomenon should accord wvith the fact, as related by these historians, the cen tre of the moon's shadow ought to pass over, or very near to, Malta: that is, the latitude of the noon ought to be, at least, three degrees greater than our present tables make it. Since the latitude of the moon depends on her true distance from the node, these observations (if correct) will show the necessity of some alteration in the table of the secular variation of the moon's mean distance frOm her node, which (agreeably to the rule given by M. LAPLACE) is deduced immediately fro m the secular variation of her mean longitude. These remarks, however, are thrown out merely as hints to those who predicted by THALES. 241 are more conversant with, and better informed on, the sub. Ject: and I regret that I have not more time to pursue the inquiry farther. Such an alteration, as is here suggested, would somewhat vary the position of the route of the moon's umbra, in all the eclipses which have been the subject of this paper; but, in none of them would it alter the conclusions which have been drawn from them, except perhaps in the one (Sept. 3oth, 6wo B. C.) which I have supposed to be that mentioned by HERODOTUS. In this particular case, the path of the moon's umbra might, by such a correction, be thrown so much farther north as to prevent the eclipse being total in --any part of Asia Minor. But still it would remain the only one that can be at all adapted to the account given by HERODOTUS; since there is no other that could possibly be central in, or near, any part of Asia Minor from the year 65o B. C. to 580 I. C. : a period which far exceeds the probable limits of time wherein this singular phenomenon must have taken place, so as to be reconcileable to any received system of chronology, .F B. November, i8io. MIDCCCXI e I 