XIX. Observations and Experiments on Vision. Py William Charles Wells, M. D. F, R. S. Read JUlIY 4th, i8ii I. I WAS consulted, in the beginning of the year igog, upon" a disease of vision which, as far as I know, has not hitherto been mentioned by any a-uthor. The subject of -it was a gen tlemnan about thirty five years old, very tall, and incliinhg to be corpulent About a month before I saw him, he had b.enattacked with a catarrhand as this, was leaving bh-i , he wvas seized with a slight stupor, and a feeling of weighlt in his fores head. lie began at the same time to see less distinctly than formerly with his right eye, and to lose the power of ovinSg its upper lid. The pupil of the same eye wvas now also obd served to be much dilated. In a few days, the left eye became similarly aifected with the right, but in a less degree. SuLch was the account of the case, which I received from the patienthimself, and fromn the surgeon who attended him.. The former added that previously to his present ailment his sight: had always been so good, that he had never used glasses oft any kind to improve it. On examining his eyes myself I. could not discover in them any other appearance of disease, than that their pupils-, the right particularly, were much too large, and that their size was little affected by the quantity of light which passed through them. At first, I thought that-; their dilatation was occasioned by a defect of sensibility in the r _ S__ _ T V__ _ _ M _ --, ____ _ 'I Ion utudwhaI section 31'i~etdtlmn tbvug l1?00 0 1 ? 3 4 6 6 8 o~~~~~0 o 22 1 Section. fSckA&km iW t.ep _EN1 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 VIO IOWA ~ ~ I FZArNAI1 "l1 dtha S ect8on eh a A' dro tie to Ca8 Wi 16 17 the Artd. Sectkw f~ c~ekdlkm 8W e p ?fk2 e 2tm d4 17 y 0? aIte Sectzonof Schleha&4 teilpawe o the felidt'aln f de (soath okerpato _________________________ Ale~~~~~~~~Xs. 7ran4W.CCCI.flaVI:.p.vt K 1 K &K;beai'zg rom ~e ilnidzn 16 A16J1( iS i 7 ido e leidv gf U'eSuA&rdor I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nzc lv IJEIaeh1 N & <y LIZ 6 Jr 0 6 / NV i6 T{i a7 hP. MDCC CM. P1aate vICz,. 3 7. 70 E D1. WELLS 8 Observations, &c. 37& retinas; but I was quickly obliged to abandon this opinion, as the patient assured me, that his sensation of light was as strong, -as it had ever been during any former period of his life. I next inquired, whether objects at different distances appeared to him equally distinct. He answered, that he saw distant objects accurately, and in proof told me what the hour was, by a remote Dublic clock; but he added, that the letters of a book seemed to him so confused, that it was with difficulty he could make outt the words which they composed. Hle was now desired to look at a page of a printed book through spectacles with convex glasses. He did so, and, found that he could read it with ease. From these circumstanlces it was very plain, that this gentleman, at the same time that his pupils had become dilated and his upper eye-lids paralytic had acquired the sight of an old man by losing suddenly the command of the muscles, by which the eye is enabled to see near objects distinctly it being known to those, who are cohversant with the facts relating to human vision, that the eye in its relaxed state is fitted for distant objects, and that the seeing of near objects accurately is dependant upon muscular exertion. The disease of which I have spoken: is perhaps not extremely rare. For having related the preceding instance of it to. Mr. WARE, a Fellow of this Society, he was kind enough shortly after to send to me a young woman, who appeared to be likewise affectedwith it. But as I sawv her only once, and hacd not then sufficient time to examine her case mriinutely, I speak with diffidence concerning its nature, II. After I had reflected frequently -upon these cases, it occurred to me, that, as the juice of the herb'B'lladonna, when applied to the eye, occasions the pupil to-dilate considerably, C2 330 l~Dr. WELLS'S Observations and to become unalterable by light, an effect mnight at thle same time be produced by it upon vision, similar to that whicli I have just described. I had, indeed, in tthe course of a few years imrnediately preceding, applied Belladonna several timed to my own eyes, without observing any change iln my sight, beyond what I referred to the increased size of the pupilsbut as I had not looked for any other, I thought it possible, that some additional one mighlt have happened, without my having perceived it. I resolved therefore to make the expels riinent anew. But to conduct it with precision, it was previ ously necessary to knows to what extent I possessed thze faculty of adapting my eyes to different distances. Cn thi, subject I had made many experiments with great care, nearly twenty years before, and had ascertained,* that Wit rny left eye, wh-ich was more perfect tiban the right, I could bring single points on the retina percils of rays, vhich flowed from every distance, greater than that of seven inches from the cornea, In the mean timn, however, my eyes had altered considerably, with respect. to their seeing near objects disc Pinetly, and I hald, in consequence, been obliged, not only to use convex glasses, but to change them several times for others of higher power. No dependance therefore being nowv to be placed in my former experiments, in regardto the present stateof my sight, I repeated them, and found, to m y great surprise, that the power I once possessed of adapting my eyes to different distances was entirely gone; in other words, that I was now obliged to regard all objects, whether near or remote, in the same refractive state of those organs. f round also, that my eyes, considered as mere optical instr-; Essay on Sbigie Vision with two eyes, &ct p. z and Experments on zTisio;X ments, were nearly the same as they had been I'l my youth, and that the convex glasses which I used did vey little more, than supply, with respect to near objects, the place of a living power which It had lost, without compensating, except in a very small degree, for any alteration in the external shape of the eye, or any chan g iln the coifiguration of its interior parts. I ascertained for ihstance, tb at to l've my left eye the refractive power wehich it formerly possessed while ie ls most relaxed state, that by which it was enabled to bring a pencil of parallel rays to a point On ti e retina, a glass of thirty-si. inches focus wvas filly sufficient; whereas to produce an equal effect upon rays proceeding from a point at the distance of seven inoches from my eyes tle other extremity of my ancient range of perfect vision, I was now obliged to employ a glass having a focus of only six inches. I regret much, that I had not made such experiments frequently before, as I think it very probatWe that I should have found a :eriod in the pr;gress of imy vision to its present state, in waich my capacity of seeing distant objects was the samne as in mny youth, and when therefore tine whole of my iP perfect vision of near objects would have been owing to a loss of the muscular powers Cf my eye. As there can be no good reason for supposing, that the changes which have occurred in my eyes are dirent from those, which the eyes of by far the greater number of persons, who are not short-sighted, undergo at the approacth of old age, it is evicent, that the experiments of Dr. YOUNG*on the eye of HANSON, whom the learned author considered as a very fa'r subject for such trials, furnish no proof, that theP A u. TraIIs. i8ox, p. 66. :38X Dr. WELLS'S Observations want of the crystalline lens disables a person from having perfect vision at different distances; for as HANSON WaS Sixty three years old, it is highly probable, that the results of the experiments would have been exactly the same, if he had still possessed that part of his eye. III. IHavinodiscovered that my own eyes were unfit for the exp eriments, which I wished to be made with Belladonna, I instructed an ingenious young physician, Dr. CUTTING, from the island , of Barbadoes, and now residing there, in the manner elsewhere described by me,* of ascertaining his range of perfect vision by means of luminous points. This he found, in consequence, to begin, with respect to his left eye, at the distance of six inches, and not to terminate at the distance of eight feet, beyond which he could not see clearly the object, wvith which lhe had hitherto made his experinmIents, the image of the flame of a candle in the bulb of a small thermometer. The flame of a lamp, distant about sixty yards, gave a faint indication of its rays meeting before they fell upon the retina; the rays from a star had very evidently their focus a little before that membrane. li-e now applied the juice of Belladonna to his left eye. Half an hour after, when his pupil was but little dilated, perfect vision commenced at the distance of seven inches in fifteen minutes more, it began at the distance of three feet and a half. When his pupil had acquired its greatest enlargement, the rays from the image of the flam'e of a candle, in the bulb of a small thermnometer at the distance of eight feet, could not be prevented fromn converging to a point behind the retina. The rays from lamps still more distant, and from stars, had their focuses at the same time on@ Essay on Single Vision, &c. p. X i6. ard Experiments otl I"' ion. 38j the retii a. This sta te of vision conltin d, in its ereatest extentt, to the followvng day; and it as not till the ni nt day after t-he app lication of tne Beltadonna that he comnleteiy recovered the power of ed apting his eye to near objects. While his left eye was thus ah cted, the vision of tae right renained: unaltered.Dr. CUTTIIG rearikedA, while his left eye was returning to i ts nIIural condition, trniat the diminution of the pupil, and the increase of the range of perfect vision, did not keep regular pace with each other; but th at aher his pupil lad I eaarn y returned to its former size his capality of adawpting the eye to, j erent distances was still very liniited. As these effects therefore are riot inseparably connected, they mayoccur in others in a diffierent nianner from that which hie observed. A, great degree of diiatation, for example, mnay take place in the' pupil, without a total waant of the power to adapt tihe eye to diTirent distances. Though I could not doubt theaccuracy of Dr. C'UTTING'S observations, more especially as the altered state of his eye' had lasted a coni iderable time, and as hSe had not been pre vented by other 1 ceupations from attendin i n; tely o appearances, which were consi-sqewnt upon it; y't., as h-ie was the first person who had ever apjM)i.-d 1Bu-ilaionlvna to his eye, for the purpose wb ~hich haS been meI' etioncd, and as thbe resuhs had been remarkable, I requested hliin to rep-seat thle ex periment with his other eye. He compliedl with mly desire, and found, that-the appearances which fullowcd w-ere siniuar to those, which had been produced by the application: of BeiiamdGnma to his left eye. It will, pernaps, be thought extraordinary, that Dr 384b Dr. WELLs's Observations CUTTING'S eye in its relaxed state, before the application of the Belladonna, brought parallel rays to a focus anterior to the retia; but that similar rays met ill a point upon the retina, while the eye was under the full influence of that substance; as it may hence seem, that the Belladonna had done inore than merely suspe1d tlh exercise of the power, by which tie eye is fitted to see near objects distinctly. An observation drawn from the former state of -my own sight will, I expect, mnale tnis matter plain. Whe : I enjoyed the faculty of adapting my eyes to objects at different distances, the rays ofa star, which was viewed vttentively by me, always met in a point a ttitle before the etina ;* wh ecc I at first concluded, that my eye was unfit for accurate vision by parallel rays. But I afterwards found, that if Al loofed at a star carelessly, its rays had then their concourse on the retina. In the former case, from long habit, origin g in nmy having chiiefly viewed near objects with attention, some small exertion was made for the accurate view of a distant object, though none was requisite; in the latter, all demand for exertion ceasing, iny eye fell into the most relaxed condition, that by which it was fitted for parallel rays. Dr. CUTTING'S eye seems to have been similar to what my own once was, in regard to such rays; but as he had not acquired the faculty of viewing a distant object, without making some exertion, the rays from a star crossed one another in his eye before thley came toithe retina. The capacity, however, of making any exertion was takena away by the Belladonna, and pencils of parallel rays-were, in consequence, brought to pohits ipon that membrane.F ssay oil Singlc Vision, &c. P. lo i8 ad Experiments on Vsis. A8 IV. Being now in possession of a new instrumnent, I next attempted to gain, by means of it, some illustration of the changes, which the vision of short-sighted persons und rgoes from agef It has been very generally, if not universally, asserted by systematic, writers upon vision, that the short-sighted are rendereld by ape fitter for se>ig distant objects ti an thcy were in their youth.. But this opiniion appears to me utnfounded in fact, and, to rest altogether upon a false analogy. If those who possess ordinary vsion, wihen young become, from the flatness of the cornea, or other changes in the mere structure of the eye, long-sighted as they approach to old age, it folb 1oWvs, that the short-sighted must, from similar changes, be0 come b tter fitted to see distant objects. SuCh1 a'ppears to havey been their reasoning. But the course pursued by nature seems. very different from that which they have assigned to her.. For of four short-sighted persons of iny acquaintance,, thel ages of whom are between fifty-fotir and sixty years, a~nd inito -the state of whose vision I have inquired particularly, two have not observed that their vision has changed since they vere young, and two have lately become, in respe ct to dis tant objects, more short-sighted than they were formerly. Ar s the manner, in which this change has occurred, is unnoticed, I bclieve, by any preceding author, I sIall here relate the more remarkable of the twvo cases. A gentlemni, who is a Fellow of this Society, became snortsig h wd in early fife, and as hIs profession: obliged hini to at,teAd very much to miniute visible objects, Ihe for .n'any years vvore spectacles with conc.axe alasses. almost constantly, by fle aid of vlhch he saw as distinctly, and at as gre, a va ity MDCCCcX1 D NWSS Dr.WELLS'S Obserations of distances, as those who enjoy the most perfect "vision. At tIe age of fifty, however, he began to observe, that distant obects though viewed through his glasses, appeared indis. tinct, and be was hence ledI to fear, that his eyes w tre affbte d with some disease. But happening one day to take up, in an optician's strop, a single concave glass, and to hold it before one of his eyes, while his spectacles were on, he found to his great joy, that he had regair ld distinct vision of distant objects. With regard to such objects, therefore, he had lately become shorter-sighted than he had formerly been. But along with this change, another occurred of a directly opposite kind. For when he wished to examine a minute object attentively, such as he used to see accurately by means of his spectacles, he now found it necessary to lay them aside, and to employ his naked eye. HIhad become, therefore, in respect to near objects longer-sghted. The power, consequently, in this gentleman, to adapt the eye to dii erent distances, is either totally lost or much diminished; but the point, or small space to which his perfect vision is now confined, instead of being the most remote to which he could formerly accommodate his eyes, as is commonly the case with the ordinarily sighted when they are becoming old, is now placed between the two extremes of his former range of accurate vision. The eyes of the other short-sighted person, a physician of considerable learning, whose vision has been altered by age, have been affected in a similar manner, but not in so great a degree. As the only change, which had oCcurred from age in the sight of such of my acquaintance as were considerably myopic was a lessening, on both sides, of their range of perfect vision, I conceived that this might be the ordinary procedure of and Experiments on Vis "7 atire in su c ea , and that it might be imitated in a young sihort-sigh ted person, by the application of Belladonnua to his eyes. 1 hae hitherto not been able to obtain permisnioil to na k1e the cxpierimient on any youi1b person, who is vershort &ig'ited. Two gentlemene however, who are soinevwhat shortsighted, have rea dly sntonitted to it; onle of thein, Mr. BLUJNDELL, a diligent and ingenious student, of medicine m the other, Mr. PATRi1K, a well educated young surgeon in London. The first experiment was On Mr.1 BLUNDELL, and the pp arent result wxas, that t e range of his acc rate vibion was Ons iderably dirini shed at both ends, but not annihiated. Mr. BLUNDELL, however, aft erwards inoriend me, that vle repeated the experinrnt with 'ore care ci;}t the country, and f(nodd that 0 o1'e eye the nearest point of perfe.ct vision was muoved frward about txvwothirds of the whole range, and in the, other about one-third; but that, with respect to both eyts, the nost reinote points -of tie ran ges were unchanged. I-e added, that while one eye xwas under the influence of the Beiladonnxa, the ot0er became siorier-sighted than it had been before; but thedifference wsx not so great, as to induce ne tin peace ecitire confidence in the just iess of his observation, I th-ulk it rigl"t to Mention here, that from mt nistake I applie'd only twothirds of the ordinary quantity of Belladonna to his eye, in toe irst experiment; and that he proba' y in consequence of my example, applied no more when he inade the :eccnd as tihis mnight Ieave been the reasotn, that during bt.th xiW pet:s hle retained, iin part, the capacity of adpting his eyes to diretit distances, The experiment on Mr. PATRICK was conducted3 by myseif aft1 cie hadu' bVon fr'quently excrcised inh obs vinDte Atent 5 . 38S8 Dr. WELLS'S Observations of his perfect vision. The results were similar to those whichhad been rernarked by Dr. CUTTING. The power of altering the adaptation of his eye, according to the distance of the obh Jects viewed, was for some titne entirely lost, and his sight became accurately fitted for such only, as were placed at the farther extremity of his former range of perfect vision. While ,one eye was under the influence of the Belladonna, the vision of the other was unaffected. From these experiments it seems probable, that Belladonna -will in no case produce the same effect upon a young shortsigted persoL , that age has produced in the two instances of which I have spoken. I expect, however, to have an opportty of repeating the experiment on twvo persons, who are Yery considerably short-sighted, and I shall take the Iiberty of comn mnicating tie result to the Royal Society, together with soine observ'ations I have already made, and others which I-hope to make, respecting those persons, who seem to retain to extr^e ie old age the power of seeing perfectly, as far as the accommodatiug power of tihe eye is concerned, both distant and near objects; and of others, who, after being without this power for "Many years, appear to regain it at a similar period of life. Probably the making Iknown my intention may facilitate its accomplishment, by inducing other Feilows of the Society to furnish m e withi opportunities of increasing my know*ledce of these subjects. In the meani time, I shall o fer a few words upon two -oter topics in vision, which seem to du rive iFlustratin from my ex erimennts with Belladonna. V. 1 a Not only do th Ip'is move t gcetlher, when bothn eyes are in a health.y state, but the pupil of one eye af~ictkA with gutta serena inuves with the pupil of the other, as loeig as this and Exper'imnents on Viszion. 389 remains sound. These facts are generally, but in my opinion erroneously, attributed to an immediate sympathy between the pupils. For when the pupil of one eye becomes dilated fom the application of Belladonna, the pupil of the other, so fia from dilating, becomes smaller. It follows, therefore, that -the size of the pupil is dependant, not only on the impression of light onl thie retina of its ow n eye, but on that also which is miade on the retina of the other, and that the moving of the two together wfhich for the most part takes place, is only an ncckdent"-. consequence of the fact which I have mentioned. 2. AS the act0on of the external muscles of the eye has been 1ri. c gqenty resorted to, for an epimanation of its capacity tosee objects perfec.-Ty at difT crent distal ces, I requested Dr, CUTTING to attcc" o tohi matter. I-e accordingly ascertained, wh1:ie his eye was in its natural state, the distance from his a-1I of the nearest poi'lt,, at which he could mnake the two optic aCres Imect this being the greatest trial of strength, to w, hich tUose muscles can be exposed. Shortly after, he repeated the experiments., while, in consequence of the applica.. tion of Belladonna, he was without the power of adapting his eye to different distances, and found, that the strength of those muscles was not diminished. It follows, therefore, not -only that the external muscles have little or no conccrns in fitting the eye to see distinctly at different distances, but that the sa ne is true with respect to the cornea, as we cannot sup. pose, that its mechanical properties were altered by the Belladonna, or at least, that it became more inflexible from the application to it of the juice of that herb. I had before nade a similar experiment on y1self, by ycom paring Nat had been the strength of the external Tuscls of 1mJy Cyew -.7ttrety years 3903 .Dr. WELLS'SObs ration acor0, with what it was after I had lost the power of alte r119 t'heir retractive state; but though I olound no difference, yet, as their coats might have in the mean timxie beco-nr more rigid, I thought it right to have th' exp riment repeated, in a manner to w 7hiChl no objection could be taken. The only other part of the eye, or its appendag es, xwhich remains for enabling us to see equally veIl at very dif ere nt d tances, is the crystalline; and that it does produce this efect, either ;wholly, or very nearly so, is manie'st , fom the necessity even younc per sons are under, who have lost it, of u s s 0 very die etcoveIts for near and remote uxg glasstes of ve iferent conlvexities re3atdeme objects. Bu3t in what way this im )ortant office is performed by it seems still unkinown. The learned Dr. YOUNG, indeed, as well as others before him, has supposed, that the crystalline has the power of altering its figure; but the proofs hitherto given in favour of tibis opinion appear very dIefective. In 1794, 1 attempted to submit its justness to the te,-t of direct experimnents, by applyinor to the cry stallines of oxen, which had been felled from thirty seconds to a minute before, chemical atnd mechanical stitnuli, and those of Galvanism and electricity ; but in no instance was any alteration of fi r ure, or other indication of muscular power, observed. All of thvess stimuli were applied to the crystalline while it was surroni ded brair, and somte of them vwhile it was covered wi'tb wai n vweater, Last sutnmer, after I knew that me v lose, irom increase of y ars, thle faculty &f alih2c'intr c r'efractive state of the eye., I thougiht it p0osIbm.3 thcat the ox en on whi ch I had maIe the exp eriielts were too old for theni I therefore repeav-d !ns6 of taleni on the crysialines of a caJ'f and a iamb ' butE;say oAn Single Vision, &c. p. 136. and Experiments on Tision., , still no nmotion was to be seen. Dr. You G hlao made similar experiments with a similar event; but he thinks that no argue ment can hence be derived against his opIinion, as neither can motion be excited in the uvea, by any artificial stimulus. In the first place, however, it is not agreeable () just reasoning to regard an unknown thing as an exception to a general rule, rather than as an example of ;t ; in tAc second, he motions of the uvea are involuntary, whereas the adaptation of the eye is n part at least, under the commnand of the will; and in the third, t e crystalline seems very unfit for performing the motions which he assigns to it; for if its figure be altered out of the body, by external force, it does not restore itself, but retains the shape which has been given to it, like a piece of dough, or soft clay. Possibly further experiments wixth Bel ladonna may contribute to remove thoe obscxuity, whaich at present surrounds this subject. 