294 2 XVI, Observations and Experiments on Pus. By George Pearson, M.-D. F. R. S. Read July,5th, i'8io. CHIIEMICAL writers vary in their statements of the properties of pus ; and they consider that a further investigation is requisite for the purposes of science. Physicians confess that, in numerous cases, they cannot form a satisfactory judgment of the nature of diseases, on account of not being able to determine what is, and what is not purulent matter; likewise probably, on account of the existence of diffierent kinds, or Alarieties, at least, ofthis substance, afforded by different disorders. I beg leave, therefore, to submit to this learned Society, my own observations, experiments, and reasoning on this animal matter. SECTION 1. Simple, and obvious Properties. The different kinds of fluid, commonly considered to be pus, may be distinguished by the following titles I. The cream-like and equally consistent. II The curdy and unequal in consistence. III. The serous and thin kind. IV. The thick, viscid or slimy. I. A pint of the first sort was taken out of the pericardium, after a fatal inflammation of the heart, in St. George's Hos. pital, and obligingly sent to me by my colleague, Dr. E. NM BANCROroT Dr. PEARSON'S Observations, &cv t95 The colour was yellowish-the smzell was fleshy when warmed-it was smooth and unctuous to the touch. 2. The specific gravity of two different portions, was as i6so and 163j, that of distilled water being 58o ; each substance being of the same temperature. Serum-of the blood of different patients, was found at the same time to be 1626, 1627, and 163o. Accordingly, the distilled water being iooo, the pus is 1031, and 1033 ; and the serum is 1029, and 1031. S. After 12 hours repose, about two ounces by measure of a limpid fluid having appeared on the top, it was decantedfrom off the opaque purulent fluid; which was become thinner in the upper part of the vessel containing it, and thicker in the lower than before. 4. On further repose, it did not become offensive 'so soon as a portion of the same pus mixed with a little blood, nor as serum alone. i. This pus neither indicated acidity nor alkalescency to the usual tests, viz. turnsole paper, tincture -of red cabbage, Brazil-wood paper, and turmeric paper. I have, in other instances sometimes, observed acidity to :be indicated by turnsole paper; but in none alkalescency, so long as the matter remained without foetor. 6. Being Iexamined under the microscope, when duly diluted with distilled water, innumerable spherical particles were seen, which did not appear altered in figure, nor diminish in number by extreme dilution; that 'is, they did not appear to have been dissolved. II. A pint of pus of the second kind, viz, curdy, was afforded by a psoas abscess. The colour was brown. It felt knotty, On pouring fromt Qq 2 X.96 Dr. PEARSON'S Obsemations one vessel to another, the curdy masses were manifest, and of various sizes, from that of a pin's head to a ha-zel nut. It was more viscid than the former, and of a little greater spew cific gravity. On standing, a limpid fluid appeared upon the top, as in the first kind, but i a salvler quantity. Globules vere seen with the microscope, but also a number of irred gularly figured larger mrnases. Putrefaction took place sooner than in the former kind. In other pproperties, this pus was Similar to the first kind. III. Serou S hin pit.. It Was produced by a fatal inflamnmation of the peritoneal coat, without ulcer, and taken out of the cavity of the abdomen. A good deal of serum was also effused, of which the pus was a deposit. It was not much thicker than milk. To the feeling it was not at all unctuous. The smell was slightly offensive. On standing 24 hours a sediment appeared, occupying only one half the full vessel, under a whney-like liquid. Putrefaction took place sooner than in either of the two former kinds. The specific gravity was the same as that of the first sort. In other properties it was similar to the cream-like pus above distinguished. IV A pint of the viscid puls was obtained from an abscess among the muscles of the thigh. If I had not had entire confidence in Mr. BRODIE's accuracy, who was so obliging as to attend to my request, on this and many other like occasions, I should have supposed, that this was expectorated matter, it so exactly resembled in its simple properties, the ropy kind, described in a paper on expectorated matter. Phil. Trans, 1809, P. IL. p. 317. The appearance was not quite uniform, there being semitransparent masses in small proportion-, mixed with the and Experiments upon Pus. 297 perfectly opaque white matter. It was almost inodorous. To the touch it was quite smooth. 'The specific gravity was nearly that of the second kind of pus. On standing 24 hours, about one ounce measure of. limpid fluid rose to the top of the whole mass. Putrefaction did not take place so soon as in expectorated matter of the same consistence. The examination by the microscope manifested innumerable spherical particles among leafy masses, and numerous particles of irregular forms. The simuplk2 properties were otherwise similarto those of the other sorts of pus, above distitiguished. Many other differences of purulent matter are universally recognized; but they are either varieties of the four kinds already named, or the differences depend upon the obvious mixture with advettittiuus substances ; such as the redpart of the blood, coagulated lymph-, serum, putrefied matter, tibrous and membran-us imasses, calculi, &c.: therefore, I deem it useless to describe therm. SECT. II. Agency of Calonrc. i. The above kinds of pus coagulated like serum of blood, into a firm, uniform, soft solid, at the temperature of i6 completely; but partially at 16o0 of FAHRENHEIT'S thermomneter. 2. The decanted limpid fluid from pus, Sect. I.-I. II. HII IV. coagulated completely into a firm uniform mass, like serum of bkcod, at 16,5, but it became opaque and thickened at loo. By pressure of the firm curd thus produced, a waccry liquid was separated, which on due evaporation did not give a jeiay, but was coagulabie like the decanted liquid just mentioned. IiGus Dr. PEARSON'S Observtzons The thick opaque matter, after decanting the limpid fluids coagulated as before said, into a firm mass at i650. g. Each of the above four kinds of pus being evaporated to d'ryness, left in no case less than one tenth of its original weight, nor more than one sixth; but most frequently one seventh, to one eighth of brittle matter. The smallest pro. portion of residue was left by the 3d, or serous kind; the largest,, by the 2d or curdy. These residues generally became rather soft, especially those of the 3d, or the serous kind, after exposure to the air. 4. The opaque part of pus after separating the limpid fluid afforded on evaporation about A to ' more of brittle residue, than-an equal weight of the pus itself ; and it remained hard on exposure to the air. The limpid fluid evaporated to dryness yielded about one tenth of brittle residue; which grew moist, and sometimes deliquesced, on exposure to the air. A. The brittle residues above mentioned (3), being exposed to fire in platina crucibles, flamed for some time, emitting a very offensive, pungent, empyreumatic smell the unint flammable residue being kept in a state of ignition for a longer period, what remained at length was fused readily from the serous, viz. the third kind of pus; but in the cases of the other exsiccated residues of the ist, 2d, and 4th kinds of pus, they barely were melted, or only became soft and claggy. The fused residues from the serous pus, amounted to to i Of the exsiCcated pus ; and to to Am of the original purulent matter. Those from the second kind, the curdy, amounted to 51I to , of the dried matter, and to 3 to a of the pus itself. The fused masses from the ist and 4th kinds of purulert matter, afforded intermediate quantities of melled matter between those just mentioned. and Experiments upon Pus 2Ar . The fused residues (5), being treated in the manner den scribed in a former paper, Phil. Trans. 18og, P.IL. p. 326-329, I found they consisted chiefly of muriate of soda, phosph ate of lime, and potash with strong indications of carbonate of lime, and a sulphate ; besides traces of phosphate of magnesia, oxide of iron, and vitrifiable matter, probably silica. GA a reasonable calculation, it appeared, that in the serous kind of pus, the muriate of soda amounts to from one and a half, to two per ioo o; the phosphate of lime to one, to one and a half per iooo, the potash to one half, to three fourths of a part in lthis quantity; and the other matters together, to half a part in woo. In the curdy matter, the second kind, the muriate of soda amounts to three fourths of a part, to one in a looo; the phosphate of lime to one; the potash to less than one half; and the other matters united, to half a part in a inooo, The first kind of pus, the cream-like, and the fourth, the viscid, afforded from the melted residue, the same substances as the serous kind, excepting a somewhat smaller proportion of MIrriate of soda, and potash. 7. The brittle residues of evaporated pus, after decanting the limpid fluid (4), being treated with fire as above related, the remaining matters were melted with more difficulty, and less completely, and contained a smaller proportion of muriate ,of soda and potash than the original pus. 8. The decanted limpid fluids (4), bk ing evaporated to dry.. ness, these residues were exposed to fire. They werea melted and theen afforded a larger proportion of niuriate of soda and of potash, than the pus itself; but with tae same proportioai of the other Saline and earthy substancesl 300 Dr. PEARSON'S Observations SECT. III. Agency of Water. i. After detanting the limpid fluid from off half a pint of the four kinds of pus as above related, (Sect. I.) three ounces measure of distilled water were mixed with each of them. After 48 hours repose, a limpid fluid of nearly the quantity of two ounces by measure, was seen forming an upper stratum to the pus. It was decanted for examination. (a') On exposure to fire it became turbid like milk, as soon as the tei perature was elevated to 16,5, but did not become thicker at a greater elevation. (b) On evaporation to dryness, the residue amounted to about one fifteenth of the weight of the liquid from the serous pus, and to one twentieth from the three other kinds,; in place of about one tenth, as from the first decanted liquid, (Sect. I. 4) ; and as from serum of blood. The, residuary matters were of the same kind as those above described, Sect. II. 29-6. (c) Three ounces measure of distilled' water having been again mixed with each of the four kinds of pus, and in 48 hours, two ounces measure of decanted limpid fluid from each, having been evaporated to dryness, residues of the same kind, in the same proportions, and in nearly the same quantities as before, were obtained (b). These decanted fluids became nearly as turbid as the former on raising their -temperature to 16,5. (d) Distilled water was added a third time in the quantity of eight ounces by measure, to each of the four parcels of pus under examination, and after 48 hours repose, six ounces of limpid fluid were poured off from each of them. At the tem.. perature of 16,5, the decanted fluids became turbid; that of the serous pus more so than the others. On evaporation to dryness, and 1k pE;ii7Mens on Pus. So l mua nch si aller quantity of residue Was obtained than before, viz. one sixtieth from the serous pus, and one seventieth from the others ; and it consisted of the same kind of substances as above. described ; but the muriate of soda and potash were in snaller proportion than before. (e) A fourth time distilled water in the quantity of a pint, was mixed with the present four parcels of pus, and after standing 48 hours, three fourths of a pint of clear colourless liquid was poured off from each of them. It became slightly turbid and whitish on boiling. On evaporation, each parcel aforded about " of the fluid employed. The residues now consisted of animal matter, with a much smaller proportion than before of muriate of soda, phosphate of lime, and potash-nothing else could now be traced. (f ) Distilled water in the quantity of a pint, was once more -mixed with the four sorts of purulent matter undergoing inquiry. After 48 hours, a pint of liquid was decanted from ofeach of them ; but being slightly turbid, they were left to stand 24 hours. By this time a sediment was deposited from each of the liquors; but being still, though very slightly, turbid, they were filtrated through suitable paper. They were then transparent. The transparent filtrated liquors had their transparency disturbed by a boiling temperature. They became also slightly milky, with nitrate of silver, but scarcely so with infusion of gall nut. On evaporation to the quantity of an ounce from each pint, the residuary liquids appeared slightly globular. These, on evaporation to dryness, yielded not more than one part of animal matter, from each 5oo of the transparent filtrated liquids. (g) On standing three or four days in a cold room, the MDCcCx. PR Si, BDr. PEALRON ObservatiZos parcels of pus, after the ablutions just related (a-f), exhibited a whey coloured liquor at the top, of which about 4 of a pint was pourcd off from them. More turbid, iiqvuor was ciso sep arated from the washed pus, by p1oul:rigr i upon a porous cotton cloth strainer, which left purulent rnattera$ the CoA csiA of starci mucilage, amounting to about onie Nl'..If the original veight. (h) The pus freed fromn coagulable IcVpid liquidby repeated ablutions (a~h) was vlite as snox-equal in consistence -perfectly smooth-the 4th kind was less viscid tha n before, but the others were more so-no smell-not at all disposed to putrefy-on elevating its temperature to i6,0 and higher, it did not coagulate into one mass, nor into clots, or large, masses of curd, but a watery fluid separated from a fine soft sorewhat curd-like ov que fluid; which did not become mnore curdy, on even boii 1 -it did not appear that above a grain of this part, or state of pus, dissolved in iooo waterswuas highly globula'r under the microscope, and remained so, althotgh coagulated by nitrate of silver; by infusion of gall nut; by alcohol; and super-tsulpate of alumina-with, muriate of ammonia, nitrate of potasn, and other neuitral salts, and with carbonate of potasL, it procuced a vIscid semitr-t sparent mass like expectorated haif transpcarent nitt -e vopos ed t o "re in P olatina cruci~bl-, 'it Was inlanif ed but did not emrt an offensive smell, and after continuing the igition, .he ridue was a particle of half fubsed L atter, not annnting 5_ -of Ure mpus after albltwii, no.r at ove -o o" tYe sare inatterZ exiccatcd; it con sis ted of phosphate of ilme and vitrYRLed nnatter-no amrmonia was perceivable, on xl. hug line vith this washed pus; nor muri-atic acid on adding sulphuric acid. uJ, (a) A tea spoonf l of t Etc umm-like pits, beig agitated in and erip<ents o;A Pis. half a pint of distilled water, produced a milky 3l id, with a number of small curdy particles suspended, but very feIeafy or fibrous pieces or clots. (b) The seous pus beitg treated as just mentioned (a), tie same appearances ensued, (c) The curdy pus being agitated in the same manner in water, a number of clots, leafy, and fibrous masses, were seen suspended among fine small curdy particles in a pearly liquids (d) The viscid pus being treated as just said, it required lonic continued, and violent agitation, to diffuse it throubh the water, and then the appearances were as last described. ,. Pus of any kind, after boiling in twenty times its quan. tity of water, was quite as globular under the microscope as previously* With a smaller proportion of water, the mixture became very turbid, sometimes clots were formed in a pearl liquid, in which a fine sediment took place, whiclh appeared much more globular than the clots or curdy masses. 4. In general, water in which pus has been agitated, remains somewlhat nmilky, with an abundant close white sedi nent; but after two, or three, or more ablutions, the water becomes clear on standing, and the sediment more curdy, SECT. IV. Agenc of Alcohol of Wine. The different kinds of exsiccated pus exposed to the agency oft his menstruum, and treated as described in a former paper, Phil. T'ranst . og1 , 1. II. p. 329, the results were similar, except in the proportion of products. i. These exsiccated substances afTorded to this menstruui a siiiller proportion of potasi, but as much animal oxide and uriate of soda, as mucous sputumt R. r 8o4 Dr. PEARSON'S Observations S. The undissolved matter left after repeated dig-estions in this menstruum, afforded the same substances, but in smaller proportions, as mucous sputum. S. Equal bulks of fresh pus, and rectified spirit of wine, afford a much thicker and more milky liquor, with a closer sediment than expectorated mucous matter. SECT. V. Agency of acetous Acid. The purulent matters mixed with this acid became curd'y, and rendered it milky; but on standing, a close white sediment appeared, the liquid above being clear, except in the case of the viscid pus, which -exhibited leafy and fibrous masses, as hath been described with mucous sputum. By repeated digestion of the different kinds of pus in this menstruum, I obtained the same results, except the proportions of acetite of potash, and muriate of soda being smaller, as related in a former paper on mucous expectorated matter. Phil. Trans. 1809, P. II. p. 336. SECT. VI.-Some Experiments with dffferent Objects, especially to distinguish Pus and Mucus. a. In the agency of sulphuric, nitric, and rmuriatic acids, in sufficient quantity to dissolve and decompound the substances under inquiry, I could perceive no important difference betweenr them. The purulent matters indeed, required a much greater proportion to completely dissolve them, than the transparent sputum. Also the more opaque and dense the sputum, the greater the resistance to dissolution. Sulphuric acid produced black liquids like those containing charcoal, smelling strongly of muriatic acid, but on dilution with water, they became clearNo precipitation occurred on dilution with water, and oil and Experiments on Pus. 9g5 saturation with the fixed alkalies, but a trifling sediment appeared, which redissolved on the addition of the above aci -,s. 2. The mineral acids diluted, or added in small proportion, and the vegetable acids, coagulate variously pus and mucous fluids. So me become merely milky fluids, others curdy fluids, others afford fibrous and leafy masses in a transparent liquor, and others give an uniform thick mass of curd. On standing thre deposits are accordingly of various forms, and the liquors above on various appearances, but I could discover no constant characteristic property of the substances by these experiments, as somre writers have asserted. , ThIe solid fixed alkalies, or lime, mixed wvith expectorated mucus, occa sion a stronger smell of ammonia than with pus; or than with muco-.puruient sputum.. Some use may be perhaps made of this easy experiment to judge of the nature of varieties of the fluids in question, particularly as far as depends on the proportion of amnmonia: for sometimes it cannot be perceived by the smell on mixing alkalies, but can by muriatic acid giving white vapours. Concentrated liquid alkalies, added to both pus and mucus, dissolve them to produce clear liquids, except small curdy parts and. motes. These curdy parts and motes resist dissolution also for some time even in nitric acid, and seem to be self-coagulated lymph. They are in much greater proportion in puS than mucus. The addition of acids to these alkaline dissolutions, occasions precipitations, but no differ rences, or not with sufficient uniformity to affbrd criteria, were observed accordng to the observations of otherExp:rimnenters. 4. Concentrat ed aqueous solutions of various neutral salts, viz. muriate of ammonia; nitrate of potalh; muriate of soda,; 108 Dr. PEARSON'S Observations particles visible only by the microscope in this opaque oxide, and in small number in the limpid fluid; not coagulable by any temperature to which hitherto exposed, and not destructible by many things which combine or destroy the opaque oxide; and these globules are specifically heavier than water.* 2. That the visible curdy masses, as well as the fibrous or leafy parts, almost always contained in smaller or larger quantities in pus, may be considered as self-coagulated lymph, which in its fluid state is secreted without having the state of aggregation produced in it like that of the essential opaqueoxide of pus.-Sect. VII i. A. That the reddish, the blackish, and the dark brown izolour of pus depends upon the red part of the blood effused or secreted from the same vessels, or from contiguous ones which secrete puss V. That on some occasions the dotty and irregularly figured masses found in the pus, ay depend upon disorganization or breach of the contiguous solid parts. A. That whenever pus is foetid to the smell, a portion of it is in the state of putrefactive fermentation, which may be removed by ablutions with water. 6. That there are certain adventitious matters liable to be contained in pus not hitherto rendered palpable to the senses, but known by their effects in exciting contagious diseases; such as small-pox, syphilis, &c. These matters are produced by a specific action in the secretory organs of pus, by such * My obligingly attentive pupils, Mr. BURTON, and Mr. STANSFEL,, house-surgeons of the Lock hospital, collected for me a sufficient quantity of gonorrheal matte; to determine that it consisted of the three ingredients here stated. and Experir ents on P.s. q307 the squtsAre pieces being removed, were found wet -with a Ernpid fluid. In this state they were inspected by the micro scope, by whiclh numerous globules were seen. In ten minutes furtai r the liquid wras no longer limpid but opaque like pus, in whch the usual sph erical particIes were see n with the micirocope as just mentioned. Supposing objections might be offered on account of the alterationz of texture of the skin employed, square pieces of gl ss wore also applied. The results were the same in both trials. The twvo gentlemen above named, as well as Dr. RICHARD HA-RISON, and other pupils, who happened to be present, all concurred in the observation, that the limpid matter became opaque, and that while limpid. it was, like pus, fuPl of spheriCal particles. SECT. Vie. ?1owl Si nS. The statem ent of the properties of pus isn the foregoing inquiry I hope will be found to be true; and I submit to the judgment of ot. ors whether or no the follo'ing inferences are gtim a 4ely ostablished. 1. Th at this fluid essentilly consists of three distinct substances viz. i. An animal oxide, whik1h, amoong other propert es, lS distinguished by Its boing white, opaque, smuoczth, of the. fbrin of fine curdy patrticles i wvater ; not dissoluble in less t an ioo coAd waters nwt coagulable into one mass like sertum of b1ood by caloric, alcohol, &c.; only rendered -more curdy by water of i6oo to 170; but readily diffusible.-2. A limpid fluid resemblihb,. se 11J of blood in its impregnations anld in its cI;ulaiTiity o; cby iic, alcohol, &c.; in which tha opaque ox,6id Is ditilsble Lut not 'Dssolible, and which is specificall 1ii.j t than tah a e,3. Inunumerable spherical mos ~Dr. PEARSON S Observations particles visible only by the microscope in this opaque oxide, and in small number in the limpid fluid; not coagulable by any temperature to whichbhitherto exposed, and not destructible by many things which combine or destroy the opaque oxide ; and these globules are specifically heavier than water.* 2. That the visible curdy masses, as vell as the fibrous or leafy parts, almost always contained in smaller or larger quantities in pus, may be considered as self-coagulated lymph, which in its fluid state is secreted without having the state of aggregation produced in it like that of the essestial opaqueoxide of pus.-Sect. VII. i. 9.That the reddish, the blackish, and the dark brown colour of pus depends upon the red part of the blood effused or secreted from the same vessels, or from contiguous ones which secrete pus. 4. That on some occasions the dotty and irregularly figured masses found in the pus. may depend upon disorganization or breach of the contiguous solid parts. 5. That whenever pus is foetid to the smell, a portion of it is in the state of putrefactive fermentation, which may be removed by ablutions with water. 6. That there are certain adventitious matters liable to be contained in pus not hitherto rendered palpable to the senses, but known by their effects in exciting contagious diseases,; such as small-pox, syphilis, &c. These matters ;are produced by a specific action in the secretory organs of pus, by such * My obligingly attentive pupils, Mr. BURTON, and Mr. STANSFELD, house-sur. 'eons of the Lock hospital, collected for me a sufficient quantity of gosorrheal matte; to determine that it consisted of the three ingredients here stated. al"I d Exp s. o PXus. s0 imatters tiemselves either containted 'in the circulatiig blood, or on the secreting 'i urce. 7. That the essen' 'alsubstancs of cwh?h pus consists, as well as so.ne of the adventitious ones 'Sect. VIL i, 2) 3,6), are separated from the blood by a peculiar organization belonging, or attached to the bl'od-vessels: v whi lh organs of separation or secretion are not only excited to thaction which produces pus iti diseased states, but they are evidently influenced by the states of other distant organs of the animal oeconomy hence matny varieties in the properties of the purulent matter. 8. That the varieties of purulvnt matter relate to differences of q'tantty-ithe proportion of the essential substances (i )and the adventitious part (2, 3, 4, 5, 6). The cream-like pus consisting of almost purely the opaque oxide and limpid liquid (I. 1, ). The curdy containing a large propordtion of coagrulated lymph, or broken down solids. T'e serous abounding in liipid fluid. The viscid depending upon the Coagulation, and perhaps, inspissat-on, by union of neutral salts with the opaque oxide. 9. That as the essential parts are secreted in a limipid state, but presently become opaque, owing to a large proportion spontaneously coag-ulatng, and thus becoming the opaque oxide, mixed with the serous liquid, and innumerable splherical particles (Sect. VII. 1. i, 2, 1), it seems reasonable to infer that these matters are the self-coagulated lymph of the blood, and Serum, separated by the secretory organs; which act of secretion determines the subsequent state of ag.Tgregation of pus, and the globules are at the same time formed analogous 'y to th-ir formation by other secretory organs. How far they 'are 3Ss 310 Dr. PEARSON'S Observat"IS those of the blood altered by secretln r bId-4'armined hereafter. It is -a collateral prXo nis, n! ct)rz,!,ry e. tit very thick pus affords one sixth to one o; -` e i 'e: a--d brittle residue, which, as I have foundL j,, ntriy Xi-liw sa ne proportion afforded on the exsicc-X1 ion of the bu yc tfn 1drn d hi d while very thin pus a-or.s on exsic ation one heghtf;1d to OUte eleventh of brittle residu W.1,ich i he proportion tti) be expected from a mixture of serum of Wood and self-coaGuLated lymnph,as I have ascertained. 10. That the constant impregnating saline a id earthy ingredients of pus, are dissolved in the serous flu,.id, and are all separable along with the serumn, by ablutions xwith water, from the opaque oxide (i), except a portion of the phosphate of lime. These impregnations are the same as those of serum of blood, and of expectorated mucous matter, viz. muriate of soda ; potash neutralized by animal matter or a destructible acid: phosphate of limee; ammonia neutralized probably by phosphoric acid ; with a sulphate and traces of someother matters mentioned in my former paper. The proportion of these -impregnating substances is as the proportion of litnpid or serous coagulable fluid, and of course inversely as the proportion of the opaque oxide of pus,; but it varies in diffebF rent cases in given proportions of this oxide, and the limpid fluid. In general, if not always, a given quantity of pts containt a smaller proportion of saline matters than an equal given quantity of expectorated mucous matter, but a given quantity Pf the limpid coagulable fluid contains a greater proportion of saline matters than an equal given quantity of serum of blood, Hence the thicker the pus the less irritation to the sore which, ,fcretes it, and commonly the less the inflammatory or other and Experiments on Pis. action of the secreting surface. In different cases, however, the proportion of impregnating saline substances to one another is liable to vary, especially that of phosphate of lime hence, though rarely, calculi occur of this substance in the cavity of the abscess.* hence too the exsiccated pus is liable to become soft and. moist, from the proportion of neutralized potash being greater than usual and even deliquescence sometimes occurs of the exsiccated limpid fluid. 12. That the same organs, according to their different states, secrete from the blood merely water impregnated with the saline substances of the serum of blood; also this fluid containing various proportions of coagulable matter like that of serum of blood and serous fluid with self-coagulable lymph, which affords curdy masses: likewise this serous fluid, together with this matter which coagulates of itself after secretion, highly impregnated with invisibly small particles, in such a state of aggregation, as to constitute the thick opaque fluid called pus-which states of the secretory organs are generally attended with inflammatory action, but frequently also without any symptoms of such action. 13. That besides the consistence of pus depending upon the proportion of serous limpid liquid, and opaque matter, it also probably depends upon the mode and state of coagulation of the matter which affords this opaque part; analogously to the diffierent states of consistence of the coagulated blood On examininng the lungs of a patient wvho died of pulmonary consumption, con. cretions were found in a large vornica from the size of mustard seed to a pepper corn, which Dr. E. N. BAN CROFT reserved for my enquiry. I found Ihey consisted chiefly of phosphate of lime with an unusually small proportion of animal matter. In another patient of Dr. NEvI NSON, matter was coughed tip, consisting chiefly of phosphate of lime and animal matter, nearly one of the former to three of the latter. Ss 2 Dr. PEARSON'S Observatio' itself, accarding to the dif'erent con ditions of the aninat ceconorny. According to the above, inferen-es, I trust, a distinct anc definite notion of the substance to be considered as pus i exhibited; and' I do not comment on the dilfrcnt results of x-neriments and conclusios of other writers, because future observers only can dcet-etrnie the truth. What is and what is not pus wvii n ow readily be asccrtained byv a few easy experiments by the obvious properftis; and by the consideration Q'f the source of the matter in question: provided, 1hoxveverthat it be unmixed with certain othher m'atters by which disguise is prvducedi A. s already o'bservedz it is iii pulmon-ic diseases that t'ie a?mbiguity occurs and phlysicians lay very considerable stress upon the nature of expectorated. matter in their practice and reasoning; I shall therefore endeavourr to elucidate the subject by remarks I n the puriform matter expectorated L-. different cases. i. An abscess occasioned by ac uteL inflanmmation not only of a pleurisy, and peripneumon ,y but of other diseases which have not the symptoms of any one which I as rec-eived a deSignation. Here there ouglt to be no doubt; for the matter which is coughed up suddenly and abundantly on tle bursting of the abscess is evidently pus with little mucuis. Such matter consists of the essential ingredients of pus, (Sect. VII i,) with generally the adventitious substances, (Sect. VII. 2, 3, 4,) viLzcoa ulateci lymph, membranous or fibrous parts, and a small proportion of the red part of blood.. 2. Purulent expectoration from the rupture of abscesses, or vomicze of suppurated tubercles. In such cases there has beena chronical cough with viscid sputum, commonly in, persons, 0f and Experiments on Pus. IS' a advanced age. After this long continued disease, an abundant expectoration of quite a di'Terent kind from the former sud denly comes on; by which the patient often dies very sp cedily; sometimes imn ediately, bei lg seemingly choaked. This kind Qf matter evidrn~ty conssts chiefly of the essential ingredients 0f pus (Sect. VIL. 1,) with not only the adventitious substances Vi. clots of selifcoagulated lymph, and soimetimes the red part of blood, but also masses, which are apparently the, broken down, solid parts, the cellular membrane, the vessels, and substance of the tubercles, in a-disorganized state. The sufferer often says, such matter tastes sweet. The mucus is here in too sma11l a preoortion, and not intimately mixed, to, occasion disguiseo I. Jn thea bronichitis, or infla-mmatory affection of the airtubes, the membrane remaining entire, attending various disease, e. g. the measles, a fever with a cold, various con. tinued Iv ers, an expectoratioi: of thin cream-like matter ocCu rS3 at -irst gradually, bu at last in great quantities, con. tinuing for a week or more. Although mucus is usually couLIO-ed up with this p wiform substance the two things gencratly remaMin in distinctly large masses. With little skill, the opaque or puriform fuiud may be collected separately fromn the mucous matter. It will be found to consist almost purely of the three essential constituents of pus (Sect. VII. 1,) there. being seldon a-ny adventitious substances. 4. M ico-paurulent, or' commixed expectorated. matter. This kind is perhaps of the nmost frequent occurrenlce. It is that. which many physicians know not how to designate, some consider it to be pus, and others to be mucous matter. This con, trariety of opirion arises from the want of definite notions of Dr. PEARSON'S Observatio, s pus and mucus. Hence the parties are not able to perceive that in this kind of sputum, exist many of the properties of pus, and also of mucus. I have described it in my former paper on expectorated matter, Phil. Trans. 1809, P. II. p. 3 17, under the denomination of opaque ropy matter, the third kind. I feel no dearadation in finding it necessary to confess, that a better acquaintance with the properties of pus, has taught mle that I was in an error, in considering this kind of expectorated matter to differ from other sorts, merely in the proportion, and not in the kinds of constituent parts. It now appears, that the sputum in question possesses such properties as might be predicted to exist, from the known -properties of pus and mucus separately, in case these two substances should be ins timately commixed. Accordingly, the opacity the straw colour; the greater density than mucus; the great globularity under the microscope; the greater proportion of residue on evaporation to dryness, than from mucus ; the milky liquid on heating this matter; the milkiness on agitation in cold water; are properties of pus. But the great viscidity, yet wat ncreased by neutral salts; the less opacity than pus; the less globularity than pus ; the smaller proportion of exsiccated residue than from pus; the moisture, or greater moisture on the exposure of the brittle residue to air, than from that of pus ; the more difficult diflusibility through cold water, and less degree of milkiness than from pus: the great proportion of leafy or fibrous masses on agitation in a very large quantity of cold water the speedy putrescency are properties of mucus. The mode of coagulation by caloric at 16o' and upwards, is Such as might be expected from the commixture, viz. in large masses of curd in a milky liquid, instead of into one un iforwn a zd Experiments on Pus. mass like pus, or into small curdy masses in a very large prom portion! of whey coloured liquid, like mucous spututm. Thick pus affords on evaporation to brittleness, Ior 8 residue ; and transparent sputum of the consistence of jelly, gives about -t or _JL of such residue; but this opaque matter under inquiry, affords to 4Iof brittle residue,according to the proportion of the two substances. I could not separate the supposed pus and mucus from one another, to exhibit them distinctly by water, or by any other means, on account, as I conceive, of the intimate diffusion through one another, and their mutual cohesion. But on evaporating the milky water, produced by agitating this sputum in it, or by letting it stand to collect the sediment, little else beside a mere congeries of globules seen under the microscope, was thus obtained. For the same reason, on standing, a serous liquid like that of pus (Sect. VII. i) does not separate, or only partially, from the opaque part, sa as to render it possible by ablution, to collect this coagulable liquid like that of pus: and the greater proportion of water, belonging to the mucus, occasions the coagulation by caloric to afford only a milky liquid, instead of an uniform mass of curd. This kind of sputum consistently with the phenomena, must be produced by secretion from the bronchial mnembrane in its entire state, and not by ulceration or abscess. For it is secreted in many cases, at the rate of a pint or more in each 24 hours, for waeeks and months successively, and for 20 or more successive winters. Also many persons recover their good health after this secretion, and it is the usual termination favourably of pneumonia, bronchitis, &c. It is produced by any disease of great irritation of the lungs ; as I leave found. S16 Dr. PPEARSON ;S Observalioh1s from ossification of the broncliai or pulmonary arter ies ; fron ca'1cli; from broken wind, or rupture of air cells, &C.* It is secreted also in consequence of irritation of thl. bron chial membrane by tubercles, vomiic, water in tire cavities of the chest, &cc The same kind of atter is secreted from tri nose on the decline of a common sever coryza in mna y cases It a pcar thel, that this kind of matter is a symptom of the mast fatal, as well as harmless diseases-it is a symirptoni ill one case, of the p rogress of disease to deati, and in another, of the termination in health, by being seemil-n I y a citical discharge9 Perhaps, if tb<ese facts had been observed and considered, numerous tmistakes in prognzostics, would hlave been avoided, and better practice have been employed; because the nature of diseases would have been rightiy understood. From this representation, it is plain, that a jLst opinion cannot be given merely from the examination of the sputUm-D, xw'ithout considering the disease by which it is produced, or of which it is a symptom. The proportion must also be considered of the pus and mucus in sputum: it may be estimated, by attending to the properties of each, as above stated. Such a compound as the present, scarcely is produced in any other part, but in the bronchial, and mucous membrane of the nose, because of the abundai t secretion of' mucus from these membranes. And when it is conceived, thlat both pus antw Imucus are secreted in a limpid state, from the same or at east contiguous organs, where th~cy first intimately comnnix, and then become inspissated; it will appear reasona'ole, that thety I believe this state of the lungs to have been first ascertaimd in brokc n-windeq. orses, by Mr. COLM AN. zawd Experiments on Pus. 317 cannot be readily, or at all completely-separated again fromone another. There is indeed, in these cases, no necessity for the admission of the secretion of the limpid fluid of pus of abscesses (Sect. VII. i) ; for it appears to me not unjust to consider mucus to be nothing more than the serum of blood, altered in its composition and proportion of water, so as to produce a viscid texture. The secretory organs of the mucous membrane, by virtue of their peculiar power, separate from the blood, in health, the mucus as above said, with some giobules, and also a small proportion of the self-coagulable lymph; which appears, on agitating mucus in a large proportion of cold water, in the form of leafy and fibrous masses.* The same secretory organs, it is easily conceivable, may in a diseased state, be excited to separate also self-coagulable matter from the blood, with more globules, in such a state as to become pus. Hence, such a commixture of the two substances must correspond to the opaque, viscid, expectorated sputum, of which I am writing. If I thought farther reasoning proper, it would be manifest, that all the phenomena, both in health and disease, belonging to the various kinds of sputum, consist with the theory above -delivered. * Serum of blood appears always to contain self-coagulable lymph, which is de. posited on standing; arid this appearance led GABER, PRINGLE, and CULLEN, into the erroneous opinion, of this deposit being pus itself. MDCCCX. T t 