Remarks upon the Plague at Copenhagen in the Year 1711. Communicated by John Chamberlayne, Esq; F. R. S. T H I S Disease began to show itself first in this City, about the beginning of July, 1711. It increased 'till the beginning of September; after which it diminished by little and little to the End of the Year, at which time it totally ceased. It appears, that before this Distemper there were about Sixty Thousand Souls in Copenhagen: From whence they infer, that there is Born every Year about Two Thousand, and that there Dies nearly the same Number; which being Multiplied by Thirty makes Sixty Thousand. In the Six Months which this Distemper continued, it is thought it carried off about 25000 Souls. It is true, the Publick Lists reckon but 22535; but it is agreed by all, that in the last Week of August, and the two first Weeks of September, each of which carried off above <inferred>2300</inferred> (280) <inferred>2300</inferred> Souls, there died a great many, of which there was no Notice taken. Almost the very same happened two Years before at Dantzicks; where, before the Plague broke out, there died Weekly from 45 to 50; but the Number of the Dead increased by degrees to the beginning of September; so that in the first Week of that Month there died 2205 Souls, in the second Week 2070, and in the third 2075. After which the Mortality decreased to the End of the Year. It is observable, I That there were some Houses which escaped the Infection; but that there were few where it did not carry off more than one or two Persons; and that there were many in which it did not leave a Soul alive. II. That generally speaking, this Distemper was most fatal to the meaner sort of People; there scarce dying any Person of Note; but on the contrary a great number of the Poor. Which may be attributed to several Causes: The first, and most general of which, is their nasty manner of Living. The second is, that this sort of People live very close together, and as it were heaped one upon another; so that sometimes there are four Families in one Room. The third is, the foolish Curiosity they have of seeing the Dead Bodies. And fourthly a great many of them are so biggotted to the Turkish Notion of Predestination, that they say, if it pleases God that I should die of this Disease, I shall not escape it; and if it be his pleasure that I shall live, I can't die: And upon this Notion they go abroad every where, and so catch the Infection. There are some of 'em also, which make no seruple of lying in the same Beds, where others have dy'd. The (281) The three sorts of Trades, of which there died most, were Coffin-makers (which took measure of the dead Bodies) Surgeons, and Shoe-makers. The Care that was taken, and the Medicines that were used, did great Service. I was told that Theriaca did little good; and they observed the same also at Dantzick. XXXVIII. 