An account of some Sanative Waters in Herefordshire. This account was communicated by Dr. B. in these words. There are two Springs in Herefordshire, whereof one is within a Bolt, or at least Bow-shoot of the top of the near adjoyning lofty Hill of Malvern, and at great distance from the Foot of the Hill; and hath had a long and old fame for healing of eyes. When I was for some years molested with Teters on the back of one and sometimes of both my hands, notwithstanding all indeavours of my very friendly and skilful Physitians, I had speedy healing from a neighbouring Spring of far less fame. Yet this Spring healed very old and Ulcerous sores on the Legs of a poor Fellow, which had been poyson'd by Irons in the Gaol, after other Chirurgery had been hopeless. And by many tryals upon my hands, and the Tetters, I was perswaded, that in long droughts, and lasting dry Frosts, those waters were more effectually and more speedily healing, than at other times. And not to omit this circumstance, I did hold this water in my mouth till it was warm, and perchance somewhat intermingled with fasting Spittle, and (359) and so dropping it upon the Teter, I there could see it immediately gather a very thin skin upon the raw flesh, not unlike that which is seen to gather upon Milk over a gentle fire. This skin would have small holes in it, through which a moisture did issue in small drops, which being wip'd away, and the water continued to be dropp'd warm out of the mouth, the holes would diminish, and at last be all quite healed up. For the Eye-waters, I conceived them more strongly tersive, and clearing the Eyes; and they had a rough smartness, as if they carryed Sand or Gravel into the Eye. I have known and try'd three or four healing Fountains of late discovery, or of no old fame that I could hear of. I did once put rich Pearl for some days in a vessel of water, to try whether the water would acquire a healing vertue; but my Experiments were interrupted. I had in my thoughts many other ways of Tryal; which I may resume hereafter. 