[1208] Frederici Hoffmanni Fred. Fil. M. D. Exercitatio Medico Chymica de Cinnabari Antimonii. Lugd. Batavorum 1685 8 vo THE Author of this Treatise designing to give an exact process of the Cinnabar of Antimony, and examine its Constituent principles; to Solve all Phaenomena that occur in its preparation; to explain the Mode of its operation, and describe its Virtues: begins first with its two Ingredients Antimony, and Sublimate; and considers their principles in distinct Chapters; makes Experiment in what proportion Salts, and Mercury are Containd in Sublimate; gives you caution how to choose the Sublimate, and gives account what happened remarkable from distilling Cinnabar of Antimony with Sublimate adulterated with Arsenick. Treating next of the Butter of Antimony, he examines its two Principles, the one Saline and fluid, the other Firm & dry, which he calls Mercurius Vitae; & here again he makes tryall in what proportion each Ingredient is included in this Composition; he insists much upon the Management of the fire, and Vessels in this preparation; and shews a way how to prepare Butter of Antimony without fire. And here he takes notice of that odd Phaenomenon, why Butter of Antimony makes such an effervescence with Spirit of Niter only, and with no other Corrosive Menstruum besides; which he Solves by supposing that the Spirit of Niter, by its mixing with the Salts in the Sublimate, becomes an Aqua Regis, which works upon the Included Antimonial particles, just as that Corrosive Menstruum is observ'd to work upon the powder of Antimony. Com[1209] Coming next to speak of Cinnabar of Antimony, he demonstrates these 3 Principles to exist in it, viz. Mercury, the Sulphur of Antimony, and an Acid Spirit impregnated with a Vitriolick Sulphur; that Mercury does cheifly constitute this Composition, he proves in that it comes very near in weight to common Precipitate. He likewise makes Experiments of the proportionable encrease of each Ingredient of Cinnabar by fire; particularly of the encrease of Mercury, which he proves both from the Observation of others and his own, in converting Tinn, Lead almost all into Mercury. Mercury revived from Cinnabar of Antimony he prefers much before the common, either to Amalgamate Metals, or in Medicine: the cause of which he imputes, to the Mercury's being depurate from its Metallick terrene and heterogeneous particles by the Sulphur of Antimony. To Revive Mercury from Cinnabar, he finds filings of Steel, or Copper to be more effectual then Lixivial Salts; to prove which, he mentions an Experiment (which he designs to make a nice tryal of again) where mixing 6 Ounces of Mercury with 10 ounces of Salt of Tartar, he obtained no more then 4 Ounces of MercuryComing next to speak of the Preparation of Cinnabar of Antimony, according to others, and his own ways, he places much in subliming it often, and Cautions you as in poudering this, so to grind all other pouders exceeding fine; since grosser pouders serve onely to absorb aciditys in the Primae Viae, and cannot enter the Lacteals, thence to be received by the mass of blood. He considers next how the Virtues of this Cinnabar may be exalted, whither by Solution, Fixation, or drawing a Tincture from it. Solution by Corrosive Menstruums, such as Aqua Fortis, Aqua Regis, Spirit of Niter, &c he condemns, as making it dangerous to be taken inwardly. Other Insipid AEthereal universal Solvents, L l l 3 such [1210] such as vain Chymists pretend to, he confesses himself ignorant of. Only this he has observed in his practise, that by pouring upon Cinnabar, sweet Spirit of Vitriol, though the Solution was only superficial; yet this Liquor did far exceed Cinnabar in Virtues. Amongst the different ways of fixing Cinnabar by common Salt, Oyl of Vitriol or Sulphur, he gives a Method so to prepare Cinnabar with Spirit of Niter and Oil of Vitriol, that its Mercury will not tinge Gold white, and the Cinnabar thus prepar'd, thrown upon burning Coals, will all fly away. He supposes Cnaeffelius preparation was such wherewith he cured the Gout; and the Author himself tells us that he has with this Cinnabar, extract of the Cortex, Lesser Centory, Gentian, and Salt of Wormwood, made up in Bolus, Cured some Quartans to admiration; yet he confesses 'tis not so fixt, but that its Mercury may easily be revived again. To draw a Tincture from Cinnabar he thinks not feasible, since he can find no Menstruum to dissolve it, but shews divers ways of drawing a Tincture from the Sulphur of Antimony included in the Cinnabar. Lastly he observes that Cinnabar is the best corrector of Opium, and describes a Preparation of his, where Opium is so corrected, which he prefers before the richest Laudanum In explaining the manner of the operation of Cinnabar, he follows Helmonts Philosophy; and asserts, that it does not work only by absorbing Acid humors as some would have it; (since by the affusion of an Acid on Cinnabar, no alteration is produced) but by opening all obstructions, resolving Tartareous humors,promoting their excretion; invigorating the Spirits and the naturall ferments of the body; and destroying those that are noxious. It may seem needless to mention all the diseases, against which he asserts Cinnabar to be effectual; since he explains its Operations to be much like those of a Panaceae. F I N I S. 