178 X. Experiments and Observations on the diferent Modes in which Death is produced by certain vegetable Poisons. By B. C. B3rodie, Esq. F. fR. S. Communicated by the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animnal Chemistry. Read February 2, 8i i. i. THE following experiments were instituted with a vie"N to ascertain, in what manner certain substances mct on thanimal system, so as to occasion death, indewp indently of Tne chanical injury. I was led to the inquiry, fromn tie subject of it appearing to be of considerable ilterest a'd importance,-nr from a hope, that, in the present improved state of physiol gical knowledge, we might be enabled to arrive at so xe more satisfactory conclusions, than had beeon deduced from a.y forn er obse rvations. The substances, which act as ,oisons when applied to z7canimal body are very numrous. In the experim ents, whic, i Nave hitherto made, I have employed vegetable poisons onlvt -Of these I have selected such, as are very active and certain in producing their effects, believing that, on this account, th e exact nature of those effects would be more readily ascertained. The principal objects, which I have kept in view have been to determine, on which of the vital organs the poison employed exercises its pima ILI influence, a d through w at ne dium that organ becomes alfectcd. I have also endeavou eMr. BRODIE 0,n te dfterent Mocles, &c. 179 to ascertain by what means the fatal consequences of some poisons may be prevented. With some of the conclusions, which I have ventured to draw, so far as I kmowv we were not before acquanLted; and others of then i, tnlouT not entirely new, had not been previously estabifihedl by satisfactory experiments. I shall relate first those experiments, in which poisons were applied internally, that is to the rnucous membranes of the tongue or alimentary canal, and afterwvards those, in which" poisons were applied to wounded surfaces I. Experiments. with Poisons applied to the Tongue or alimentary Canal. Experimeents with Alcohol. When spirits are taken into the stomach, in a certain qtuantity, they produce that kind of delirium, which, constitutes intoxication: when taken in a larger quantity, it is xvell known' that, they destroy life altogether, and that in the course of a verv short space iof time.r Intoxication is a derangement of the functio'$s of the mind, and1, as these are in some way cons nlected wiith those of the brain, it seems probable, that it is by acting on this organ, that spirits when taken into the stomach: occasion death, In order to ascertain howv far this conclusion'S just, I made the following experiments. Experinxent 1. I poured two drams of proof spirits down' I am indebted to Dr . . B A NCROF' for his assistance in many of the expe. rAments which I am about to detail. IMr. W. BRANDE lent me his assistance in the greater part of those which were aade. I yave been further assisted by Mr. BRou G HAd T , 1; 2r. R. R. w u IN, P, PMr, id GO -Ct MD.5E,, and by several other gentlmen. ISo Mr. BRODIE on thz dfternt Modes, the oesophqgus of a cat. Instantly he struggled violently; then lay on one side, perfectly miotionless and insenlsible; the breathing was laboured and stertorous, and the pulsations of the lheart were very frequent. He continued in this state for seven or eight minutes; then began to recover; the respira& tions became easier, and presently he stood up, and was abil to wvalk. Exp. .2 I injected an ounce and a half of proof spirits into the stomach of a large full-grown rabbit, by mneans of an elastic gum tube passed down the cesophagus. Trhe sane symptoms took place as in the last experiment; but the aninal did not b-jn to rccovcr fromr the State of inisensibility, initil forty minutes had ctapi. ed from the thimeof flh-e 1lnjcctionl. Exp. 3. Scven drams of proof sphiits werei nj' cted i>to the stomach of a young-er raIDbit. Tw o ini i mcs afrw ards hie evidertlyv was alirected by the spirit-0, and in three minutes mor e he lay on one side mnotionless and inse s-ible. The puptils of the ees wereperfctly diiated; there vere occasional ligh't coi. vu'sive nnotioins of the extremPies; the resniraeoln was laborious, it Wx aS gra dua1iy performed at longer and l:onger intervals, and at the enci' of an hour and fiift2 -on miuMAteS vad entirely ceased. Two minutes after the, anitial wvas parently dead, I opened into the thorax, and found the he rt acting with nmoderate force and frequency, cdrcuatiaIrk coloured blood. E inzrouced a tube into tihe trac-ia, and pro duced artificial resi)ration by inflating the lungs, amd found that by these means the action of t'he 'neart rnii'Ut be kept up to the natural standard, as ikn an ankial fro-ii who ri the hea&]. -s removed. IzZ tvh/ich Deatli is produced by vege1? I'& un t Ex.4. 1 njccL I into the stomnach of at r? lit twroue of proof spirits. T he injectLion as scarcely cso Ynpl4tedi, Ven the animal became perf~ectly inse.miblcswcO. Pr;esicaely the sSame sympltoms took i as in hAe o -st cx'SLWHand at the end of t-wenty-s-eVenh mintie.32, from3nq ie umtn o-f the injection, rabbit vas apparent> dc, c but o, exam> aing tne thorax the headt w^{as tLund Sti]l ne1Lng, as in the last experiment. It has been sl 'illV by Li. Bhe HAT, and the observation has bieenconfirmned Ub so'ie c:xperiments, ;in~aeI a ,b-bn cr-irne bYStneeprirel r sich I havte lately had -the honour of conmsunicating to this 1ea 'ed Society, that the brain is not directly necessary to tne action ox the heart, mind that, when t he fcn of the brain arn de-stroyed, the heart cont nues to contract for some line afterwsards, C-an theen ceases o1ly Tn consequeceof the suspe-nSon of respiration, xhich is under the .irflrience of the brain. It would, appear, fron the experiments, which 1I have just L etaildc that the symptoms produced by a I arg, quanti;ty Of 5 1' its taken i -no the stomach, arise entire y from-n dit Lurance G-the functions o f fe brain. The complete insensibilit.y tr external isept s ` oo ,s ; the dilatation of the. pupi1s of t' eyes; and the Uess of rnoticn, indicate that the -uncti.nA of thlis organ ae su son-dod; respiration, which is under its inflfien e c, is ill e)formed, and at last altogether ceasess; xhile the heart to th e action of wkiich the bramin is not dirc-Ictly necllssary, coi tnues to contral., circulatin dark colbLre bNood 2or somc ire afterwvarcls. Tfleere is a stril no' analogyr be~tewan the symptoms arisin;g SOl& spwtts taben internally, and those produced by injuries -of" te bramn. ConcL'ut, n of th brain, which} may be corinsLrcd :as thetADCCXJ A a I80 Mr. BROJDMI on the d nt Modes 'slightest degree of injury, occasions a state of mind resembling intoxication, and the resemblance in some instances is so coim plete, that the most accurate observer cannot form a diag osis, except from the history of the case. Pressure on thel b:ra n, which is a more severe injury than concussion, prodmutces I ss of motion, insensibility, dilatation of the pupils; respiation becomes laboured and stertorous, is perform'ed at long inters Ovals, and at last altoget'er ceases and the patient dies. It forms an interesting matter of inquiry, whether spirits when taken into the stomach produce their effects on the brain, by being absorbed into the circulation, or in consequence of the sympathy, that exists between these organs by Cmeans of the nerves. The following circumstances lead me to -conclude that they act in the last of these two ways. 1. In experiments where animals have been killed by the injection of spirits into the stomach, I have found this organ to bear the marks of great inflammation, but never found% any preternatural appearances whatever in the brain. 2. The eiects of spirits taken into thestomach in the last experihnent were so instantaneous, that it appears impossible that absorp tion should have taken place before they were l roduced. A. A person who is intoxicated, frequently becomes suddenly sober after vomiting. 4. In the experiments, which I have just related, I mixed tincture of rhubarb with the spirits known ing from the experiments of Mr. HOME and Mr WILLIAM BRANDE, that this, when absorbed into the circulation, was readily separated from the blood by the kidneys, and that -verysmnall quantities might bhe detected in the urine by the addition of potash; but, though I never failed to find urine in the bladder, I never detected rhubarb in it. in which Deal 1i sprduced by vegetable Poisons. t8S TIe including the termination of the thoracic duct in a ligar ture does not prevent spirits, when taken into the stomach, from producing their usual effects on the nervous system but subsequent observations, which Mr. HoME has already comi mnunicated to this Society, have shewn that no conclusion can be drawn from. this experiment. That a poison may affect a distant organ, through the medium of the nerves, without entering the circulation, is proved by the well-known circumstance of solution of the extract of Beladonna, when applied to the tunica conjunctiva of the eye, occasioning dilatation of the pupil of the same eye, though no other part of the system is affected. It has been formerly supposed by Dr. MEAD and other physiologists, that a poison may produce death by acting on the extremities of the nerves of the stomach and intestines, without being absorbed into the circulation. That it Should by these means be capable of affiecting the brain is not to be wondered at, when we consider the numerous and various sympathies between -this organ and the alimentary canal, evidently independent of any other communication than the nerves. Experiments with the Essential Oil of Bitter Almonds.* Experiment . One drop; of the essential oil of bitter almonds was applied to the tongue of a young cat. She was instantly seized with violent convulsions; then lay on one side motionless) insensible breathing in a hurried manner; the respirations * The essential oil of bitter almonds does not appear to differ from the essential oil of laurel. I was furnished with a quantity of it, first by my friend Mr. WI LIAM BRANDD ,and afterwards by Mr. Coo E of Southamupton-street, Aa 184 I .ODIE on the dferent Modes became laboured, took place at longer and longer mnterwils, and at the end of five minutes, from the application of thae poison, had entirely ceased, and the animal was apparently, dictd; but, orn opening the thorax, the heart was found actimJ regularly eighty times in a minute, circulating dar1k coloured blood, and it continued to act for six or seven miniu tes after> Exp. 6. I injected into the rectum-of a cat half an ounce of water, Nwith txvo drops of the essential oil. In two muinutes afterwards, he wias affected with symptoms similar to those, Which OccurIrd in the last experiment, and at the end of five miinutes, rom th-e injection. of -th e poison, he vas apparently dea'd. Tw\o minuttes after apparent death, tlhe leart was fouiid acting eighty times in a minute. On dissection, no preter. natural appearances were found either in the internal mein. brane of the rectum, or the brain. rThe symptoms produced by this poison, and" the circiain-l stance of the heart continuing to contraqt after apparent death, lead to the conclusion thatit occasions, death by disturbing the functions of the brain. While engaged in these last experimnents, I dipped the blunt end of a probe into the essential oil, and applied it to my tongue, meaning to taste it, and having no suspicion that so small a quantity could produce anyof' its specific efects on the nervous systemn ; but scarcely had I. applied it, when I experienced a v-ry remarkable and unpleasant sensation, which reife rccd chiefly to the epigastric region, but thle exact naturiIe of 'which I cannot describ., Ibecause I know nothing preCIsely similar to it. At, the same time there was a sense of V Alness i'i my limbs) as if I had not the command of my in wh~ich De t is produced by vegetable Posons. 1 85 muscles, and I thought that I was about to fall. However, these sensations were momentary, and I experienced no in-, convenience whatever afterwards. I afterwards applied a more minute qvantity of the essential oil to my tongue several times, wi-hout experiencihg from it any disagreeable effects; but on-.applying a larger quantity, I was aff-ected withi the same, nomentary sensations as in the former instance, and there w as a recurrence of them in three orfour seconds after the first attack had subsided. From the instantaneousness, with which the effects are produced; and from its acting more speedily when appiied to the tongue, than when injectedwinto the intestine, though the latter presents a betterabsorbingsurface, we may conclude that this poison acts on the brainthrough the m-ediumof the nerves, without being absorbed into the circulation. Experiment with the Yvice of theLeaves of Aconite. Exp. 7. An ounce of this juice was injected into the rectum, of a cat. Three minutes afterwards he voik d dwha~t-appeared to be nearly-the wnole of tne injection he thenstoodcf-orsolle mninutes perfectly motionless, with his le-s dra wn togetn rg at the end of nine minutes, fron the time of the injection, ha retchcd and vomited; then attempted to mralk, but faultered and fell at every step, as if from giddiness. At the end of thirteen minutes, he lay on one side insensible, motionless, except some slight convulsivTe motions of the limbs. The respiration became slow and: laboured; and at. forty-seven minutes from the time of the injection, he was, apparently dead. One minute and a haalf afterwards, the heart was found-ontracting regularly one hundred times in a minute, 186 MHr. BRODE On the dfferent Modes It appears from this experiment, that the juice of aconite when injected into the intestine, occasions death by destroying the functions of the brain. From the analogy of other poisons it is rendered probable that it acts on the brain through the medium of the nerves, without being absorbed into the circulation. This opinion is confirmed by the following circumstance: if a small quantity of the leaf of aconite is chewed, it occasions a remarkable sense of numbness of the lips and gums, which does not subside for two or three hours. Experiments with the Infusion of Tobacco. Exp. 8. Four ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected into the rectum of a dog. Four minutes afterwards he retched, but did not vomit, he then became faint, and lay motionless on one side; at the end of nine minutes from the time of the injection, the heart could not be felt he gasped for breath at long intervals; and in another minute there was no appearance whatever of life. I immediately laid oven the cavities of the thorax and abdomen. The heart was much distended, and had entirely ceased to contract; there was no peristaltic motion of the intestines. Exp. 9. An ounce of very strong infusion of tobacco was injected into the rectums of a cat. Symptoms were produced similar to those, which occurred in the last experiment, and the animal died at the end of seven minutes from the time of the injection. On opening the thorax immediately after ideath, the heart was found extremely distended, and to have entirely ceased acting, with the exception of a slight tremulous motion of the auricles. in which, eath is producedl by vegetable Posons 187 Exp. 1o0. Three ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected into the rectum of a dog. He was affected with symptoms similar to those in the former experiments, and died at the end of ten minutes. On opening the thorax immediately after death, I found the heart much distended, and to have entirely ceased contracting. Enxp. ii. Three ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected; into the rectum of a dog. Immediately there took place tremulous contractions of the voluntary muscles. Five minutes afterwards the injection was repeated in the same quantity. The dog then was sick, and threw up some of the infusion, with other matter, from the stomach; he became faint, and died ten minutes after the second injection. Immediately after respiration -had ceased I opened the thorax, and found the heart extremely distended, and without any evident contraction, except of the appendix of the right auricle, which every now and then contracted in a slight degree. I divided the pericardium on the right side. In consequence of the extreme distension of the heart, this could not be done without irritating the fibres with the point of the scalpel. Immediately both auricles and ventricles began to contract with considerable force, so as to restore the circulation. Artificial respirationrwas produced, and the circulation was kept up for more than half an hour, beyond which time the experiment was not continued. We mlay conclude from these experiments, that the effect of the infusion of tobacco, when injected into the intestine of a living animal, is to destroy the action of the heart, stopping: the circulation and producing syncope. It appeared to me that the action of the heart ceased even before the animal had i33 Mr. BRODI on tle djfferent -Modes ceased to respire; and this was confirmed by another expe r ment, in whic', in a dog kIilled by the infusion of tobacco,J found the cavities of the left side of the heart to contain scarlet b ood, whie in those of the right side the blood xas dar> coloured. TV is pison therefore diif rs miaterially from alcok ioi,9 thre essenAial oil of almonds, and the juice of aconite n, ~?c La ve no direct inf-uence on ie action of the iheaeO r. Th in f"U sion of tobacco renders the heart insensible to the stimlul.'s of ~the blood, b ut it does not a-ltgether destroy thle ower op muscular contraction, since thb heart resumed its action in onr instance on the division of thle pericardium, anAd I have found t 'at the voluntary muscles of an animal killed by this-po io01 are as readily stimulated to contract by the inmluence of thi VOLTAIC bAttery, as if -it had, been killed inz any other manner. At the saine tilne, however, that the infuson oftof oaco "de stroys the action of the heart, it. aj ars to Wcestroy also t-e functihos of the brain, since these did rot retutrn in the last experiment; although the circulafto ' was restored, and kept up by artificial respiratio. Si'tCe terer is 1,o direct4 cOmM unicafton' bet v he intS tin al canal and eth heari I x 7as at first induced to s o e that the latter becomes affected in consequence of tfhe infusion .Seing conveyed into the: blood by absorption. Some &rcum.Stalnces in the following xxerim ent have since ld.ne to doubt whether this is the case. Exgt5. 2.1 a do 'wstioe head was removed I kept up the circulation by means of zitificial respiration, in the maniner already described in the account of sonem e perimcnts, which 1, lately communicated to this Sciety. I then injected, into the stomach and intestiin. .siuPe ounces of infLsion of tob'a c in which Death is prod ced by vegetable Poisons. 189 At the time of the injection, the body of the animal lay perfectly quiet and motionless on the table; the heart acted regularly one hundred times in a minute. Ten miinutes afterwvards the pulse rose to one hundred and forty in a minute; tLC peristaltic motlon of the intestines was nnuch increased, and the voluntary rn, scies in every part of the body were thrown into repieated and violent sb asmodic action. The joints of the extremities were alternately bent and extended; the musles of tae spine, abdomen, and tail alternately relaxed an! contracted, so as to turnt the whole animal froni one side to ttne other. I have observed, in other instances, spasmodic actions of the muscles , whre the circulation was kep t up by artificial respiration, after the removl of the head, but not at all to be comp-ared, either in' streir ht or rrequency, with those, whichi tod o'Le OA aas ,c~asion. I made pres sure on the abdorninal aorta for more than a minute, so as to obstruct the circulation of the blood in the lower extremiites but the muscular contractions were not lessene I in conseuence. an -hou; after the injection of thie infusion, tihe ar tificial respiration was discontinued. The heart continued to act, ci culating dark coloured blood; the inuscular cointractions continued, but gradually diminished in strength aind frequency. I tied a ligatur,round the vessels at the base of thte '-m art, so as to stop the circulahion, ncverthele.s3 tche mzs :iilaar conltra)lctm tions stilli cqvtinud, tiougi lss froa i.e ! and fo cible tv ual be-Lre, -ald sconie mvinnutes %Cdapsc before they tn'Urcbly cease-l In this exp;eriment, the disposition to co ntrtcticwn in thAe iLuscies was lily much increased, instLad o-f L&>i.2g eininished, 2s in thoae just 1r-lted. If the i fusioncx ua fco i Tencf ite heart from being absolrbeld into the blool, ard Ltihus oim13 D CC;X1. L b 190 Mr. BRODIE on the dfferent Modes into actual contact with its fibres, there is no evident reason why, the removal of the brain, and the employment of airtificial respiration, should occasion so material a difference in its effects. If the contractions of the voluntary muscles had den pended on the infusion circulating with the blood, it is reatsonable to suppose that the pressure on the aorta would have occasioned some diminution of them, and that the complete obstruction of the circulation would have caused them to cease altogether. From these considerations, I am induced, on the whole, to believe that the infusion of tobacco, when injected into the intestines, influences the heart through the medium of the nervous system; but I have not been able to devise any experi-. ment, by which the truth or fallacy of this opinion might be put beyond the reach of doubt. It appears remarkable, that the brain and nervous system, although not necessary to the action of the heart, should, when under the influence of the infusion of tobacco, be capable of influencing this organ so as to stop its action; but this is analogous to what we see occur in consequence of violent emotions of the mind. Those states of the nervous system, which acecompany the passions of joy, fear, or anger, when existing in a moderate degree, render the heart more sensible to the stimulus of the, blood, and increase the frequency of its contractions; while-, when the same passions exist in a greater degree, the heart is rendered altogether insensible to the stimulus of the blood, and syncope ensues in which Death is produced by vegetable Poisons. '91 Experiments with the Empyreumatic Oil of Tobacco.* Exp. 13. Less than a drop of this oil was 'applied to the tongue of a young cat. Instantly violent convulsions took place in all the muscles, and the respirations became very frequent. In five minutes after the application, she lay on one side insensible, with slight spjasmodic actions of the musclesAt the end of eleven minutes, she retched, but did not vomit. In a quarter of an hour, she appeared to be recovering. I rev* peated the application of the poison, and she was again seized with violent convulsions and became insensible, breathing at long intervals, and in two minutes from the second application respiration had entirely ceased, and she was apparently dead. On opening the thorax, I found the heart acting wivAJ regularity and strength, circulating dark-coloured blood. I introduced a tube into the trachea, and produced artificial respiration; the contractions of the heart became augmented in force and frequency, and there was no evident diminution in six or seven minutes, during which the artificial respiration was continued. On dissection, nothing remarkable was found in the appear., ance of the tongue or brain. The symptoms and mode of death, in this experiment, did not essentially differ from those produced by the essential oil of almonds. I was surprised to find the effects of the empyreumatic oil so entirely different from those of the infusion of * I was furnished with the empyreumatic oil of tobacco by Mr. W. BRAN DE. It may be procured by subjecting the leaves of tobacco to distillation in a heat above iAthat of boiling water: a quantity of watery fluid comes over, on the surface of which is a thin flm of unctuous substance. B b 2 Mr. BRODIE on the diSfent Modes tobacco. Supposing that this difference might arise frown the poison being more concentrated in the oil than in the infusion, I made the following experiments. Exp. 14. A drop of the oil of tobacco was suspended in an oIMcE and a half of water by Imeans of mucilage of gu-narabic, an'd the whole was injected into the rectum of a dog. In two m~inutes afterwards he became faint, retched, but did not vonuit. HS a-p2pe)eared to be recovering from this State, and in twentyfiveminutes after the first injection, it was repeated in the samne quantity. HE as Then seized with svmptoms similar to those in tien last experiment, and in two minutes and a half he wvas appareintly deadc Two minutes after apparent death, on the thorax being opened into, the heart was found actin1g, regrularly one lhundred times in a minutes and it continued acting for several minutes. Exp. I. A drop of the empyreurnatic oil of tobacco with an ounce of water was injected into the rectum of a cat. The symptoms produced were in essential circumstances sitidar to those, which occurred in the last experiment. The a'nimal was apparently dead in five minutes after the injection., and >he heart continued to contract for several minutes afterwards. We may conclude from these experiments, that the empyreumatic oil of tobacco, whether applied to the tong'ie, or i jected into the intestine, does not stop the action of thv. Hiilirt and induce syncope, like the infusion of tobacco; butt that it occasions death by destroying the functions ox the brain, with. out directly acting on the circulation. In other words, its effects are similar to those of alcohol, the juice of aconite', and le essent -a I O1 of almonds. z wihich Death is produced by vegetable Po19sons. 39 III. Experiments with Posons applied to zvounded Sufaces Experiments with the E ssential Oil of Almonds. Ex. iG6. I made an incision in the thigh of a rabbit, and introduced two drops of essential oil bet veen the s'kin and the muscles. In four m-inutes after the application, he was seized with violent convuions, anll bMcatne insensib C", and in twvo minutes more he was appar ntiy dUad; b-tth) cart VIs felt through the ribs actiigone hundred 'and twve:1ty timres in a minute, and ft continued acting for several minlates. Thlore were no other appearances in the limno, tha nwould have re. sulted from an ordinary wounid, Exp. 17. Two drops of the essential oil of almonds were introduced into a wound in the side of a mouse. Twv& mit utes afterw ards he was afThcted with symptonms sinailar to those which occurred in the last experiment, and in two minutes more he was apparently dead, but the heart continued to contract for some minutes afterw ards. From the experimn.nts, which I have juslt related, and 'ron-r others which it appears unnecessary to detail, as the general results were the same, I have learned that where the esentiaL oil of almonds is applied to a wound, its effiects are not so instantaneous as when it is appliedl to the tongu e; otherwise, there is no difference in its effects in whatever manner it is applied. Expenrment with thue jice of the Leaves of Aco;ite. Exp. 18. I made a wou d 'in the side of a young r bbity and introduced, between the iskin and muscles about twenty 194 Afr. BaODIF on the different Modes drops of the juice of aconite. Twenty-three minutes afterwards he was affected with symptoms in all essential respects similar to those, which occurred in an experiment already related, where the juice was injected into the rectum, and at the end of forty-seven minutes from the application of the poison, he was apparently dead. Two minutes after apparent death, the heart was found contracting, but very feebly. Experiments with the Woorara.* Exdp. 19. A small quantity of the woorara in powder was applied to a wound in the side of a Guinea pig. Ten minutes afterwards the animal was unable to walkl; then he became quite motionless, except some slight occasional convulsions. He gradually became insensible, the respirations were laboured, and at the end of fourteen minutes from the applica-m tion of the poison, the respiration had entirely ceased, and he was apparently dead; but on opening the thorax, the heart was found acting seventy times in a minute, circulating dark coloured blood, and it continued to contract for several minutes afterwards. On dissection no preternatural appearances were observed in the brain; nor was there any other appearance in the limb than would have arisen from an ordinary wound. ExRp. 20. I made a wound in the side of a Guinea pig, and introduced into it about two grains of the woorara in powder. * The Woorara is a poison with which the Indians of Guiana arm the points of their arrows. It appears not to differ essentially from the Ticunas, which was er.> ployed in the experiments of the Abbe FONTANA. I am indebted to Dr. E&r BAr4CROFT, who not only furnished me with some of the Woorara which he ha,: `ar his possession, but also lent me his assistance in the experiments which werem:,eit with it, in which Death is produced by vegetable Poisons. 195 At the end of twenty-five minutes, symptoms took place very similar to those, which occurred in the last experiment, and in thirteen minutes more the animal was apparently dead; but the heart continued to contract one hundred and eight times in a minute, and by means of artificial respiration the circular tion was kept up for more than twenty minutes. The results of other experiments, which I have made with the woorara, were similar to those just described. The heart continued to act after apparent death, and the circulation might be kept up by means of artificial respiration. It is evident that this poison acts in some way or another on the brain, and that the cessation of the functions of this organ is the immediate cause of death. I found in these experiments, that the best mode of applying the woorara is when it is dissolved in water to the con. sistence of a thin paste. I first made the. wound, and then smeared the poison over it with the end of the scalpel. I found that the animal was more speedily and certainly affected, if there was some hemorrhage, unless the haemorrhage was very copious, when it produced an opposite effect, by washing the poison away from the wound. When the poison was applied in large quantity, it sometimes began to act in six or seven minutes. Never more than half an hour elapsed from the time of the poison being inserted, to that of the animal being affected, except in one instance, where a ligature was applied on the limb, which will be mentioned afterwards, The woorara, which I employed, had been preserved for some years, which will account for its leaving been less active, than it has been described to be by those, who had witnessed its effects when in a recent state. I96 Mr BRODIE on the diferent Modes ExpirnMents with the Upas Antiar.* Exp. 21. About two grains of this poison wer made into a thin paste with water, and inserted into a wound in the thigh of a dog. Tw elve minutes afterwards he became languid; at the end of fifteen minutes, the heart was found to beat very irregularly, and with frequent intermissions; after this, he had a slight rigor. At the end of twenty minutes the heart beat very feebly and irregularly; he was languid-; was sick and vomited; but the respirations were as frequient and as full as under natural circumstances, and he was perf ctly sensible At the end of twenty minutes, he suddenly fell on one side, and was apparently dead. I immediately opened into the thorax, and found the heart distended with blood in a very remarkable degree, and to heave entirely ceased contracting. There was one distinct and fill inspiration aft.r I hbad begun making the incision into tie thorax. The ci-vi tis of the left side of the heart contained scarlet blood, and those of the right side contained dark coloured blood, as in a living animal, Exp. 2i A small quantity of the upas antiar, prepared as before, was insIerted into a wound in the thigh of a young cat. She appeared languid in two m-inutes after the poison was inserted.> The symptoms, wvhich tool place did not essentially difrfer frm those whichc occurredin tne last experiment, except that there wvcr SOLE Concvulsive notions of the limbs. We arefformed, that the 'islaTd of Java produces twvo powerful veetable poisons, to jne of whch the natives &`vr tlh naive of C 5 p4s tieu,. and to the other that of Uas antir. I was suppoied with a qanItity oG the later through the kindn ss of Wdr. MARSDEN, who hod sorne of it il is possession. wh wAIch Death is'produced by vegetabk Poisons. 10f At eight minutes after the poison was inserted, she lay on one side, motionless and insensible, the heart could not be felt, but the respiration had not entirely ceased. On opening into the thorax, I found the heart to have ceased contracting. It was much distended with blood: and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour. There were two full inspirations after the incision of the thorax was begun. On irritating the heart with the point of the scalpel, slight contractions took place in the fibres of the appendices of the auricles, but none in any other part. EXP. 23. The experiment was repeated on a rabbit. The symptoms produced were similar to those in the last experinent; but the animal did not vomit, and the convulsive motions were in a less degree: he died eleven minutes after the poison was inserted. On opening the chest, the heart was found to have entirely ceased contracting; it was muchdistended wvith blood;, and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour. On irritating the heart with the Point of the scalpel, the ventricles contracted, but not suffib ciently to restore the circulation. Exp. 24. About a grain of the upas antiar Mas inserted into a wound in the side of rabbit. Hie was afficted with symptomsn similar to those before described, and died in ten minutes afterthe poison was applied . On opening the thorax iminediatelyafter death, the heart was foulnd to have ceased contracting, and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour. It appears from these experiments, that the upas antiar, when inserted into a wound, produces death (as infusion of tobaccodoes when injected into the intestine) by rendering the heart BNIDCCCXT! C C 198 Mr. BRODIE on the dfferent Modes insensible to the stimulus of the blood, and stopping the circulation. The heart beats feebly and irregularly before either the functions of the mind, or the respiration appear to be affected. Respiration is performed even after the circulation has ceased; and the left side of the heart is found after death to contain scarlet blood, which never can be the case, where the cause of death is the cessation of the functions of the brain or lungs. The convulsions, which occur when the circulation has nearly ceased, probably arise from the di ninution of thre suhply of blood to the braini, resembling those, wvhich take place in a person, who is dying frorn hemorrhage. There remains an interesting subject of inquiry, c; through what medium do poisons influence the brain when applied to wounds ?" That poisons applied in this manner do not produce their effects precisely in the same way as poisons taken internally, is rendered probable by this circumstance; that, some poisons, which are very powerful when applied to wounds even in small quantities, are either altogether inefficient when taken internally, or require to be given in very large quantities, in order to produce their effect, and vice versa. A poison applied to a wounded surface may be supposed to act on the brain in one of three ways, 1. By means of the nerves, like poisons taken internally. 2. By passing into the circulation through the absorbent vessels. S. By passing directly into the circulation through the divided veins. Exp. 25. In order to ascertain whether the wooraa acts through the medium of the nerves, I exposed the axilla of a rabbit, and divided the spinal nerves supplying the upper In wzch Death WU produ 'ed by ee table Poisons. 199. extremity, just befoore they unite to form the axillary plexusd The operation was performed with theo greatest care. I not onl1y divided every nervous filament, however small, which I could detect, but every portion of cellular membrane in the axilla, so tiat the arte ry and vein were left e tirely insulated. I then made two wounds in the fore-arm, and inserted into them some of the woora a formed into a paste. Fouvteen minutes after the poisMn was . plied, tie hind legs became paralytic, Mid in teI milutes more fie died, with symaptoMirs precisely simfilar to those, which took place in the former experiments, and the heart continued to act after apparent death. On dissection, the nerves of the uipper extremuity were parti clarly examnined, but not the smallest filament could be found undivided. I made the following experiment to ascertain whether the woorara passes into the circulation through the absorbent vessels. Exp. 26 I tied a ligature round the thcoracic duct of a dlog, just befre Lt per.forates the an gle of the loft siubelaviani and jurular vci~ls. I thnen n ide twvo Wounds in the lIet hind Ieg, and inx"roducod som, e of the woorara in Powdr into them. In less t han a quafter of an hour he becarne anficted with the usual syvmptomts, and died in a fbv miinutos forw-erwards. After death-, I dissected the thoracic dact wivl great care.. I found it to have been perfectly sCCUred by the ligattuire. It vms very much distended wtli chyle, and about two o incles$ below its termih"ation its coats had given way, a-ind cbyle was, extravasated into the ccllular mernbran"e. The lymphaticvessels in the left axiida were distended in. a very remarkable degree, and on dividini Chem, not less than a dram of ly'i-plh issued from the divided ends. C c 9 2Q 3" Mlr. BRODIE on the different Modes Since neither the division of the nerves, nor the obstructi'01 of the thoracic duct interfere in the slightest degree waith the effects of the xzoorara, there is presumptive evid ence that it: acts on the brain by entering the circulation through the divided veins. I endevored to ascertain, by experiment whether tnis is really the case. To apply ligatures to the large vessels of a limb only would evidently lead to no satisfa ctory conclusion, since the anastomosing vessels mighit still carry onl the circulation. The only way, which I could devise of performing the experiment, was to include all -the vessels, small as well as large, in a lIgature. Exp. 2/. In order to make the expy~eriment more satisfactorily, I exposed the sciatic nerve of a rabbit in tn-e upper and posterior part of the thigh, and passed under it a tape hialf an ench wide. I then inaPde a wound in the leg, and having introduced into it soim?e of tSo-svo \btara' mixed with water, I tied the tape moderately tight on the fore-part of the thigh. Thus Il interrupted the communication between the wounds and the other parts of the body, by means of the vessels, while that by means of the nerve still remained. After the ligature was tightened, I applied the woorara a second time, in another part of the leg. The rabbit was not at all affected, and at the end of an hour I removed the ligature. Being engaged in some other pursuit, I did not watch the animal so closely as I should otherwise have done; but twenty minutes after the ligature was removed, I found him lying on one side, motionless and insensible evidently under the influence of the poison, but the symptoms were less violent than in most instances, and after lying in this state he recovered, and the limb became per ectly warm, and he regained the power of using it. IWZd'hA Dath is pis duced by vegetab/e Poisons, 2 e GI I Exp. 28. I repeated the last experimient with this diifernence, that after having applied the poisola, I made the ligature as tight as I could draw it. I renxoved tue ligature at the end of an hour and twenty minutes, but the animal was not at all affected either before or after the removal of the ligature, and on the folloin g day he lhad recovered the use of thelimb. Exp e29. 1 repeated thze expo-+riim-net a third tim e, drawinrg 'the ligature very tight. At the end of forty-five n inutes. the animal continued perfectly well, and the ligature was removed. I wXt-ched him for three quarters of an hour afterwards, but there we're no symptoms of his being affected by the poison. On the followiing day the rabbit died,, but ti is I attribute to the 'injury done to the limb and scicati' nerve by the Iiorature as there was the appearance of inflaum'on io, the parts ina the neighbor'urhood of the ligature. These three experiments were made with the greatest care. lFromz the mode, in which the poison was applied, from the quantity employed, and from my prior experience, I should have entertained not the smallest doubt of the poison taking effect in every instance in less than twenty minutes, if no ligataure had beenl applied. In two of the three, the quantity of woorara was more tiban had been used in any former experi. mnents. I have not judged it necessa ry to make any more experirnents, with the ligature on the limb, because the numerous experiments of the Abbe FONTANA on the ticunas, coincide in their results, with those, which have just been detailed, and fully establish the efficacy of the ligature, in preventing the action of the poison. It is not to be wondered at, that the ligature should sometimes fa'il in its effects, since these must ISM2 Mri BRODI on Ihe dfferent lfodes evidently depend ori the degree, in waich the circulation1S obstructed, and on the len0 th of time during which the obstruction is contin-ed. There can be little doubt that the woorara aaicts the brain, by passing into the circulation through the divided vessels. It: m probable that it does not produce its effcts, until it enters the substance of the brain, along with the blood, in which it is dissolved; nor wv1ii the experiments of the Ahb' FtONTAA in which he found the ticunas produce almost instant death when. injected into the juwular vein of a rabbit be found to ngi litate against this conch ion, xvwen we conrsider how short is the distance, which, in so small an aninal, the blood has to ptass from thejugular vein to the carotid' artery, and the great rapidity of the circulation; since in a rabbit under the inluenceof terror, during such an exprnrietM, the heart cannot Ve supposed to act so senom as threc times in a second. I have made no experiMeints to ascertain through what medium other poisons whien app ed towounds fct h aI organs, but from analog y we may suwppose that they ntor the *ircaiatio tCrouo h t divit d bloodbv eso,' The facts already related ledi me to conclude that alcolhoI the essential oil of almonds, the juice of aconite, the oil of tobacco, and the woorara, occasion death si uply by destrojing the functions of the brain. The folloving experimentappears fullv to establish the truth of this conclusion. Exp. 30. The temperature of the room being 58' of FA rRENHEIT 'S thermometer, I made two wounds in the side of a rabbit, and applied to them so ne of the woorara inthe foirI; Mwi ich Death is produced l-y vegetable Poil'so ZS. 2Ort of paste. In seven minutes after the application, tie hind legs vere paralysed, and in fifteen minutes respiration lhad ceased, and he was apparently dead. Two mninutes afterwards the 1-eart was still beating, and a tuibe was introduced through an opening into the trachea, by mneans of which the lungs were inflated. The artificial respiration was made regularly about thirty-six times in a mninute. At first, the heart contracted one hundred times in a minute. At the end of forty minutes, the pulse had risen to one hundred aild twenty in a minute. At tlie end of an hour, it had risen to one hundred and forty in a i-1inute. At the, end of an h-our and twenty-three minutes, the pulse had fallen to a hundred, and the artificial respiration vas disAt the conrimenceraent c of thie experimentt, the ball of a -thermometer being p1aced Iin the rectuim, the quicksilver rose to one hundred degrees; at thne close of the experiment it had fallen to eighty-eight and a half. During the continuance of tWe artificial respiration, the blood In the femoral artery was of a florid red, and that in the feroral vein of a dark coLour, as usual. It has been observed by M. BIcHAT, that the immediate .cause of death, when it takes place suddenly, must be the cessation of the functions of the heart, the brain, or the lungs. This observation may be extende t -o death under all circumstances. The stomach, the liver, the kidneys, and many other organs are necessary to life, blut their constant action is not necessary ; and the cessation of their functions cannot Ithere:Xre be the zmtediate cause of death. As in this case the action M 1WBRODIE 0o the dfferent locks of thre heart had' wveer ceased; as the circulation of the blood' tvas kept up by artificial respiration for more than -an hout and twenty minutes after, the poison had produced its full efects; and as during this time the usual changes in theCoo?ur of the blood took place in the lungs it is evident that tie rinctions of the heart and lungs were unimpaired: but that those of the brain had ceased,. is' proved, by the animal having continued in a state of complete insensibility, and by this circumnstance, that anim'al heat, to the generation of whici I have formerly shewn the influence of the lbrain to be nece& sary,, was not generated. Having learned that the circulation might be kept up by, artificial respiration for a considerable time after the woorara had produced its full effiects, it occurred to -me that in an animal tinder the 'Influence of this or of any other poison thiracts in a similar manner, by continuting the artificial respiraX tion for a sufficient length of time after natural res1phatfion; had ceased, the bra imlght recover from the inmpression whch th' e poison had produced,-and the aiLm,.al nmight be restored to 'life. In the last experimenr the animal gave nosign of returning sensibility; but it is to' be observed, I. That the q mantity of the poison employed was very large. 2e That there was a great loss of animal heat, in consequence of the temperature of the room being much below t e natural temperature of the animal, which could not therefore be considered under such favotrable circumstances as to recovery, as if i had been kept in a higher temperature. I-. That the circuLIk tion was still vigorous when I left off infating the l ngs, and therefore it cannot be known wxxhat would hav;e been the reusalt if the artificial respiration had been longer continued. Ai whica Deaa ft L s pivded by vegetable Po ons. 205 EAp. 3o. A wound was made in the side of a rabbit, and one drop of the essential oil of almonds was inserted into it, and immediately the' animal was placed in a temperature of 9o'. In two minutes he was under the influence of the poison. The usual symptoms took place, and in three minutes more respiration had ceased, and he lay apparently dead, but the heart was still felt beating through the ribs. A tube was then introduced into one of the nostrils, and the lungs were inflated about thirty-five tines in a minute. Six minutes after the. commencement of artificial respiration, he moved his head and legs, and made an effort to breathe. He then was seized with convulsions, and again lay motionless, but continued to make occasional exearts to breathe. Sixteen minutes after its coMrmencement, the artificial respiration was discontinued. He now breathed spontaneously seventy times in a minute, and moved his head and extremities. After this, hie occasionally rose, and attempted to walk. In the intervals, he continued in a dozing state; but from this lhe gradually recovered. Int less than two hours he appeared perfectly well, and he continuedwell on the followi fg day. The inflating the lungs has been frequently recommended in cases of suffocation, where the cause of death is the cessation of the functions of the lungs: as far as I know, it has; not been before proposed in those cases, in which the cause of death is the cessation 0o the functions of the brain.* It is probable that this Method of treatment might be employed mwith advantage for the recovery of persons labouring under the effiects of opium, and many other poisons. * Since this paper was read, I have been favoured by the Right IHon. the President with the perusal of a Dissertation on the Effects of the Upas Tielltu, lately published. MDCCcIOx D d 206 hXMr.'BPODm the dfferent Mo/fdes V. The experiments, which have been detailed lead to the foL* lowing conclusionis. . Alcohol, the essential oil of almonds, the juice of aconite, the empyreumatic oil of tobacco, and the woorara, act as poisons by simply destroying the functions of the brain; universal death taking place, because respiration is under the influence of the brainand ceases when its functions are de-stroyed. 2. ThRe infusion -of tobacco when injected into the Ptestine, and the upas antiar when applied to a wound, have the power of rendering the heart insensible to the stim ulus of the blood, thus stopping the circulation; in other words, thc y occa~sion syncope. * There is reason to believe that the poisons., which in these experiments were applied internally, produce their effects through the medium of the nerves without being absorbed into the circulation. 4. When the woorara is applied to a wound, it produces its effects on the brain, by entering the circulation through the divided blood-vessels, and, from analogy, we may conclude that other poisons, when applied to wounds, operate in a similar manner. . When an animal is apparently dead from the influence of a poison, which acts by simply destroying the functions of at Paris by M. DE L ItL E, by which I find that he had employed artificial respiration for the purpose of recovering animals, which were tunder the influence of this poisons with success. M. DE I1 L LE describes the Upas 'rieuti as causinrg death, by occasioning repeated and long continued contractions of the muscles of respiration, ont which it acts through the medium of the spinal marrow, without destroying the fuac. tions of the brain. Wt which Death is prodced by vegetable Poisons. 2O7 -t~le brain, it may, in som-e instances, at least, be made to recover, if respiration is artificially produced, and continued for a certain length of time. From analogy we tmight drvaw some conclusions respecting tihe mode in which some other vegetable poisons produce their effects on the animal system; but I forbear to enter into any speculative inquiries ; as it is my wish, in the present communication, to record such facts only, as appear to be established by actual experiment. Addition to the Groonian Lecture for the Year i8io. In the experiments formerly detailed, where the circulation was maintained by means of artificial respiration after the head was removed, I observed that the blood, in its passage through the lungs, was altered from a dark to a scarlet colour, and hence I was led to conclude that the action of the air produced in it changes analogous to those, which occur under ordinary circumstances. I have lately, with the assistance of my friend Mr. W. BRANDE, Made the following experiment, which appears to confirim the truth of this conclusion. An' elastic gum bottle, having a tube and stop-cock conelected with it, was filled with about a pint of oxygen gas. The spinal marrow vas divided in the neck of a young rabbit, and the blood-vessels having been secured, the head was removed, and the circulati-on was mna tained by inflating the lungs with atmospheric air for five minutes, at the end of which time the tube of the gum bottle was inserted into the trachea, and carefully secured by a ligature, so that no air might escape. By making pressure on the gum bottle, the 208 Addition to the Crooni'an Lecture. gas was made to pass and repass into and from the lungs about thirty times in a minute. At first, the heart acted one hundred and twenty times in a minute, with regularity and strength; the thermometer, in the rectum, rose to 1o00. At the end of an hour, the heart acted as frequently as before, but more feebly; the blood in the arteries was very little -more florid than that in the veins; the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 930.I The gum bottle was then removed. Oin causing a stream of the gas, which it contained, to pass througlh lime-water, the presence of carbonic acid was indicated by the liquid being instantly rendered turbid. The proportion of carbonic acid was not accurately determined; but it appeared to form about one-half of the quantity of gas in the bottle. B. C. BRODIE. 