Part of a Letter from Mr. Patrick Blair to Dr. Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. Giving an Account of the Asbestos, or Lapis Amiantus, found in the the High-lands of Scotland. I Take leave to communicate the Relation of a Gentleman in the High-lands, not many Miles hence, who has lately built an House of a singular kind of Stone, digg'd out of a Quarry not sar from him. This Stone, after the Rubbish, which is not very deep, is done away, lyes Horizontally in a Bed endu'd with parallel Fibres, with few Interstices, soft at the beginning, and easy to be smooth'd and polish'd without any Tool, but rather with Sand, or an other hard Stone of a blewish Colour, which asterwards hardens so, that it resisteth the injuries of Air or prejadice of Fire. When first (435) first the Quarrier began to dig it, he was at a mighty loss; for endeavouring to cut and raise it after the ordinary manner with Wedges, and other usual Instruments, it broke and crumbled all to pieces: But afterwards, observing more narrowly the Duct of its Fibres, so to speak, he endeavour'd to cut it with Spades lengthways; and by this means he procured Stones as big as he had a mind, which smoothed very easily along the Tract of their Fibres; but when cut transverse, no Means nor Methods could render them smooth, ~ut their Surface remain'd unequal as the Extremities of a piece of Wood. Although, as I said, this Quarry has but few Interstices, yet in those it has the true Asbestos, of a whitish Silver Surface, consisting of several fasciculi with parallel Fibres, like to those of the muscular Fibres of salted Beef, easily separable from each other, pure white, till it becomes so small as the finest Fiax, and so ductile, that it may be spun into the finest Thread, whereof it were easy to make the incombustible Cloth, so famous for Shrines among the Ancients. In other places of those Interstices, was likewise to be observed a reddish Substance, near to the colour of Sanguis Draconis; but whether Fibrous or not, I cannot inform you, since the Gentleman could not shew me any of it; but added, he believed it might be good for dying. I got a small parcel~ of the Asbestos from him; and he told me, if he had known its value, he could have preserv'd some Pounds of it. I am ready to think the second kind was Fibrous too, which might make a very beautiful Cloath, being striped with the other. The Quarry is at present full of Rubbish; but he tells me, he is to build again this ensuing Summer; and you may be assur'd, if any such Substance be hereafter found, it shall be carefully preserved. In a Word, this whole Quarry may be said to be Asbestos of different Colours, the blaeish being of a much courser, and the white and red of a (436) a finer Grain. I have been at the Gentlemans House, of whom I have this Account, and you may look upon it as Authentick. Coupar of Angus, Yours, March 15. 1712. P. BLAIR. VII. 