t t62 XVIIT. Observation of the great Eclipse of tbe Sun of Sept , r793. By John Jerome Schroeter, Esq. Communicated by George Best, Esq. F. R. S, Read May z$, 179+. ALTHOUGH the vveather, owing to temporary clouds atid flyillg showers, have at times been somewhat ullfavourablen it was yet upon the whole sufficiently clear to admit of a good observation, to which the slll?eriority of my islstruments was not a littIe conducive. Having prepared my hand telescope, beitlg a 7-feet reflector, with a power magnifyillg ^o times witll great distinctrsLess, and mrith a field that took in rllore tlzan the disk ofthe SUI1 I watclled atterlfively for the first contact, but was preyenteel by some intervenillg clouds: the firstglitnpse, however, I llad svas immediately after -the immersion, whicla tooli place at -the northwest edge of the sun; and it was as yet so very trifling, that had it not been for the excellence of my instru:nents I should hardly have perceive(l it ; and I am well assured that the first contact did 11X3t take place above 4 seconds before this instant of time. This observatiotl was, according to true time, (corrected by g equal altitudes on the 4th and 6th) on the th Sept. at lOh 26/ s9tt, 3; SO that the first Gentact must have been at loh 26' S' Tlle distance of the cusps I could not observe. The end ofthe eclipse was, on the other hand) observed with SIr. SCHROETER'S 01bserration, Sc.2much more accuracy; for although the sun was at this time frequently coveied by clouds of diSerent densities, yet by means of a variety of glasses, which I appiied occasionally to the eyeglass of nly telescopen I sas enabled to see distinctly tlle decreasing obscuration which q]vlrixlg t:he >3 last seconds was scarcely perceptible, although certaily stil1 existing, tlle orb of the sun not being perfectly coluplete till after the expiration of the last-mentioned interval, svhicll eilded at lh 32t 54J true time. A11 tisese observations were made sith the abovemen tioned 7-feet telescope, made by professor SCHEADER, magni fying 5o times. ; Duingthe intermediate period of the eclipsen the atmosphere being tolerabltr sereneg I was enabled by the excellence of this teleseope, and a large 1 g-feet reflector, to make a very interesting observation, which led to sotne importalat illferences. 1. All my telescopes, evell the g-feet achromaticn applied to my quadrant, showed tlle globular body of the ttloon like -a dusky grey orb floating before the sun, its faint light becorn ing somesvllat brighter towards the riln. e. Botll mys£\Ti; aad several otller persons wllo were then with me, percei;ed soon af-ter the beginnillg of the eclipse three high ridges of nzountaitzs on the south-east border of the moon projecting sensibly into the disk of the sun S one of them-appearing to be a lolzg and considerable mountainous range, and the two others to the westward being more in the shape of . prominerlt points. rrhis was seen with the 7-feet reflector magnify ing only $o times, but this verydistirtctly*: I appli:ecl a power of z60, together with the projection machine, alld found that the tsvo last-mentiolled points were from e4 to 28 seconds asunder, that the long eastern range was somewhat 't64^dr. SCHE0ETER'S Observaticn ofmore distant from the zearest of the former, and that all of them projectecl, if nts)t 4, at least 3 seconds beyond tlle rim of the moon ; so that their heigllt from the saicl rim could not be less than three-qvlarters of a Ger^man mile. It occurred to rne that these probably were parts of tlle very high motlntainous region Doerfel (v. Selen. Fragm. Tab. IV.); I delineated them, and compared tlaetn with my cllarts, alld found t:hat, thougl according to the present libration of the lnoc)n their projection ought not to be precisely as llere representeelg tlle coincidellce was yet sufficielltly striking. Soon after, when the south-Nvestern limb of the moon had advanced a little further on the disk of the sun, I discovered on this part another e6lually prominent mountainous range, which I also measured and delineated. It consisted of a ridge one millute and from go to 40 seconds, and therefore not less than 23 or 24 geographical miles, in lengtll; and four insulated mountains to tlae westward, a11 projecting from 2 to g seconds beyond the rim of the moon ; these I hrld litt;le doubt mtlst be parts of tlle very 1(3fty mountainous regiotl Lelbnitz, svhich a particular libration now presented in such a projection to our sight. About noon, tlle eclipse being then at its greateQit obscuration, I vetltured to direct my excellent :3-ieet reflector to the dim light of the sun; and now the dark orb of .9ze tnoon, and its lofty moulatainous rim to the southsrard, appeared with such uncommon, and in a manner palpable clistinctness) that the impression of it c an never be eXaced from my imgination. I at the same time distirlguished bet;*,veen these high ridges, other less ones, which hosvever svere {fi-uaizy u!ell defiXled, but which I had not perceived with the 7-feet reflector; and the great Eclli5se of the Su.the contrast between several lofty ridges, and tlle smooth almost regular rim of the moon to the westward, was here sllfficiently striking. . Not having for several days before, and likewise on tlle very day of the eclipse, noticed any spots on the disk of the sun, three small ones ollly excepted, which were perceived on tlle egth of August; and it appearing very remarkable to me that, with this particular modification of the atmosphere of the sun, none of its blazing spots should be perceptible; I confess I was not a little surprised on viewing the sun's disk with my large reflector, to find that no, either dark or blazing, spots appeared on the luminous part, but that the whole visible disk was in a mallner marbled, or covered over with whitish, more or less faint, nebulosities; as I had indeed seen it some years ago with my 7-feet HERSCHELIAN telescope, but by far not ir so strikillg a degree. I at the same time discovered, westward towards the ritn of t}le sunf a very sma11 but distinct blackish spot, which other observers with illferior telescopes may well 1lot have noticed, since I myself could not see 2t with my 7-feet SCHRADERIAN reflector. Some other observations I have made I shall reserve for the present. Lilienthal, Sept. 8, s793MmMDbCXC 1Y . 