(49) VIII. A Letter from the same Learned and Ingenious, Gentleman, concerning his, farther Progress in inoculating the Small Pox: To Dr. Jurin R. S. Secr. I N Answer to what you require from me, as to what has been farther done, I have only to add that since I writ to Dr. Whitaker, I have made the Insition upon about fifteen Persons, who have all had the Distemper very favourably, and got thro' it with a great deal of ease. As nothing uncommon or extraordinary did happen in any of these Cases, it will not be necessary to trouble you with a particular Account of any of them: They were most of them at some distance, the Small Pox being in a great measure gone from this Town and Neighbourhood. I am very sensible of the Favour done me by the Royal Society, who were pleased to take notice of my Letter to Dr. Whitaker, which you had nothing to move you to besides a generous Disposition to encourage the smallest attempts towards any Thing, that may tend to publick Advantage. I must own that all the Information I had concerning this Affair, which I have happen'd to be engaged in, was entirely from the Philosophical Transactions. 'Tis now about six Years, since the Royal Society did communicate to the World some Letters from two very considerable Physicians residing in Turkey, whose good Sense or Integrity we had no Reason to call in question; these Gentlemen did sosolemnly (50) lemnly assure us, that the Method of Inoculation had been for many Years practised in those parts of the World, with almost constant success. I had, as well as all others who have been engaged in the Practice, with sufficient Sorrow and concern, been called to many in the Small Pox, whose Cases were so deplorable, as to admit of no relief. And therefore I cou'd not but be very thoughtful about this Method, which promised to carry Persons thro' that cruel Distemper, with so much ease and safety. I was so far from knowing that it was a Crime, that I always thought it the Duty of our Profession, to do whatever we could to preserve the Lives of those, who commit themselves to our Care; And I knew no Reason, why we ought not, with all humble thankfulness to Almighty God, to make use of any means, which his good providence shall bring to light conducing to that End. This Matter, tho' of so great Importance, lying dormant so long after it was known, is, I presume a sufficient proof, that none have been very forward to try Experiments. But when we had the Account in the Publick Papers, that it had by their Royal Highness's Command been done with success at London, I cou'd not be satisfied without trying it here. I was soon convinced, that it would be of very great use; and the more experience I have had of it since, the more I am confirm'd in the same opinion. I believe all others, who have seen any thing of this Practice, are in the same sentiment, and there is no doubt, but in a few Years the World will acknowledge the service, which the Royal Society have done to Mankind, in first revealing to this part of Europe a Thing so beneficial as it will certainly prove; for tho' some few unfortunate accidents may sometimes happen, yet those will be very rare in comparison of the many sad and disastrous Events (51) Events, which this Distemper has been, and ever will be very fruitful of, while it is left to rage in its full force and violence. Sir, I doubt not but when you have collected a sufficient Number of Observations for it, you will be able to demonstrate, That the Hazard in this Method is very inconsiderable, in proportion to that in the ordinary way by accidental Contagion, so small, that it ought not to deter any Body from making use of it. In order to satisfy my self, what Proportion the Number of those that die of the Small Pox, might bear to the whole Number that is seized with the Distemper, in the natural way, I have made some enquiry hereabouts, and I shall take the freedom to transmit the Accounts to you, because I believe you may depend upon their being taken with sufficient care and impartiality. In Hallifax, since the beginning of last Winter, 276 have had the Small Pox, and out of that Number 43 have died. In Rochdale, a small Neighbouring Market Town, 177 have had the Distemper, and 38 have died. In Leeds 792 have had the Small Pox, and 189 have died. It is to be noted, that in this Town, the Small Pox have been more favourable this Season than usual, and in Leeds they have been more than usually mortal; but upon a Medium in these three Towns, there have died nearly 22 out of every hundred, which, is above a fifth Part, of all that have been infected in the natural way. I have in these Accounts confined my self to the Limits of the Towns. The Numbers that have had the Small Pox in the Country round about, is vastly greater; but the Proportion of those that die is much the same. I have made the enquiry in several Country Villages hereabouts, in (52) in some I found the Proportion to be greater, in others less, but in the main it is nearly the same. I am, &c. Thomas NettIeton. Halifax June 16. 1722. F I N I S. L O N D O N: Printed for W. and J. Innys, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Prince's Arms in St. Paul's Church Yard. 1722. 