(53) IX. An Account of Books. 1. Museo di Fisica & di Esperienze, &c. By Signior Boccone; with additional Remarks by Mr. John Ray, F. R. S. THIS Book is made up of many curious Observations, Natural and Medicinal, about various Subjects, not digested into any certain Method, but miscellaneously disposed: Each Observation dedicated to some Noble or Learned Person. The Four first Observations are concerning that dreadful Earthquake that happened in Sicily, in the Year 1693. and contain a particular and exact Account of all the Accidents and Effects or Consequents of it. It had Two main Fits or Concussions, which may be called Two distinct Earthquakes: The First was on the 9th of January, about Five Hours after Sun-Set. The Second was on the 11th of the same Month, at about Twenty one Hours of the Day, according to the Italian Account. This was stupendous beyond Humane Imagination, and lasted about Four Minutes with fierce Pulsations, the Earth so leaping up and rebounding, that it was impossible for a Man to keep himself on his Feet, unless he stood still, firm, without Motion: And he that cast himself, or was cast down upon the Ground with his whole Body, was tossed to and fro, and carried from one place to another by the Shocks I shall not mention any Particulars; there having been a full and exact Account and Description of this Earthquake inserted in these Transactions. The Fifth Observation is concerning Yellow Amber, or Succinum, and its Original. He endeavours by many Arguments to prove, that Amber is nothing else but H Naphtha (54) Naphtha, or Oleum Petroleum coagulated or condensed. I was told by a Chymist at Montpellier, That Oleum Petroleum was the same with Oyl of Jet or Gagates, and not to be distinguished by Colour, Taste, Smell, Consistency, Vertues, or any other Accident, as he had by Experience found, which renders Signior Boccone's Opinion probable, there being great Affinity between Jet and Amber. The Sixth Observation is about some Alcalick and Medicinal Earths of Italy, particularly the Terra Virgine aurea, known in Venice by its Salutary Effects: This is found in the State of Modena, at a Place called San. Paolo, near the City of Reggio. It is of great Use in putrid and malignant Fevers, in Hypochondriacal Passions, above all it is wonderful in stopping Haemorrhagies or Fluxes of Blood. The Seventh Observation gives us an Account of the Powder of Claramont (so called from the Name of the Author, who hath written a little Book about it) or Terra de Baira, because it is found at a Place called Baira near Palermo. It is found also in other Places of Sicily, and is of a White Colour. It hath the same Vertues and Uses with the Terra Vergine aurea. He speaks also in this Observation of the Mineral Bezoar-Stone of Giraldinus; and of the Terra Melitensis or Petra S. Pauli, and gives us the Receipt of the Pulvis of Fondacaro. More Experiments of the Vertues of Terra de Baira he gives in the Twelfth Observation. The Eighth Observation gives a farther Account of the Lapis Bezoar Mineralis fossilis of Sicily, which is a kind of Geodes: This reduced to Powder, and given in a convenient Vehicle, is of great use in Malignant Fevers,Small Pox and Worms, &c. Of this Stone he hath treated largely in his Recherches & Observations Naturelles, Printed at Amsterdam. The (55) The Ninth presents us with several sorts of Terra Lemnia. 1. One found near the City of Roan in Normandy. 2. One found in the Mountains of Siena, agreeing in all Points with S. Paul's Earth of Malta. 3. One found in the Mountain of Maiello in Abruzzo, which our Author thinks a fit Succedaneum of the Terra Virgine aurea forementioned. In this Observation the Unicornu fossile is briefly touched. The Tenth adds more sorts of<inferred>Terra</inferred> Lemnia, as that of Mililla in Sicily, and the Terra Bezoartica of Nocera, which he accounts a sort of Lemnia. This is endowed with Alexipharmac Vertues, being found by Experience to be very efficacious against Malignant Fevers, Heat of Urine, and Fluxes of Blood. It agrees in Taste, Smell and Vertues with that of Lemnos or Malta. The Aqua Santa or Aqua di Nocera (described by Annibal Camillus in a certain Treatise of his) running through the Mine or Veins of this Terra Lemnia, impregnates its self with the Particles thereof, and thereby becomes so cordial and corroborant, that it works miraculous Effects in many Diseases, so that it is the Glory of Italy. It is to be used as other mineral Waters. In his Twelfth Observation he gives us a more exact and particular Description of the Fungus typhoides coccineus tuberosus Melitensis; names many Places besides Malta, where it is to be found, as about Tunis in Barbary, in a little Island near Cozzo, in divers places of Sicily, especially near Trapani in the Salt-Works, and in a little Island called Ronciglio, &c. He commends it as a sovereign Medicine against the Dyssentery, either taken in Powder or made into a Syrup. The Thirteenth is concerning an Urn found in Malta, containing Ashes and a Balsamick Liquor. H 2 The (56) The Fourteenth contains an Account of the Italian Medicinal Manna, found and gathered not only in Calabria, but many other Places, which he Names, and assures us that it is no Celestial Dew, or Mel Aereum, but a Gum or Exsudation of the Fraxinus rotundiore folio C. B. or Ornus. But I meet with little in this Observation concerning Manna of Calabria, but what is to be found in Botanick Books. Here he gives us an Account of Four sorts of Manna, found in the Eastern Provinces, which he received by Word of Mouth from a discalceate Carmelite Fryar, who was a Missionary into those Parts. He speaks in this Observation of a sort of Dew, which in the Isle of Corsica falls on the Leaves of some Plants, in clear, hot, and dry Weather, and condenses into great Drops, which being gathered by the Country-men, and tasted, is found to be a delicate sweet Manna; but being struck by the Sun-beams, is insensibly dissolved and dissipated, leaving only upon the Leaves whereon it fell, some Impressions or fine Capsules of a white Colour. The Fifteenth Observation concerns the Properties and Medicinal Uses of the Manna of Calabria. Here he gives us a Proverb the Calabrians have concerning Manna. To a sick Person that wants Physick they prescribe, V a e piglia la Manna, perche o ti sana, o ti ne Manna, i. e. Manda, Go and take Manna, for either it will heal thee, or else send thee; viz. to another Life. Which Proverb had its Original from Experience of the unhappy Effect that Manna hath had upon some sick Persons, who having taken it too old, have died by excessive Purging. But this is a Caution all Physitians give, not to take Manna above a Year old. Dr. Paulo Manfredi, a Physician of great Reputation at Rome, acquainted our Author, That he had often experienced that Manna will purge with great Convenience exhibited in a much less Dose than it is commonly given in, if dissolved in a copious (57) pious Liquor, viz. One single Ounce in a Pound of Broth or distilled Water. The Sixteenth is about the Venomous Spider or Tarantola of Corsica. The Island of Corsica he tells us, produces neither Porcupines, Wolves, nor Vipers; but instead of these last, it breeds venomous Spiders, called by the Inhabitants Tarantola or Malmignatto. Of which there are Two sorts, the One hath a round Body, and resembles the Tarantola of Apulia, and in like manner bites, impressing on all the Parts of the Person bitten, an irreparable Cold with Pain and Cramps and Swelling in the whole Superficies of the Body. The other Spider stings, makes no Web, is in Shape of the Body like to a HorseAnt, he hath but Six Feet; whence it appears to be really no Spider, but of the Ant-kind. Its stinging is attended with many dangerous Symptoms, as Lividness of the Flesh, an intolerable Spasmus or Cramp, sometimes stopping of the Urine and natural Evacuation; a kind of Congelation of the whole Habit of the Body. For Cure, they use Cupping, Scarification, burning the Wound, applying to it Theriaca, or Orvietan, and giving inwardly strong Wine with Venice-Treacle to drink. The Seventeenth Observation is of the Tarantola of Apulia, which is a beaten Subject, and of which more hath been said than is true. Notwithstanding what our Author hath written, I am not fully satisfied, that the Dancing of the Tarantati to certain Tunes and Instruments, and that these Fits continue to recurre Yearly, as long as the Tarantola that bit them lives, and then cease, are any other than acting Fictions and Tricks to get Money. The Symptoms that attend the biting of the Tarantola of Apulia, as also the manner of Cure and Remedies, are the same with those mentioned in the precedent Observation. The Stinging of a Scorpion produces (58) produces the same Effects with the biting of a Tarantola. If a Tarantola be removed out of its natural Place, v. g. to Naples, Rome, &c. and there admitted to bite, it doth no harm at all; which is very unlikely; but that the Tarantolae bred at Rome are innocent, is probable. The same being experienced in the stinging of Scorpions, which in Africa is deadly, but in Italy, if they are bred there, Innocent: and I doubt not but that we in England have the same Species of Spider with the Tarantola. The Eighteenth Observation is about a venomous Spider of Sardinia, whose Bite is very dangerous, swelling the whole Body, &c. and causing Death in a few Hours. It's cured by Oyl Olive, in which the Creature is suffocated, set in the Sun in Summer-time, or upon a Stove for some Days, anointing the part therewith Morning and Evening, and giving some Treacle inwardly. Here he discourses a little upon the Pietra de cobras, which he thinks most probably to be a Mixture or compound thing, not a simple Body; concerning the salutary Effects, whereof Naturalists are not agreed, Signior Redi stoutly contradicting Father Kircher, with his Experiments. In another Place he saith, that some affirm, that the Stones with which Signior Redi made his Experiments,were not true and genuine ones; and here he gives several Instances of Cures wrought by the Use of this Stone, well attested. The Nineteenth Observation is concerning Poisons,and their Preservatives or Antidotes. Here he gives us Two Receipts of the famous Electuary, called, Orvietan; and saith, that he had found out, that some Empirick, noted for the Preparation of this Medicine, put into it some Plants of Asarabacca, and as many Stalks of Gratiola, which are so far from being Alexipharmical, that they Purge with Violence, and gives an Account of this Practise. He saith, that he cannot, without Reluctancy, believe (59) believe that Asclepias is an Alexipharmick, because it is so like to Dogsbane, indeed it is a Species thereof, and because Physicians never prescribe it alone. In the Twentieth he gives us more Antidotes against the Biting of the Tarantola of Apulia. And here he discourses concerning Signatures, which he approves, and gives us Signatures of several Plants of his own Observation; which as I can make no great Account of, so neither do I utterly reject. The One and Twentieth contains some Instances of the Strange Effects of a kind a Fear or Terror, called by the Sicilians, Scanto; the like to which, excepting those I suspect to be fabulous, are sometimes occasioned by Frights with us. He discourses in this Observation concerning the inward Use of Cantharides;, and tells us, That in the upper Hungary they give them to Men bitten by a Mad Dog, from One to Five, and to beasts in a greater Quantity, in Spirit of Wine, Theriaea or Crums of Bread; and that after the Use of them, those bitten do not make bloody Urine. Others affirm that they are of much Use in the Gonorrhea. He tells us, That all the Physitians and Aromatarii he had consulted, agree in condemning the inward Use of them. But yet, after all, he predicts, That Cantharides will have the same Fate with Mercury and Antimony, which after various Censures and Oppositions, at last found Credit with those very Physitians which at first desamed them, and abhorred the Use of them as dangerous and Mischievous. The Title of the Two and Twentieth is concerning Obstructions, Flatuses, Intemperies of the Liver, and a periodical Volvulus or Twisting of the Guts. The Three and Twentieth is concerning regular Periods of the Ague and other Diseases; here he discourses of the Root Naput, celebrated by Tho. Bartholine for the Cure (60) Cure of the Colick in Norwey. He observes that the Notes of Imperatoria major ~. B. agree very nearly with those of Nuput, mentioned by Bartholine; and judges it to be the same. The Four and Twentieth presents us with curious Actions of some Animals. And the Five and Twentieth with extraordinary and curious Effe&s of some Plants, One I shall mention, If with the Flowers of Fraxinella we touch other Flowers, as Roses, Violets, Gillyflowers, Orange-Flowers; These, although they be Odoriferous, suddenly lose their natural Scent, and assume that of the Fraxinella. The Six and Twentieth is concerning the extravagant and prodigious Effluvia of some Plants and some Animals. The Seven and Twentieth about various curious Efsects produced by Nature. The Eight and Twentieth treats of the Bees of the Hyblean Mountains Sicily, and those of other Provinces, wherein I find little but what is to be met with in Books written concerning this Subject. The Nine and Twentieth gives an Account of the Pitch of Castro, well known in the Ecclesiastick State, famous for its medicinal Vertues, and experienced for the Cure of many Dieseases. It is found in the Campagna of Rome, issuing out of the Cracks or Fissures of a Mountain above the Village of Castro, Ten Miles distant from the City of Veroli, belonging to the House of Colonna, and Sixty from Rome. Here he mentions several sorts of Bituminous Oyls, and Pitches found in other Countries; there being scarce any Province in Europe, in which there are not found of them. The Thirtieth exhibits a Description of the Macaluli of Sicily, which is a certain Place near Agrigentum, where there is a continual Fermentation, and visible bubling up of (61) of the Superficies of the Earth, which at times swells and rises up a Yard high in the Form of a little Hill, and sinks again in a strange manner, &c. To this he adds several Stories of Eruptions of Vapours and Fumes out of the Earth, divers of them mortiferous: And Two Letters, the First about Petroleum, found in the State of Modena, and a ~, which oftentimes in a Year vomits ~ Smoak, Flame, and an ~ stinking Lome or Mud. The Second about an Oyl or Balsom found in a Well near Viterbo in Italy. The One and Thirtieth gives an Account of the Oyl of Juniper; and the Natural Productions of the Territory of the Duke of Parma. The Two and Thirtieth concerns the Glossopetrae of Malta, and other formed Stones, concerning the Original and Formation of which he embraces the Opinion of Columma, Steno and Scilla, that they were really the Parts or Covers of those Animals which they represent. He answers the principal Objection against this Opinion, viz. those Clusters and Lumps of Lenticular Stones of a Sassron Colour amassed together, which are frequently found in Malta, and of which we have some very elegant ones; which seem to be the Minera or Ovarium of those Bodies they call Serpents Eyes; these he supposes may be the Eggs of some Fish, which produces or breeds them in a little Cistula or Bag; by which means they come to be united together in such Lumps; which is the best Answer to this Objection I have yet met with; if at least there be any Fish which produces her Eggs in such a Manner. The Three and Thirtieth is about the Alternations of a certain Well near Chambery in Savoy, much resembling the Vicissitudes of our Ebbing and flowing Well at Giggleswick in Torkshire. I To (62) To this he adds several Examples of Wells which flow at certain Seasons of the Year, as the Crotta of S. Epiphanius at Famagusta in Cyprus: One at Sussenage near the City of Grenoble in France: A small Well in the Province of Lionois, by the Way side which leads to Gabiano, where the Petroleum is gotten, which runs now one way, now another, contrary to the North and SouthWinds. The Four and Thirtieth is a Philosophick Conversation containing several Conferences about Natural and Medicinal Matters. The First concerning the Pleurisie: The Second concerning Womens Vapours, or the Suffocatio Uterina: The Third concerning the Cancer in Womens Breasts: The Fourth concerning Chirurgical Helps for Wounds, Tumours, Strokes, and Pains: The Fifth concerning certain Medicinal Matters. The Five and Thirtieth exhibits some Vertues and Uses of divers common and neglected Plants, which grow in almost all Countries. The Six and Thirtieth gives an Account of the various sorts of Cheese, and some other Milk Meats, made in Italy and other Places. The Seven and Thirtieth is a Discourse of Joan Baptista Hodierna concerning the hanging of Clouds in the Air, and of Snow, &c. The Eight and Thirtieth is an Account of a Simpling Voyage of John Baptista Triumphetti, Botanick Lecturer in the Sapienza of Rome, and Demonstrator of Simples in the Physick-Garden there; in which Voyage he gives an Account of the Sulphur-Mine at Solfatara, and the Manner of distilling Sulphur out of it. 2. Of the making of Iron, of the Furnace where it is melted, and the Forge where it is hammer'd, declaring the manner of both. 3. Of the Mine and Preparation of Roch Allom near Rome. Most (63) Most of the following Observations are about the Nature and first Impression of Coral, and other Lithophyta, Fuci, & Musci Marmi, Antipathes and Sponges, of which sorts of Bodies he gives us the Description of several Species: The original of divers Marine Productions, and other imperfect Plants, as Fuci, Corallines, Zoophytes, Mushromes; and the like; with the Descriptions and Figures of several Species of these Bodies. Several Sorts of the Pietra Stellaria or Astroites. Lastly, he adds a Discourse concerning Mushromes. The Two and Fortieth and Four and Fortieth Observations we have already given an Account of in the Abstract of his other Book. The Three and Fortieth Observation is about the Turchoises of the New Rock, which are artificial Stones Chymically prepared; the Manner of Preparation see here. This Work contains great Variety of Matter, and a multitude of Medicines, simple and compound, for almost all Diseases and Infirmities. The Author shews himself to be a Man of great Candor and Ingenuity, speaking evil of no Man, nor detracting from any; without Emulation giving a fair Character of every one that deserves it, and that rather beyond than short of their Merit, according to the excessive Civility of his Nation. 2. An Account of Paradisus Batavus, continens plus centum plantas, &c. with additional Remarks by Mr.John Ray, F. R. S. THE learned and much celebrated Herbarist Dr. Paul Hermans, Author of this Work, whose Name alone is sufficient to recommend it to the ingenious Reader, designed therein to give us the History of such rare and non-descript Plants, as well European as Indian, as were cultivated either in publick Physick-Gardens, or those of I 2 private (64) private curious Persons, in and about Holland; as we see now accordingly performed. Of some of those he presents us with both Descriptions and Figures, of others with Descriptions only, and of others which had been before described, but not delineated with Figures, refering us for their Descriptions to their first Authors. Of the first Kind, this Work contains more than an Hundred Species, digested in an Alphabetical Order. The Author intended a Second and Third Century, for which he had prepared Materials, having caused many more Plants to be drawn by Hand, which are not as yet engraven, a Catalogue whereof the Editor hath added to the end of the Book, which it were to be desired, some Publick-spirited Persons or Societies would be at the Charge of cutting in Brass, that so great a Treasure be not wholly suppressed and lost. All that I shall or need say of this Piece is, That the Descriptions are very accurate, and sufficient alone to lead us into a certain and unerring Knowledge of the Plants described, and withal concise, and not encumbred with superfluous and unnecessary Stuff, which obscures rather than illustrates; and that the Icons are answerable to the Descriptions, not needing their Assistance to give us a certain Idea of the Species they represent; to which I may add, that they are so exactly delineated and curiously engraven, that for their Elegancy alone, they may invite the ~ in Sculpture to purchase the Book. But beside the Subject of the Work, that is, the Descriptions of the more rare Plants therein contained, the Author gives us some remarkable Observations by the by, as p. 19, &c. An exact Division of Mallows, or Malvaceous Plants; which he distinguishes into Two Kinds; 1. Such as bear naked Seeds. 2. Such as bear Seeds enclosed in Cases or Vessels. To this last kind he appro~ the Name of Althaea, referring the common Althaea (65) thaea of the Shops to Malva, Strictly so called. I think it had been more proper, to avoid Confusion and Mistake, to have left in quiet Possession of the Name Althaea, the Plant on which it was imposed by the Ancients, by which that Plant is denoted in all the Writings of Herbarists and Physitians, Ancient and Modern; and imposed a new Name on the Indian Mallow, as Monsieur Tournefort hath done, viz. ~. Such as bear naked Seeds he divides into Malvae in Specie so called, and Alceae. The Notes of Malva he constitutes, Many naked semilunary Seeds, disposed in the Form of a Rundle or Placenta; a double Calix divided into Eight Segments or more, as it were into so many Leaves; Flowers made up of Five Leaves or Petala, joined at the bottom, and a Stile in the Middle, furnished with many Apices; or instead of such Style, made up of many Leaves [Petala;] simple Leaves, alternately situate, either roundish or oblong, either entire and undivided, or divided but not deeply. Those called by the Name of Alcea are, he saith, of Two Kinds. Those of the first Kind agree in their principal Parts with Mallows, [Malvae] only their Stalks and Leaves are somewhat more rough, and these divided into narrower and deeper Laciniae or Jags. Their Flowers have no Petala in the middle, but a Style with many Apices proceeding sometimes singly, sometimes many together out of the Bosoms of the Leaves. Those of the latter Kind have naked Triangular Seeds, Five for the most part, rarely more or fewer, close joined together into a Head Capitulum] either of a smooth Surface, or echinated after the manner of Xanthium. Their Calices are divided into Five Segments, their Flowers like those of the precedent Kind, but less, their Leaves either entire only nicked in the Edges, resembling the Leaves of Hornbeam, Elm or Mulberry, or divided less or more deeply into Lobes: Those of the Second Kind, or Indian Mallows, which he (66) he calls by the Name of Althaeae, bring forth Seeds either angulose or round, in Vessels divided into Five Cells, more or fewer, of different Form and Magnitude; having malvaceous Flowers and Calyces; leaves alternately situate, some whole, some divided into Lobes, some deeply laciniated. Another Remark he gives us concerning the Plants, called by the distinct Names of Apocyna or Dogsbanes, Asclepias's or Swallow-worts, and Neria or Rose-bayes, which Three he reduces to one Kind; the Characteristic whereof he makes Siliquae, or Cods of one Piece, opening long-ways, and containing Seeds piled one upon another imbricatim, each having a long appendant Filament of Down. For whereas some make the Difference between these to be, that the Swallow-worts have single Cods succeeding each Flower, but the Dogs-banes and Nerias or Rose-bayes double; and that the Neria are shrubby or arborescent Plants, containing a Limpid or Yellowish Juice, whereas the Apocyna yield a Milk: He shews that these Notes are not proper to one Kind, but agree promiscuously to all the rest. For sometimes the Swallow-worts bear single Cods; he might have said always according to the Intention of Nature; and on the contrary, the Apocyna do not always bear double Cods, but sometime solitary or single. Neither doth Nerium only grow up to the Magnitude and Stature of a Tree, or contain a limpid yellow Juice, but also some sorts of Apocyna; neither doth Swallow-wort only yield a limpid watry Juice, but some sorts of Apocyna also. Besides though this Juice in Swallow-wort be limpid in the beginning of Summer, yet towards Autumn it grows thick and Milky; as Fab. Columna hath observed. ~ these Apocyna, which are very numerous, he gives us a Catalogue, containing both those observed by himself, and those described by others, which he distinguishes ~ Two Kinds, 1. Erect. 2. Scandent. 3. He (67) 3. He gives us an Enumeration of such Plants as may be comprehended under the general Name of Aron, the Characteristick whereof he makes to be a Bacciferous Plant, having a monopetalous cucullate Flower; whereof there are Four sorts called by the Names of Aron, Arisarum, Dracontium and Colocasia. Arisarum differs from Arum in being less and slenderer in all its parts. Colocasia from both, in having smooth, umbilicate Leaves, without any Spots; the Foot-stalk inserted not in the end, but in the middle of the Leaf, after the manner of the Cotolydonei; Flowers sometimes single, sometimes more than one proceeding out of the same folliculate Foot-stalk; a Style thicker and shorter than Aron, and terminating in a slender Point. Dracontium differs from Arum and the rest, in having a Leaf deeply laciniated or divided into many Jaggs. X. 