(378) Microscopical Observations of Mr. Leewenhoeck, concerning the Optic Nerve, communicated to the Publisher in Dutch, and by him made English. HAving acquainted Dr. Schravesande, that I could perceive no cavity in the Optic Nerve, he told me, that Galen had on a clear Sun shiny day seen a hollowness therein, encouraging me to view that Nerve again with more attention. I took therefore, afresh, eight distinct Optic Nerves, and observed, that after those Nerves had been but a little while cut off from the Eye, the filaments, of which they are made up, did shrink up, which shrinking cannot be so much on the external surface or coat of the Nerve, as 'tis of the filaments that lie within the same: And upon this shrinking up, a little pit comes to appear about the middle of the Nerve; and 'tis this pit in all probability, that Galen took for a cavity. This I have remarked on all occasions. Having lately viewed again an Optic Nerve, I not only saw the lately-mentioned little pit, but noted also several other places sunk in, as if each filament had been in the midst drawn inwards, after the manner by me described elsewhere. I have also found, that this Nerve, when I let it be dried, was 3/4 less in thickness than before; so much of it being dried away. These Observations invited me to endeavour to dry an Optic Nerve, and to take care, that the same in its drying all at once, might retain (as much as was possible) the same roundness and thickness all over, as the Nerve had when it was first taken out of the Eye; considering that if there were a hollowness in it, it would then discover it self. Having then dried such a Nerve, and made a transverse segment thereof, I not only saw in it a hole, but very many, which made it resemble a Leathern Sive, wherein are big and small hales, only with this difference, that the holes in the Nerve were not round(no more than they are not all of the same bigness) nor so regularly posited by one another, as the holes in a Sive are: But this piece of the Optic Nerve, together with the holes therein, is more like a piece of Parchment in which are made holes close unto one another, and the same moistned, and so stretcht out, whereby the holes in the Parchment keep not that roundness, which they had before moistening. These holes or cavities being in the dried Nerve, I am of (379) of the same opinion still (as I was before) that the nerve or fibres are made up of soft fluid globuls, and that these gobuls by drying the Nerve are most of them exhaled. I here thought with my self, whether every one of these hollownesses might not have been a filament in the Nerve; and besides, that 'twas needless, there should be a cavity in the Optic Nerve, through which the Animal Spirits, representing the species or images in the Eye, might pass into the brain. But I imagined it might be performed, for example, after this manner; viz. I represent to my self a tall Beer-glass full of Water: This Glass I imagine to be one of the filaments of the Optic Nerve, and the Water in the Glass to be the globuls of which the filaments of that Nerve are made up, and then, the Water in the Glass being toucht on its surface with the finger, that to this contact did resemble the action of a visible object upon the Eye, whereby the outermost globuls of the fibres in the Optic Nerve next to the Eye are toucht. This contact of the Water made by the finger cannot be said to touch and move only the surface of the Water, but we must also grant, that all the water in the Glass is moved thereby, and that even the bottom of the Glass comes to suffer, and to be more pressed by it, than it was before the finger touched the Water, and that also all the parts of Water are moved thereby. This motion then of the Water, said to be made by the contact of the finger, I imagine to be like the motion of a visible object made upon the soft globuls, that lie at the end of the Optic Nerve next the Eye, which outermost globuls do communicate the like motion to the other globuls so as to convey it to the Brain. I have put before my Microscope a piece of such a dried Optic Nerve of a Cow, and how it appeared, you will see by the picture hereby transmitted unto you. A, B, C, D is the circumference of the Optic Nerve, which did not dry round-ways,but somewhat oblong on the side G, D. E, and all the places that are left white and lucid, are cavities in the dried Nerve, and which I imagine to have been filaments, and out of which, for the greatest part, the soft globuls have been exhaled. F, are particles or globuls, which are in the little holes of the filaments in many places, and such as have not been exhaled: Of which some do lie on the side of the hollownesses, others lie round D d d 2 about (380) about a cavity, others lie cross a cavity, as G. All these particles were eminently transparent. About A,B,C,D,there are near the edge of the Nerve some transparent winding stroaks. Tran: No: 117: Fig.1. A E F F E E E G F E E F F E E F F F E G E 