A Relation, Concerning the Sal-Gemme-Mines in Poland; communicated by a Curious Gentleman of Germany, who, some years since, descended himself into those Mines, to the depth of 200 Fathoms, and was led about in them for the space of three hours. THE Mines of Sal-Gemme in Poland, a mile distant from Cracovia, near the small Town of Wilizka, which (the Church excepted) is altogether digged hollow under ground, (2000) ground, hath Eight descents, of which the two chief, being in the Town it self, are those through which the Salt is drawn up; the other two do serve for letting down Timber and other necessaries. These descents, or holes, are five square, four or five foot long, and as broad, lined downwards thorough with Timber. Above, is a great Wheel, with a strong rope, of the thickness of a lusty arm, drawn about by a Horse, like in a Hors-mill. He that will descend, must cover himself with a Frock, and have another man, that fastens another rope to the aforesaid big rope, and having so tyed it about himself as to sit in it, takes one in his lap and holds him fast about; whereupon the big rope being let somewhat down, another fastens likewise a piece of rope to the other thick rope, and does like the former, seating himself in it, and taking and clasping another man in his lap, and being also let down a little way gives place to others to do the like; in which manner, thirty, fourty and more persons may be let down all at once; of whom the first having touch't the ground, steps out and goes aside, the rest following him and doing the like. And thus they descend to the depth of 100 Fathoms. But then they take a Lamp, and lead people about by strange passages and Meanders, still more and more descending, till they come to certain Ladders, by which they go down an 100 Fathoms deeper, where there are double passages and holes one above another, in a abundance; for the Mine-men dig on still, and cut out every where and on all sides, as long as the Salt-vein lasteth, and Salt is found; but the Vein being lost, and no more Salt appearing in one place, they search for other Salt-veins; whence come so many holes and passages out of one into another. The great holes, to secure both the Town above,and the work below from falling in, are very carefully filled out and supported by strong and well-compacted Timber; of which there is enough in those Works to build a big Town with. Out of these Mines they dig and cut out three sorts of Salt; one is common, course and black; the second somewhat (2001) what finer and whiter; the third, very white, and clear like Chrystal. The course and black Salt is cut out in great pieces, roundish, and three Polonian Ells long, and one Ell thick, which costs fifty to seventy Polonian Florins. Mean time the inhabitants of Cracow have a priviledge, whereby a certain number of pieces is to be deliver'd to them, eight such Florins the piece. The great pieces lye at Cracow about the Streets, before the doors of the Citizens; as also in the Country, in the small Towns and Villages, and before the Forts and houses of the Nobility; Where the Cattel, passing to and fro, lick of those Saltstones; which afterwards by Mills and other Engines are grownd and beaten small for use. The Colour of these Salt-stones is Darkish gray, with some mixture of Yellow. The Instruments, wherewith they are digg'd and cut out, have almost all German names with Polonian terminations; for, when this Salt-work was first found, (which is now above four hundred years ago) the Mine-men, that first began to work in it, were Germans; whence the Poles have retain'd those names of the Tools, but given them Polish terminations. These Salt-works belong to the King of Poland, who appoints and maintains the Officers of them; and 'tis one of his best Royal Revenues, amounting to considerable sums of moneys. There is no less than a thousand men, that are constantly employed in these Mines; and there was then a provision of Salt, valued at two Millions. There are in these Works three Horses, that stay always below having their Stable and other necessaries there: they carry the Salt from the Places, where 'tis cut and digg'd out, to those; whence 'tis by the abovemention'd Wheel and Ropes drawn up, by a Horse above ground, going round about. The Horses, after they have been a while under-ground, grow blind from the sharpness of the Salt; and all the three, which then laboured there, were quite blind; and one of them, that had been longest in those Mines, had the hoofs of his feet grown as long again, as they are usually, so that each hoof was near a span long. This (2002) This Salt-work hath also beneath it certain Salt-springs, whence the Saltwater is by Channels conveyed to several places, where 'tis boyled to Salt. But there is yet another Mineral Salt-work in Poland, viz. at Bochna; but not so well order'd, as the former. Besides there are divers other places in Poland, and in Russia also, which yield Salt; as at Holitz, Colomeja, Solum, Pintz, Oswentz, &c. In the Podolian desert, near the River Boristhenes, is a Salt-lake, whose water is by the heat of the Sun wasted, and turn'd to Salt, so that the people there ride into it with Horses and Waggons, like unto Ice, and cut it into pieces, and carry it away; as the Polish Historian Cromerus at large relateth; who also affirms, that in the aforesaid Salt-work at Bochna they find a Frozen substance, which by them is called Carbuncle, used by the people to purge their Bodies, by grating and drinking it in a convenient vehicle. 