PIH ILOS O P H ICA L OF THE R O YAL SOCIETY OF LON DO No FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXLIII. PART I. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET. MDCCCXLIII . ADVERTISEMENT. THE Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume; the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued. But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors. It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, a 2 E iv upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they received them, are to be, considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions, and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too. lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each year, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.In the British Dominions. The King's Library. The Admiralty Library. The Radcliffe Library, Oxford. The Royal Geographical Society. The United Service Museum. The Royal College of Physicians. The Society of Antiquaries. The Linnean Society. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Society for the Encouragement of Arts. The Geological Society. The Horticultural Society. The Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Asiatic Society. The Royal Society of Literature. The Medical and Chirurgical Society. The London Institution. The Entomological Society of London. The Zoological Society of London. The Institute of British Architects. The Institution of Civil Engineers. The Cambridge University Philosophical Society. The Royal Society of Edinburgh. The Royal Irish Academy. The Royal Dublin Society. The Asiatic Society at Calcutta. The Royal Artillery Library at Woolwich. The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Madras. The Observatory at Paramatta. The Observatory at Edinburgh. Denmark. The Royal Society of Sciences at Copenhagen. The Royal Observatory at Altona. France. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Toulouse. The Ecole des Mines at Paris. The Geographical Society at Paris. The Entomological Society of France.The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Geological Society of France. The Jardin des Plantes, Paris. Germany. The University at Gottingen. The Coesarean Academy of Naturalists at Bonn. The Observatory at Manheim. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Munich. Italy. The Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts, at Milan. The Italian Society of Sciences at Modena. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Turin. Switzerland. The Societe de Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. at Geneva. Belgium. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Brussels. Netherlands. The Royal Institute of Amsterdam. The Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy at Rotterdam. Spain. The Royal Observatory at Cadiz. Portugal. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Lisbon. Prussia. 'The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. Russia. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. The Imperial Observatory at Pulkowa. Sweden and Norway. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm. The Royal Society of Sciences at Drontheim. United States. The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston. The Library of Harvard College. The Observatory at Washington. The ffty Foreign Members of the Royal Society. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within two years of the date of publication.In the British Domi nions. The King's Library. The Board of Ordnance. The Royal Society. The Savilian Library, Oxford. The Library of Trinity College, Cambridge. The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The University of Aberdeen. The University of St. Andrews. The University of Dublin. The University of Edinburgh. The University of Glasgow. The Observatory at Oxford. The Observatory at Cambridge. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Paramatta. The Observatory at Madras. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Royal Society, Edinburgh. The Observatory, Trevandrum, East Indies. The Astronomical Institution, Edinburgh. The President of the Royal Society. TheLowndes's Professor ofAstronomyCambridge. The Plumian Professor of Astronomy, Cambridge. Francis Baily, Esq. Thomas Henderson, Esq. of Edinburgh. L. Holland, Esq., Lombard Street. Sir John William Lubbock, Bart., V.P. and Treas. R.S. Captain W. H. Smyth, R.N. of Cardiff. Sir James South, Observatory, Kensington.In Foreign Countries. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm. The Royal Society of Sciences at Upsal. The Board of Longitude of France. The University of G6ttingen. The University of Leyden. The Academy of Bologna. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston. The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The Observatory at Altona. The Observatory at Berlin. The Observatory at Breslau. The Observatory at Brussels. The Observatory at Cadiz. The Observatory at Coimbra. The Observatory at Copenhagen. The Observatory at Dorpat. The Observatory at Helsingfors. The Observatory at K6nigsberg. The Observatory at Manheim. The Observatory at Marseilles. The Observatory at Milan. The Observatory at Munich. The Observatory at Palermo. The Observatory at Paris. The Observatory at Seeberg. The Observatory at Vienna. The Observatory at Tubingen. The Observatory at Turin. The Observatory at Wilna. Professor Bessel, of Kinigsberg. The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Bowden College, United States. The Library of Harvard College. The Waterville College, United States. ROYAL MEDALS. HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, has been graciously pleased to approve of the following regulations for the award of them: That the Royal Medals be given for such papers only as have been presented to the Royal Society, and inserted in their Transactions. rhat the triennial Cycle of subjects be the same as that hitherto in operation: viz. 1. Astronomy; Physiology, including the Natural History of Organized Beings. 2. Physics; Geology or Mineralogy. 3. Mathematics; Chemistry. That, in case no paper, coming within these stipulations, should be considered deserving of the Royal Medal, in any given year, the Council have the power of awarding such Medal to the author of any other paper on either of the several subjects forming the Cycle, that may have been presented to the Society and inserted in their Transactions ; preference being given to the subjects of the year immediately preceding: the award being, in such case, subject to the approbation of Her Majesty. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1843 for the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1840, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1843. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1843 for the most important unpublished paper in Geology or Mineralogy, communicated to c viii ] the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1840, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1843. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1844 for the most important unpublished paper in Mathematics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1841, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1844. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1844 for the most important unpublished paper in Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1841, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1844. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1845 for the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1842, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1845. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1845 for the most important unpublished paper in Physiology, including the Natural History of Organized Beings, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1842, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1845. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1846 for the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1843 and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1846. The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1846 for the most important unpublished paper in Geology or Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the termination of the Session in June 1843, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1846. C O N T E N T S. I. On certain improvements on Photographic Processes described in a former Communication, and on the Parathermic Rays of the Solar Spectrum. By Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL, Bart., K.I., F.R.S., Sc.; in a Letter addressed to S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Esq., Sec. RAS. Communicated by S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Esq. page 1 II. Researches on the Decomposition and Disintegration of Phosphatic Vesical Calculi, and on the Introduction of Chemical Decomponents into the Living Bladder. By S. ELLIOTT HOSKINS, M.D. Communicated by P. M. ROGET, M.D., Sec. R.S.& 7 III. Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Eighteenth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. Chiem. RoyallIstitution, Crr. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Gbttingen, Modena, Stockholm, Ssc. $c. 17 IV. Spermatozoa observed within the Mammiferous Ovum. By MARTIN BARRY, M.D., F.R.SS. L. and E. 33 V. Observations on certain cases of Elliptic Polarization of Light by Reftexion. By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S., F.R.A.S., Savilian Profrssor of Geomethy in the University of Oxford .35 VI. On the Laws of Individual Tides at Southampton and at Ipswich. By G. B. AIRY, Esq.5 M.A., F.R.S., Astronomer Royal. 45 VII. Tide Observations at Otaheite, or Tahiti. By Captain Sir E. BELCHER, R.N. Communicated by Captain BEAUFORT, R.N., F.R.S., *c.55 rHILOSOPTIICAL T RA N SAC T I ON S OF THE ROYAL SOCIET Y OF L O N D O N FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXLIII. PART II. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET. MDCCCXLIII .ADJUDICATION of the MEDALS of the ROYAL SOCIETY for the year 1843 by the PRESIDENT and COUNCIL. The COPLEY MEDAL to M. JEAN BAPTISTE DUMAS, for his late valuable researches in Organic Chemistry, particularly those contained in a series of memoirs on Chemical Types and the Doctrine of Substitution, and also for his elaborate investigations of the Atomic Weights of Carbon, Oxygen, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and other elements. The ROYAL MEDAL, in the department of Physics, to Professor JAMES DAVID FORBES, F.R.S., for his Paper entitled "On the Transparency of the Atmosphere, and the Law of Extinction of the Solar Rays in passing through it," published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842. The other ROYAL MEDAL, not having been awarded in the department of Mineralogy and Geology, was awarded in that of Physics to Professor CHARLES WHEATSTONE, F.R.S., for his Paper entitled, " An Account of several new Instruments and Processes for determining the Constants of a Voltaic Circuit," published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1843. CON T EN TS. VIII. On the Gas Voltaic Battery.-Experiments made with a view of ascertaining the rationale of its action and its application to Eudiometry. By W. R. GROVE, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Prof Exp. Phil., London Institution. . . . page 91 IX. Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism.-NTo. IV. By Lieut.-Colonel EDWARD SABINE, R.A., F.R.S. 113 X. Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism.-No. V. By Lieut.-Colonel EDWARD SABINE, R.A., F.B.S. 145 XI. On the Organ of Hearing in Crustacea. By ARTHUR FARRE, M.D., F.R.S. 233 XII. On the Structure, Relations, and Development of the Nervous and Circulatory Systems, and on the Existence of a Complete Circulation of the Blood in Vessels, inZ Myriapoda and Macrourous Jrachnida.-First Series. By GEORGE NEWPORT, Esq., President of the Entomological Society of London, Member of the Ro(yal College of Surgeons, and Corresponding Member of the Philomathic Society of Paris. Communicated by P. XI. ROGET, M.D., Sec. R.S., SSc. . 243 XIII. THE BAKERIAN LECTURE.-An Account of several new Instruments and Processes for determining the Constants of a Voltaic Circuit. By CHARLES WHEATSTONE, Esq., F.B.S., Professor of Experimental Philosophy in King's College, London, Corresponding Member of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, &jc. . . . 303 XIV. On the Respiration of the Leaves of Plants. By WILLIAM HASLEDINE PEPYS, Esq., F.R.S. 329 Index .333 APPENDIX. Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal S<ociety, by order of the President and Council. 