(45) II. Part of a Letter from Mr. Edward Floyd, Cim. Ashm. Oxon. To Dr. M. Lister, giving an Account of Locusts lately observed in Wales. S I R, YOU have probably been already informed from some other Parts of the Kingdom, of swarms of Locusts that have lately appeared on our British Coasts. However because I am not certain that they have been observed elsewhere, I shall take this Occasion of giving you what Account I can at present, of some that have been seen in Wales. As far as I have been yet informed, they were first seen on the 20th. of October, scattered about the Fields in Marthery Parish, Pembrokeshire, where they were generally taken notice of, at firit, because of the unseasonableness of the time for Grashoppers; but afterwards, for that upon further Examination, they sound them distinct from our English Grashoppers, in bigness, colour, &c. I could not learn that any of them have been seen flying in that Country; but from North Wales I am informed that two vast swarms of them had been seen in the Air not far from Dol-gelheu, a Market-down of Merionydh shire. I cannot assure you of the time when these slying Locusts were observed, but by the date of my Friend's Letter, &c. I guess that it was near the same time that those others of Pembroke-shire had been taken notice of in the Fields. What part of the World these Creatures should come from, I must leave to your Conjecture; in the mean time I can assure you that they are of the very same Species with same African Locusts in my Custody in the Museum; for which (and many other valuable CurioH Sities) (46) Sities we are obliged to that very Inquisitive and Ingenious Gentleman, Mr. J. Aubrey, S. R. S. who received them some Years since from Tangier. As yet I have but one sent me out of Wales, which you may Command if you please, for I expect shortly more of them. This Pilgrim-Locust I call, Locusta erratica, alis ichthyocollae adinstar pellucidis, reticulatis maculis conspersis. It is length (from the Head to the tips of the Wings) three Inches and 1/4, of a reddish colour all over, except the Wings. As to the Head and Caputium, it resembles the Fourth Figure of Moufetus. The Eyes are prominent and very large, somewhat of the form and bigness of Gromwel-seeds, of a reddish colour,elegantly streaked. The Antennae are broken so that I can say nothing of the length of them: They are about the bigness of a Hog's bristle, and curiously geniculated. As to the Legs, the first pair are not quite an Inch long; the second, somewhat above that length; but the third two Inches and 1/4. These hind-legs are very beautiful; for the Thighs are hexangular, and elegantly scaled on the outside, with a black List extended lengthways through the midst of them. The shanks are of a lively red colour, adorned on the hind-part with two orders of small sharp prickles, placed not opposite to each others, but alternately. The Wings are about three Inches long, resembling very much those of the larger Libellae, or Dragon-flies, but all over garnished (the outer Wings at least) with reticulated black spots. I see not much reason to doubt but that these are the very same Species of <inferred>Locusts</inferred>, so Famous in History for their wandring over, and depopulating whole Regions. In Pliny, Lib. xi c. xxix. we find these words, ---Solemque obumbrant solicite spectantibus populis ne suas operiant terras. Sufficiunt quippe vires; & tanquam parum sit maria transisse, immensos tractus permeant, diraque messibus contegunt nube, multa contactu adurentes; Omnia vero (47) vero morsu erodentes, & fores quoque tectorum. Italiam ex Africa maxime coortae, infestunt, saepe populo ad Sibyllina coacto remedia confugere, inopiae metu. Now whether this multa contactu adurentes makes any thing for the firing of the Hay-ricks I question. For I should be apt to understand those words, as if they meant only Exarefaction, and perhaps Poysoning, not down right Firing or Combustion. See the following letter, Numb. 4 Julius Obsequens in libro prodigiorum, p. 69. Edit. Bas. 1599. Locustarum ingentia agmina in Africa, quae a vento in mari dejectae, fluctibusque ejectae, odore intolerabili Cyrenis mortifero vapore gravem pestilentiam fecerunt pecori, hominumque DCCC millia consumpta tabe, proditum est. I was suspicious of this at the very first reading of Mr. Jones his Letter, and therefore writ to him the very same day I writ to you and Mr. Ray, to examine the Sea Algae and Fuci for dead Locusts. The like Account also Mouf. cites out of Otho Frisingensis. ~ Tandem vero in Mare Britannicum sublatae ventorum vi, fluctibus obruebantur. Sed aestu Oceani in litus rejectae aerem infecerunt, pestemque anteacta fame non minus saevam intulerunt. And which comes nearer to our purpose, in Mouf. p. 123. Postea per Germaniam errantes ad Mediolanensem usque agrum iter ceperunt,eoque depasto in Poloniam & Silesiam <inferred>revertebanture</inferred>. Tandem Mense Novmori (tam diu enim vixerant) ut frigoris vi tabefactae maximum faetorem excitarunt, & nisi suibus aprisque Sylvestribus pabulo fuissent, non minus peste gravissima quam fame tam Germanos quam Itatos affecisset. But in Wales there are no Creatures to devour them, unless the Badgers and Crows may take off some. H 2 III. The 