246 a XVt Ot the Identity of Columbium and Tantalum. By Wile 1iam Hyde Wollaston, M. D. Sec. R. S. Read June 8, 18o9 ITHIN a short time after the discovery of columbium by Mr. L{ATCHETT in 8ioi i a metallic substance was also discovered in Sweden by . M EEBERG,1t differing from every metal then ..known< to hirn; and accordingly he described the properties by which it might be distinguished from those which it most nearly resembled. But although the Swedish metal has retained the name of Tantalum given to if by M. EKEBERG, a reasonable degree of doubt has been entertained by che. mists, whether these two authors had not in fact described the same substances; and it has been regretted that the discoverers themselves, who would have been most able to remove the uncertainty, had not had opportunities of comparing their respective minerals, or the products of their analyses. As I have lately obtained small specimens of the two Swedish minerals, tantalite and yttro-tantalite, from which I could obtain tantalum, and was very desirous of comparing its properties with those of columbium, Mr. HATCHETT very obligingly furnished me with some oxide of the latter, which remained in his possession.0 Phil. Trans. for I8 oz t Vetenkaps Academiens Handling-ar. 10z, p. 6S -,owrnal dasc7in es, ol. Xffp. 245. Dr. WOLLASTON On tiIyd i / C3 C. 247 The resemblance was such in my first trials as to induce me to :;deavour to procure a further supply of columbium, and by application to the Trustees of the British Museum, I was allowed to detach a few grains from the original spe-. cirnen analysed by Mr. HATCHETT. Notwithstanding the quantity employed inl my analyses was thus limit ed I have, nevertheless, by proportionate economy of the materials been enabled to render my experiments suf; ficiently numerous, and have found so many points of agree-. ment in the modes by which each of these bodies can or cannot be dissolved or precipitated, as to prove very satisfac. torily that these American and Swedish specimens in fact contain the same metal ; and since the re-agents I have employed are in the hands of every chemist, the properties which I shall enumerate are such as will be most useful in the practical examination of any other minerals in which this metal may be found to occur. In appearance the columbite is so like tantalite that it is extremely difficult to discern a difference that can be relied upon, The external surface, as well as the colour and lustre of the fracture , are precisely the same; but columbite breaks rather more easily by a blow, and the fracture of it is less uniform, appearing in some parts irreguilarly shattered; net vertheless, when the two are rubbed against each other, the hardness appears to be the same, and the colour of the scratch has the same tint Of very dark brown. By analysis also, these bodies are found to consst of the same three ingredients; a white oxide, combined with iron and manganese. Either of these minerals, when reduced to powder, is very K k J>j'M L," ~ Dr. WOLLASTON 0 the Identity readily acted upon by potash ; but as the iron contain1e in them is not affected by alkalies, it appeared better to add a snall proportion of borax. Five grains of columbite being mixed with twenty-five grains of carbonate of potash and ten grains of borax, were fused together for a few minutes, and found to be perfectly incorporated. The colour was of a deep green, from the quantity of manganese present. The mass when cold could be softened with water, and a portion of the oxide could be so dissolved; but it seemed preferable to employ dilute mut riatic acid, which, by dissolving all other ingredients excepting columbium, left the oxide nearly white, by the removal of iron and manganese that been combined with it. The nuriatic solution having been poured off and neutrallized with carbonate of ammonia, the iron was then separated by succinate of amnmonia; after which the manganese was precipitated by prussiate of potash. The products thus obtained from five grains of columbite, after each had been heated to redness, were nearly, White oxide 4 grains Oxide of iron -3i Oxide of maganese 4; but it cannot be supposed that proportions deduced from experiments made on so small a scale can be entirely depended upon, although the properties of bodies may be so discerned, nearly as well as when larger quantities are employed. An equal weight of tantalite taken from a specimen, of which the specific gravity of 7,8, yielded, by the same treatment, of Col/tunbzbiu and Tantalum. 249 White oxide 4 grains Oxide of iron 2 Oxide maganese Thal-e w1-iit1C:. oxides obtained from each of these minerals, are reuarkabiBle for their insolubility in the three common minerat ,cids, as both Mr. HATCHETT and M. EKEBERG have observed. In muiriatic acid they cannot be said to be absolutely inso'Lible; but they are not sufficiently soluble foL the purposes of analysis. InA nitric acid they are also nearly, if not perfectly, insoluble. In sulphuric acid, when concentrated and boiling, the oxide of columbium may be dissolved in small quantity, and so also may the oxide obtained from tantalite. The proper solvent, as has been observed by Mr. IHATCHETT and by M. EKEBEBG, is potash; and as it is not required to be n its caustic state, I employed the crystallized carbonate of otash on account of its purity and uniformity. Of this salt about eight grains seemed requisite to be fused with one of the oxide obtained from either of these minerals to render it soluble in water. Soda also combines with the oxide, and moay be said to disa olve it ; but a far larger proportion ot this alkali iS snece sary, and a larger quantity of water. And althou5gh a solution may have been effected that is transparent while hot, it very soon becomes opaque in coolin g and fihally almost the whole of the oxide subsides combined with a portion of the soda in a eate nearly insoluble. 15( Dr. WOLLASTON on the Identity When a solution of -the white oxide, obtained from either of these minerals, has been made, as above, with potash, the whole may be prec pitated by the addition of an acid, and will not be redissolved by a'n excess of sulphuric acid, of nitric, ofmuriatic, succinic, or acetic acids. But there is a further agreement in the properties of these two mi rals, which a1 pears above all others to establish their identity for though they are both so nearly insoluble by any excess of the mineral acids, yet they are each completely dissolved by oxalic acid, by tartaric acid, or by citric acid; and the solution of each is subject to the same limitations; for if the precipitateL has been dried, it is become intractable., and can crcely e dissolved againtill aftr a second fusion with potlaah. to the alkaine sokuIon of ither of ftien th ere be aIed inusion of galls, pruss te of potas., or hydros lpb'uret of potash, no precipitate .occrs; but when a suihcient quantity of acid s ilas been added to neutralize tbre redundaJnt a'lkalitYe infui i of galls J.RIA flke occasionan orange precip)itate ; ot prussite of potash causves no prec cita nor does tl hyD Is phuurct precipitate the oxide, alt'ho 'ch the solution inay be come turbid from, preclpitatioi of sulphur by a redtundant acid. The characteristY c precipitanti of columbinur isi conse quently the inusion of galls; but in the em ployment of this test cer tain prtectutions are nec essary. For as an excess of potash may prevent the appearance of this precipitate, so also rnlay a snall excess of oxalic or tartaric acids prevent precipitiation or dissolve a precIiptate already formed. A larger excess o?SX Citric acid seemed reql site for that purpose, and would alIs dissolve the gallat of columbm u, In each case thie pireci of Columbiumn ad Tantalum4 tate may be made to appear by neutralizing the redundant wclid; and for this purpose carbonate of ammonia should be employed: for although pure ammona' has no power of dis solving the oxi'de alone, yet the gallat seemed to be perfectly re-dissolved by that alkali. When infuSion of galls is poured upon the white oxide recently precipitated, and still moist, it combines readily and forms the orange-^coloured coimpound. Prussiate of potash occasioned no change in an oxide that had been purified by a second fusion with potash ; but it appeared to dissolve a small portion of the oxide, as infusion of galls, pouredd into lthe clear liquor, occasioned a cloudy prehipitate of an orange colour, though no such precipitate took place when tie lifusion was mixed with the same prussiate alone. Hydrosulphuret of potash being added to the oxide, and heated upon it, impalired the whiteness of its appearance, and seemed to detect the remains of some impurity which had not vet been removed by other meanss; but no appearance indicated the for-mation of a sulphuret of olumbiLui From a careful repetition of these experiIents upon each of the oxides., I see no reason to doubt of their perfect agree, ient in al1 t-heir chemical properties but there is nevertheless very remarkable c i rece in the specific gravities of the two minerals ronm bhih they are extracted. The spo Ccific gravity of columbite was ascertai-ed by Mr. :IATCHET to bC ,)918; that of tantalite was found by M. EIOEBERG to be 7b953, aid I havy every reason to suppose vir results corret, sin ce a a agnint5}t of the former aic. sp~i tial to b V5,87, whil a `Wcime of tantalite, V52 Dr. OLLA5TOX O the Identzty, _ weighed at the same times, vas as much as. 7,8. 1 should' however, observe, that the specific gravities of three other fragments borrowed for this purpose were not so high, that of one being 7,65, of another 7,5 and of a third so low as 7,15. It Is evident that no variation of mere proportion of the ingredients can account for an increase of specific gravity from 5,918 to 7,95 , which are in the ratio of 3 to;; for S'ine columbite contains four fifths oxide, if the whole remaining one fifth part in weight of that oxide could be supposed added to the same bulk, without diminution of the quantities of iron and manganese, the specific gravity would not then exceed 7,1; and even if a weight equal to one third of the whole were thuis added, without increase of bulk, still the aggregate would not quite equal the heaviest tantalite in specific gravity; but, on the contrary, the quantity of white oxide in this specimen certainly does not amount to six sevenths, and probably is not more than five sixths of the whole mass. IThe only chemical difference, by which this circumstance could be explained, would be the state of oxidation, which my experiments cannot appreciate; but it may also arise in rt from actual cavities in the mass of columbite, and in part from the state or mode of aggregation 