A Relation of a Child which remained Twenty six years in the Mothers Belly. Taken out of the Journal des Scavans; being the Extract of a Letter written from Tolouse 22. June to the Author of that Journal, by Monsieur Bayle, M.D. THe said Author premises, that there having been many different Reports of this matter: Monsieur Bayle took the pains to give an exact account, as well of the Infant, as of what accidents befell the Mother during her being big with It. Taking also the Figure of the Infant, as it was seen of the whole Town. Margaret Mathew, Wife of John Puget, Shearman, being with Child 1652. perceived about the end of the ninth Mouth of her bearing, such pains as Women usually have, when about to fall in Labour. Her Waters also brake: but no Child follow'd. For the space of Twenty years, she perceived this Child to stir: with many troublesom Symptoms accompanying. Which made her from time to time, to desire the Chirurgeon to open her Belly, and take out this grievous burthen. But for the six last years, she perceived not the Child to move. Being lately fall'n sick, she requested the Chirurgion to open her when she was dead. She died 18. June this year 1678. She was opened the next day, and a dead Child was found in her Belly, out of the Womb, no way joyned or fastened to it. The Head downward; the Buttocks hanging toward the left side; The Arms and Legs in the posture the Figure represents. 6 N 2 All (980) All the back part of this Child was covered with the Omentum; which was about two fingers thick, and stuck hard to divers parts of the Body of it, not to be separated without a Knife; which being done, very little blood issued. This Infant weighed Eight pounds Haverdupoyse. The Skull was broken into several pieces. The Brain of the colour and consistence of Oyntment of Roses. The Flesh red, where the Omentum stuck, other parts whitish, yellowish, and somewhat livid; except the Tongue, which had the natural softness aud colour. All the inward Parts were discolour'd with a blackishness, except the Heart, which was red; and without any issuing blood. The Forehead, Ears, Eyes and Nose, were cover'd with a Callous substance, as thick as the breadth of a finger: which being taken away, the parts appeared, as in the Figure. The Gums being cut, the Teeth appeared in the adultness of those in grown persons. The Body had no bad smell,though kept three days out of the Mothers Belly. The length of the Body from the Buttocks to the top of the Head, about II Inches. The Mother died about the Sixty fourth year of her Age. Trans. No. 139. 