A Relation Of anuncommon Accident in two Aged Persons. This was imparted by the above-mentioned Mr. Colepresse, who assures in his Letter, containing this Account, That the matter of factwas thorowly examined by himself, and that he was fully, and in all respects, satisfied of the truth thereof. The Relation of the one, is in these words. Joseph Shute Clerk, Parson of Mary (nigh Plymouth) in the County of Devon, aged 81 years, being a temperate man, and of an healthy constitution, having the in-most Grinder loose, and so remaining, perceived, that his mouth, about three Moneths since, was somewhat streightned; and upon inquiry into the cause of it, found, That he had a new Tooth (the third Grinder) being the innermost of the upper Jaw in the Right Cheek, which still remains firm. The Account of the other follows thus. Maria Stert of Benecliffe, in Plympton St. Mary (near Plymouth) in Devon, aged about 75 years, an healthy person, having had nine children, about the fortieth year of her age lost three of her upper (381) upper Incisores or Cutters, the other drawn out, and so remained Toothless, as to them, for about 25 years, when she perceived, that a new Tooth came forth (without any pain) next the Canini of the left Check: And about two years after,another Tooth grew out likewise without pain, close by the former. The first whereof, never came to above half the length of her former Cutters, the latter scatce breaking the skin: Both which yet proved serviceable, till about six weeks since, when she eating (no hard, crusty, or solid) Meat, that Tooth which came out first, fell down into her Mouth, without any loosness before hand perceived, or any pain; which had not a phang like other Cutters, but much less, and shorter. The other abides firm, aud serviceable. To the truth of these Relations, not onely the said Joseph Shute and Maria Stert, have put the one his name, the other her Mark, the third and seventh of January, 1666.but also Sir William Strode, and Mr. Colepresse have subscribed the same, as believing the Relation to be true. 