XVI, Observations and experiments on the mass of native iron 5ound in Brasil, By W. H. Wollaston, M. D. Sec. R. S. Read May 16, i8i6. ii rE preceding letter from Mr. MORNAY, relating to tile discovery of a mass of native iron in Bahia, was drawn up at my request, as a valuable addition to our stock of knowledge on that most curious subject; and I am in hope2 that the results of my own expertinents may contribute soaiething not uninteresting to the Society. The specimen of the iron with which Mr. MORNAY very liberally supplied me for experiment, though it necessarily bears marks of the hamminer by which it has been detached, presents also other surfaces, not only indicating that its texture is crystalline but showving also the forms in which it disposed to break, to be those of the regular octohedron an( tetrahedron, or rho boid consisting of these forms comb i ui In my own specimen, the crystalline surfaces npe ar have been the result of a process of oxidation, which -,,s penetrated the mass to a considerable depth in the direction Of its lamina; but in the specimen wvhich in th t p op ession of the Geological Society, the brilliant suraces th at h(ve y een occasioned by forcible spa(Tration frorn t}Xte original rz-vas-si, hibit also the same configurations, as are usual t I i >a t u r e of octohedral crystals, anrd are found in nvay Su rp1e -iative netals. The magnetic qualitics o une S gm -iL f i .mately 28 Dr. WOLLASTON ' expern Tnnts on the mass eanable us to appreciate rightly, those of the entire mass from which they have been detached; for though the mass, when tried upon the spot by Mr. MORNAY, gave indications of having distinct N. and S. poles, it is pretty clear that these were only so by induction, in consequence of position with respect to the magnetic meridian. For though the fragments are not in the least attractive as magnets, and have in themselves no polarity, they are precisely like aiiy other pieces of the best soft iron, and assume polarity instantly, according to the position in which they are held with respect to the magnetic axis of the earth. When a long fragment is held in a vertical position, its lower extremity being then within 2o0 of the dip of the N. magnetic pole, becomes N., and repels the N. pole of a magnetic needle suspended horizontally. But this power is instantly reversed by being suddenly inverted. So that the apparent contradiction between the observed polarity of the mass, and the seeming" want of it in the fragments, is thus completely removed. Although Mr. MORNAY reasonably expected that this iron would not differ from the many others now on record that have been found in various parts of the world, and from his experiments was led to infer the presence of nickel, it appeared desirable to ascertain this point with more precision than he had been enabled to do, and to determine also in what proportion this peculiar ingredient of meteoric bodies might be found to prevail. I believe the means which I am accustomed to employ for detecting the presence of nickel in native iron to be new, and may deserve to be described, on account of the very small .quantity of the iron required for this mode of examination. of native iron found in Brasil. 28 'Having filed from my specimen as much as Ijudged sufficient for my purpose, (which need not exceed x IO of a grain),, I dissolved it in a drop of nitric acid, and then evaporated the solution to dryness. A droop or two of pure ammonia was then added to the dried residuum-, and gently warmed upon it in order to dissolve any nickel that might be present. The transparent part of the fluid was then led by the end of a rod of glass to a small distance from the remaining oxide of iron, and the addition of triple prussiate of potash immediately detected the presence of nickel by the appearance of a milky cloud, which was not discernible by the same means from a similar quantity of common wrought iron tried at the same time. For the determination of the quantity of nickel I employed a different method. A piece of the iron weighing 5o grains having been dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid, the solution was evaporated to dryness. Ammonia was then added, and the solution again evaporated to dryness, in order that the oxide of iron might be rendered more dense, and more easily separated from the soluble portion. A fresh addition of ammonia then readily dissolved the nickel, and the solution after filtration appeared of a deep blue colour. A small quantity of sulphuric acid having then been added, the whole was again evaporated not merely to dryness, but with sufficient heat to expel the excess of ammonia, muriate of ammonia, and sulphate of ammonia. The remainder was sulphate of nickel which was then redissolved in water, and after being suffered to crystallize weighed 8,6 grains. Having found by experiment previously made for that purpose, MDCCCXVI. P p 284 Dr. WOLLASTON'S experfments on the mass that to grains of nickel give 44 grains of sulphate of nickel, I infer that 8,6 of the sulphate correspond to 1, of metallic nickel, which is nearly 4 per cent of the quantity of native iron taken for experiment. By an analysis conducted in a similar manner on 23 grains of the scaly flakes of oxide brought home by Mr. MORNAY, from the spot were the mass was found, I obtained Si grains of sulphate of nickel, which correspond to 7,o5 nickel, amount. ing to no more than 3,o6 per cent. of the oxidated crust taken for analysis. But, if we consider the weight which too parts of the metallic alloy would acquire by oxidation, we shall find the two experiments correspond with a degree of accuracy that may occasion more reliance to be placed on these experiments than they really deserve. 96 parts of iron in the state of black oxide will be combined with 28,3 oxygen and 4 nickel will take about .1i oxygen, so that i29i,4 of the crust will contain only 4 parts of metallic nickel, and loo ditto will contain 3,1, which scarcely exceeds the quantity actually found by trial From the presence of nickel in this mass we cannot but regard it as having the same meteoric origin with the various other specimens that have before been found ; and although in the spot whence it had been first removed, Mr. MORNAY discovered a bed of matter from which it appears, by analysis, that similar iron might be formed by art, it seems by far more probable, that an opposite change has really taken place, and that the whole of this supposed ore is the result of pro. of native ironfound in Brasil. 2835 gressive oxidation, during a series of years of which we have no other evidence, and affords the sole ground on which a conjecture could be formed of the very remote period at which this problematic body has fallen upon the earth. P p ! 