[1] I. An Account of an extraordinary Stream of Wind, which shot thro' Part of the Parishes of Termonomungan and Urney, in the County of Tyrone, on Wednesday October 11, 1752. by Wm. Henry, D. D. Rector of the Parish of Urney: Communicated by the right honourable the Lord Cadogan, F. R. S. THE air for the whole day was serene and calm; sometimes a gentle breeze from the south-east. About four of the clock in the afternoon, the sky seemed to open; and there was a flash of lightning from the south-east. In the space of half an hour after, there was heard thunder, as at a great distance, from the same point. About five the sky was a little overcast with clouds; but the air continued in a dead calm. On a sudden there was heard a violent rushing noise; the sky seemed to open, and emitted a flash of lightning, but no noise of thunder; and a stream of wind instantly ensued, the violence of which nothing could resist. Read Jan. 11. 1753. This stream of wind, so far as can be traced by the effects, arose from a glin called Allgolan, and continued its course for three miles from south-east to north-west. The violent current of it seemed to be confined to a space about 16 feet in breadth, and the whole body of the air in motion did not exceed sixty feet, as may be computed from some of the following particulars, which happened in the little A village [2] village of Lisnacloon in the parish of Termonomungan, and the edge of the parish of Urney. At the distance of a mile to the south-east of this village, it cut a line thro' several clamps of turf, which were standing in a bog, and tumbled down all the clamps in this line. Thence it cross'd the river Derge, in the same line, and dash'd up the water with great noise and violence, as was observed by John Kyle, who has mills on the river, and several others. Thence, in the same line, and at the space of half a mile, it took the village of Lisnacloon, where there are 13 dwelling-houses, beside officehouses, belonging to farmers and cottagers, scattered irregularly. 1st, It dashed down an hay-stack belonging to Wm. Montieth, which was the first object in its way; and stripped intirely twelve feet off the roof of his dwelling-house. 2dly, It knocked down Henry Carolan's turf-stack, and carried some of the turf above 300 yards over the cabbins into the fields. 3dly, At the distance of 69 paces, it took Henry Crawford's house. Full in the broadside of which, it stripped 59 feet, leaving each of the ends, above and below the stream of air, quite unmoved. This particular points out its utmost breadth. At the back of this house it overset an hay-rick, which stood in its line; but did not ruffle any of the corn-stacks, which stood within a few yards to the north side. 4. It knocked off eight feet of the roof of Solomon Folliot's kiln, which stood in its line. 5. It [3] 5. It levelled 55 feet of David Montieth's gardenditch. 6. It levelled, in the same direct line, Wm. Folliot the younger's hay-stack, which stood south-east from his house. 7. It burst with incredible violence thro' his cowhouse, and cut a passage of 16 feet quite thro' it, and carried some of the ribs of the house before it 400 yards into the field: The rest of the house was a little ruffled. His wife, who was gone into the cowhouse a minute before, was knocked down by one of the ribs falling. She declared, that it was a dead calm the minute before: when, on a sudden, she saw a flash of lightning, and heard and felt the violent storm; but heard no thunder. Old William Folliot, aged 93, who was walking in the field, at the back of the house, was blown down, and grievously bruised. He saw the lightning, but heard no thunder. Solomon Folliot, being in the same field (but out of the line, in which the stream of wind passed) felt no wind, but heard a mighty rushing noise, and saw the timber, thatch, turf, and dust of the houses, fly by him, at the distance of forty yards. He saw a flight of rooks dashed down in the same field. In this village are several other inhabited houses, both on the north and south sides of the course of this stream, none of which were in the least ruffled. The air continued still, among these houses; and the inhabitants stood astonished, on seeing the sudden devastation so near them. After passing this village, the stream was continued in the same line, but with less violence, to a A 2 large [4] large hill in the parish of Urney, which is called Muckle; and, on the north side of the hill, at the distance of a mile from Lisnacloon, burst open the door of John Ranking, a weaver, and broke down a web in his loom. As at this last place it entered a large bog, which is extended for three miles, it could be traced no farther. The time, in which this stream passed thro' the village of Lisnacloon, was about five minutes. It was succeeded immediately by a torrent of rain. Having been informed of this extraordinary phaenomenon, that I might have the more perfect knowlege of all particulars, I took with me two gentlemen, Dr. Michael Law, a physician of note, and the reverend Charles Rhea, on the 20th instant, from Strabane, and view'd and measur'd on the spot the course of this violent stream, as it appeared by the marks; and at the same time examined minutely the several inhabitants of the village of Lisnacloon, who were eye-witnesses of this fact; and from their united testimonies, and my own ocular observations, collected the above account. Given under my hand this 21 day of October, 1752. William Henry, D. D. Rector of the Parish of Urney. II. 