J STOR Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. (4004) A Serie's of Quere's propounded by Mr. Isaac Newton, to be determin'd by Experiments, positively and directly concluding his new Theory of Light and Colours; and here recommended to the Industry of the Lovers of Experimental Philosophy, as they mere generously imparted to the Publisher in a Letter of the said Mr. Newtons of July 8. 1672. IN the mean while give me leave, Sir, to insinuate,that I cannot think it effectual for determining truth, to examin the several waies by which Phaenomena may be explained, unless where there can be a perfect enumeration of all those waies. You know, the proper Method for inquiring after the properties of things is,to deduce them from Experiments.And I told you, that the Theory, which I propounded, was evinced to me, not by inferring 'tis thus because not otherwise, that is, not by deducing it only from a confutation of contrary suppositions, but by deriving it from Experiments concluding positively and directly. The way therefore to examin it is, by considering, whether the Experiments which I propound do prove those parts of the Theory, to which they are applyed; or by prosecuting other Experiments which the Theory may suggest for its examination. And this I would have done in a due Method; the Laws of Refraction being throughly inquired into and determined before the nature of Colours be taken into consideration. It may not be amiss to proceed according to the Series of these Quaeries; which I could wish were determined by the Event of proper Experiments; declared by those that may have the curiosity to examin them. 1. Whether rays, that are alike incident on the same Medium, have unequal refractions; and how great are the inequalities of their refractions at any incidence? 2. What is the Law according to which each ray is more or less refracted; whether it be that the same ray is ever refracted according to the same ratio of the sines of incidence and refraction; and divers rays, according to divers ratio's; or that the refraction of each ray is greater or less without any certain rule? That is, whether each ray have a certain degree of refrangibility according to which its refraction is performed; or is refracted without that regularity? 3. Where(5005) 3. Whether rays, which are endued with particular degrees of refrangibility, when they are by any means separated, have particular colours constantly belonging to them; viz. the least refrangible, Scarlet; the most refrangible, deep Violet; the middle, Sea-green; and others, other colours? And on the contrary? 4. Whether the colour of any sort of rays apart may be changed by refraction? 5. Whether colours by coalescing do really change one another to produce a new colour, or produce it by mixing only? 6. Whether a due mixture of rays, indued with all variety of colours, produces Light perfectly like that of the Sun,and which hath all the same properties, and exhibits the same Phaenomena? 7. Whether the component colours of each mixture be really changed; or be only separated, when from that mixture various colours are produced again by Resraction? 8. Whether there be any other colours produced by refraction than such, as ought to result from the colours belonging to the diversly refrangible rays by their being separated or mixed by that refraction? To determine by Experiments these and such like Quaere's which involve the propounded Theory, seems the most proper and direct way to a conclusion. And therefore I could wish all objections were suspended, taken from Hypotheses or any other heads than these two; Of shewing the insufficiency of Experiments to determine these Quaere's or prove any other parts of my Theory, by assigning the flaws and defects in my conclusions drawn from them; Or of producing other Experiments which directly contradict me, if any such may seem to occur. For if the Experiments, which I urge, be defective, it cannot be difficult to show the defects; but if valid, then by proving the Theory they must render all Objections invalid. So far this accurate Proposer; whose Method appearing to be most genuine and proper to the purpose it is propounded for, and deserving therefore to be considered and put to trial by Philosophers, abroad as well as at home; the Publisher, to invite and gratify Forraigners, was willing to deliver the above recited Extract of Mr. Newtons Letter in the language also of the Learned, as followeth; Zzzz 2 Ex(5006) Excerptum ex Isaaci Newtoni Epistola, nuper ad Editorem script,qua ipse genuinam suggerit Methodum, doctrinam suam d e Luc & Coloribus, antehac propositam,evincendi, subjecta certorum Quaesitorum, debitis Experimentis solvendorum, serie. LIceat mihi hac occasione tibi significare, nequaquam censere me, efficacem cam esse determinandae veritatis rationem,qua diversi examinantur modi, quibus Phaenomena explicari possunt, nisi ubi perfecta fuerit omnium istorum modorum Enumeratio. Nosti, genuinam proprietates rerum investigandi Methodum esse, qua illae ab Experimentis deducuntur. Ac jam ante tibi dixeram; Theoriam a me propositam evictam mihi fuisse, non quidem inferendo rem ita se habere quia haud se habeat aliter, i. e. non eam deducendo duntaxat a contrariarum suppositionum confutatione; sed ipsam ab Experimentis, positive & directe concludentibus, derivando. Vera itaque ratio eam examinandi haec erit, si consideremus scilicet, num Experimenta a me proposita illas Theoriae partes, quibus accommodantur, revera probent; vel si alia prosequamur Experimenta, quae ab ipsa Theoria ad examinandam cam suggerantur. Atque hoc ipsum Methodo genuina fieri velim; pervestigatis primum ac determinatis Legibus Refractionis, priusquam Colorum natura disquiratur. Praeter rem itaque hand fore crediderim,disquisitionem hanc ex sequentium Quaesitorum serie instituere; quae quidem ut a solertibus sagacibusque naturae Mystis pronunciatis Experimentorum Eventibus,dirimantur, in vot is quam maxime habeo. Ea sunt; Primo, Num radii, qui aequali incidenti a in idem medium incidunt,Refractiones habeant inaequales; quantaeque sint refractionum,quas illi subeunt, inaequalitates in quavis incidentia? Secundo, Quaenam ea Lex sit, juxta quam radius quilibet magis minusve refringitur? sune,quod idem radius semper refringatur secundum eandem rationem Sinuum Incidentiae & Refractionis; diversi autem radii, secundum rationes diversas? An vero, quod cujuslibet radii refractio major minorve sit absque ulla regula certa? Hoc est, Virum unusquisque radius certum babeat gradum Refrangibilitatis, juxta quem fiat ipsius refractio; an vero refringatur sine ista regularitate? Tertio, Num radii, certis gradibus refrangibilitatis praediti, quando,quo. demum cumque modo,secernuntur,certos obtineant colores ipsis proprios; puta radii minime omnium refrangibiles, Coccineum; maxime refrangibiles, saturum Violaceum; intermedii, sub-Viridem; alli, alios? Et e contra. Quarto, Num color cujusvis generis rediorum serosim existentium mutari possint Refractione? Qninto, Utrum colores coalescendo revera se invicem mutent ad praducendum colorem novum; an vero eum producant nonnisi se invicem commiscendo? Sexto, Num debita radiorum miscela, omnigena colorum varietate praedita, Lucem producat Solari luci simillimam; quaeque eaesdem omnixo proprietates obtineat,eademque phaenomena exhibeat? Septimo (5007) Septimo, Utrum componentes cujusvis miscelae colores rever a mutentur; an vero secernantur duntaxat, quando ex mixtura illa varii colores rursum producuntur per Refractionem? Octavo, Denturne ulli alii colores Refractione producti praeter cos,quos oriri oportet a Coloribus, ad radios diversimode refrangibiles pertinentibus, dum illi refractione ist a secernuntur vel miscentur? Per Experimenta determinare haec similiaue Quaesita, quae propositam Theoriam involvunt, maxime genuina directaque videtur ad Conclusionem via: Proindeque omnes velim Objectiones suspendi, quae ab Hypothesibus desumuntur ullisve Fontibus aliis, quam his duobus; quibus nempe vel osten, datur Experimentorum ad determinanda haec ~ probandasve ullas a.ias Theoriae meae partes insufficientia, hallucinationes defectusque in Conclusionibus meis inde deductis indigitando; vel alia producantur Experimenta, e diametro mihi opposita, si quae talia occurrere videantur. Si enim Experimenta, quae a me urgentur, laborant defectibus, difficile haud fuerit eos ostendere; si vero valida fuerint, eo ipso dum Theoriam meam asserunt probantque omnes Objectiones convellunt. 