v C 54 3 XIII. Description of an extraordinary Production of Humvx Generat>, with Obserzzatzons. By John Clarke, M. Ds Cogmlnicated by Sir Joseph Banlis, Bart. P. R. S. Read May 16, 0793e w 3 the course of the last year, a woman was admittecI into tlle General Lying-in Hospital, in Stosle Street, Tottenhamcourt Road who, after a natural labor, was delivered of a healthy child. The lirth of this child was succeeded, howearer, by a repeti tion of uterine contractionsv by which another stlbstance was expelled which is the suaject of this paper. It was inclosed in a distinct bag of membranes, compose(l of deciclua, chorionn and amniosa and had a placenta belong ing to it, the side of which was attached to the placenta of tlle perfect child. The membrarles had been opened before I saw it and a small quantity of lSquor amnii having been disclwargecla the contents of the cavity were exposed. The substance contained in the membranes was of an orral figure? rather flattened on the two sides. Its long diameter vas about follr inches C and its short diametern from edge to edge, three inches. One edge v¢as rather more concave tllans tlle otherS and near the centre of it there was a srnall and thin funisn in lengtla about all lnch and half, by means of whicll it wras conlaected to the placentaO Dr. CLARKE'S Descrtp;Zzon) Sc.The sllrface of this substance was covered with the common integuments, and from it issued four p-rojecting parts. Of these the upper is an imperfect resemblance of tlzie foot of a child, having one large and three smaller toes upon it. rrhe lower is a still more iinperEect imitation of a foot, having orne large and two srnaller toes. Beitweerl the two feet is situated a small and rounded projection > into which a small p-assage led, capable of containing a large bristle, but it soon terminated ill a GUI de snc. Close to the funis there was another sinall and thin projection, about a third Of an illch i:n len-gth, whicll looks like a slinger7 and was found to contain bony matter, and joints-. There svas no appearance of headS or neck. No ribs could be felt, nor clavicle, nor scapula. There was no vestige of any thing lilre legs, QR this, or upper extremities r or of organs of generatiorz The ofnly externaI similaritJr of this monster to a human foetus, consists of its covering, and the attempt at a formation of two feet, alld a finger. Elefore the internal strlleture was examined, the rzavelstri-ng of the perfect foetus vvas ilajected rom whence the injection very readily: passed tllrough both placen1;>ea viz. that of itself, and that of the monster; and then ino the substance of the monster also, as appeared by the redness of tl:<e skins When the irajection had become cold, the skin was carefully dissected oW in doing which it was foun(l that the upper ft30t had no bolly connection but greYV 1QOSeV and only conrwected to the internal partsby cellular substance.: The lower foot was articulated to the inferior part of the tibia and {ibula? Dr. CLARKEfS Descripttog of at extraorAaryttle internal structure of the monster was composed of soft aild liony matterP Upon cutting into the forme it appeared of a laornogellftous fleshy texture, but without any regular or distinct arrangement o£ muscular fibres ; and was verJr vascuar t zroug loUt. The bones BJhich were surnunded by this fleshy substa-nce were the os irluorninatum, the os finoris the tibia and the fibula. The relative situation of these to each other desbed the attitude of kneeling. With -regard to the bones themselves the os innominatum and the os fbmoris are both perfect and of the size which we meet with in a ketus at the flll period of atero-gestation; but the tibia aSnd fibula are nucll shorter tIzan in their natural proportion to the thigh bone. At the upper par8; alld towards the inside ofthe os innomillatum was placed a little portiorl of small intestines, loosely collnectedf by their mesenteryn to the posterior edge of that bone, where it is commonly united to th-e os sacrum. These ntestines had a coverirlg of peritonure, and were very mizzutely injected The next object was to trace the veswls of tlle funis which was done with great care. There appeared to be only two viz. an artery, and a vein a atld these passed -on towards the inner surface of the os ilmominatum. As t}ley approached thls bone they gave off some branches to the surrounding parts, which quickly became too small to be traced The trunks then passed backward, towards thati part where the art;iculation with the os sacrum is generally found e at which place they went to the other side of them bone, where they distributed a great number of small branches, arsd were at Sength lost in the surrounding partso Prohction of Human Generalionn CclstThis was the whole of the lrlternal construction of this very extraordinary monster. There was not the srnallest appearance cyf head, or vert-ebrx, or ribss There was neither brain, spinal marrow nor nerves. It had no heartS nor lungs. It contained none of the viscera subservient to digestion, excepting the in-testines already mentioned; nor any glandular sub stance whatsoever. This being a monster of so silagular a nature, I sllall beg leave to add, to the foregoing description, a few observationsp wllich tlae circumstances appear to me naturally to suggest. T-he mere description ofr any nonster is of very small utility, ulaless it tends to explain some actions of the animal economy, before imperfectly, or not at all understood. It is Aon this accoullt that very little addition hasbeen made to the stock of our knowledge of natural history, from cottlsideringthose monsters in whicll there are ewither supernumerary or confused partsX because, if we cannot distinctly perceive the use, or necessity of parts, in tlleir natural state, we are not Iikeltr to advance in information by the examination of those varieties of structure, where difficulties are only multiplied by the greater complication, -or aggravated by the confus-ion of parts. The only useful -inference in laatural history, which can be drawn from monsters of the last kind is, that na;ture carl deviate from the usual arrangement of parts, without any material inconvenience; and therefore, that the existence of parts so as-to be capable of being applied to th-e purpose for which they are intended, in the perfect state of the systemg rather than any l)recise order of themn is required for carryng on the furletiorls of an animal body. Monsters, however, where considerable parts are wantingt MDCCSC I I I o Y SS8 Dr. CLARKE}S: Descrzption f ag exhraordinary seem pecutiarly likely to assist in the prosecution of physiolo gical researches If we were never t-o see an animal except in its perfectstate, we could form no just idea of the comparative necessity of the diffierent parts. So alson ifvre were to attend alone to the complete structure which obtains in the more perfect animals, we might beled falsely to conclude that the usu>;al connexion of parts, which we find in them, was essential to the structure and composition of animal matter. Of these parts the brain and nervesn the stomach and digestive organs generally7 the heartn and the lungs, would appear to be of such importance ill the machine, that one would be induced to imagine that the functions of life could not be carried on without them: but in tracing the works of nature downwards, we shall at length findanimals gradually becoming more and more simple in their construction. The brain and nervous system are altogether wanting in some, arld there are others wllich have neither heart nor lungs yet they continue to exist, and are capable of performing the mo3t import-ant functions of animals. Thus the formation of orle animal serves to throw light alpon the economy of others. This great situplicity of structure ia found, howevern chiefly in anitnals tlle texture of whose bodies is nearly homogelleous; rlot consistingS as in more perfect animals, of parts so diSerent from each other, as skin intestines, &c. are fNrom bone. It might therefore still be supposedS that all the compli ^ ca+.e(l mechanism found irl the more perfect anitnals7 is essentialv to the constrllction of such heterogeneous substAnces, as those of which they consist Productzon of Z Hutnazl (;enercltion, Sc.>o investigate this: lnatter, we rnust laave recourse to those monsters ill whlch there is a deficiency of p$rts. 0 ;There is a very material differerlce between the nature of the life of the more perfect aniinalsS during their time of ftal existencen and after that they are born. In the latter statej the brain and ner6Tes appear to be so essetial, that arly very considerable clefect in them is incolnpatible witll tlae well-being of the arlirnalv but in the uterine state, considerable deviations from the ordinary arrangement of parts,, and such as cannot be endured after birth, are supported svithout any inconvenience. The brain has beerz frequently found very incompletely forlned, and s-ometimes not at all, yet still tllere have been xierves. In other cases where the braill llas been perfect, the spinal marrow has been deficient in a great part of its extent, and sometimes throughout. Both these occurrences are sufficient to protte that, at any rate, that intimate connexion of the brain and nervous system, which takes place after birth, is not necessary for the formation of a body in other respects perfect. But still it would remain doubtful, sYhetller any regular structure could be formeda without any vestige of either brain, or nerves 2 and therefore without a possibility of their influence, in any manner, toward such structure. The monster now under consideration is so extremely simple, in this respect, that it cantlot bt exceeded by the most simple animal known. It may be objected, hc)wevers that there might be brain, or nervous fibres, in this monster, but that they mightS in the dSissectioru-, be destroyed. But, in the first place I beg leave Y 2 -fwCo Dr. CI,ARKE)S Des-cription of an extraordinary-Kto observe, that the parts were examined too carefully for such a suspicion; and, in t;he next, as there were no bones representing either the craniuln, or spine, or os sacruin it is not probable that their contents should exist in any other situation. Another objectloll may perhaps be takerl from the anasto° mosis of the vessels of the monster, with those of the perfect foetus) and it may be assumed, that the nervous influence might be transmitted, in this way, along the vessels, but there is very goocl reason for believing that the vessels of the placenta have no nervesn since, when we cut the navel-string, neither the mother, nor the child, expresses the smalle-st sign of sensation: and indeed, even if they had nerves, it is still very unlikely that, merely by such anastomosisn any nervous influence could be conveyed. I think it right to answer another possible objection which may be made, viz. that nervous matter may be co-extended, or co-existent with all other animal matter, and that, of course, it is oiS no consequence whether there be any sensorium, or reservoir of impressions, &c. or novt; because the stiinulus, which produces action must reside in parts, as well as the other substance of which they are composed. Now, although this may possibly be true, :we have no evi-. dence of the fact sufficierltly satisfactory to carry conviction along with it. On the contrary there seetns to be good reasors for entertaining an opiniorl that nervous influerlce is corzveyed from the brain downwards If we are right in this conjecture, which is warranted by the experiment of tyingS or cutting nerves, then the existence of the nervous fibre,: like that of a string of a musical instrumentX would be inactive, -Prodgction. of Human. Generadon, Ecw16tunless it received an impression, which7 with regard :to the nerves, should come from the brain. The whole of the actions of this monster, then must have been those of the vascular systern entirely, and these seetn to have been capable of forming bolle, skin9 cellular substance ligament, cartilageg intestines, &C The defect of lheart (not an uncommon kind of monstrosity) proves, that the; energy of the arterles was equal to carrying on the circulation, not orlly in its own body, but also through its owrl placentaO The deficiency of nerves renders it extremely probable that their use is very sma-ll, if arlyS to the e-mbryo. It has been arl opinSioll, entertained by a very acute physio1Og;StA Mr. JOHN HIJNTER, that, in all cases, a foetusSis a very simple animal, as to its internal actions, and thecircum $tances attending this monster fully confirm his idea. The; usual oWects of nature in the formation of a foetus aren that it should grow, and that it should be fitted vvith parts whIch, though of-no use to it then, are essential after wards. We knovf that the lungs -are of this kind? and itis very likely that the brain and nerves are so too. The common uses of the nervous powers are, to convey im pressions from without and volition from within. Now a fEetus ill the uterus is exposed to no external impressions, arld is lnost probabl;y incapable of volition, since it is not con i That there is a very materiS dierence betweon the 1nternal functions of a fiaetus in theo womb, and those of an }nfant after btrthX seems very presumable; not only firom finding that it can carry on life without parts which are of the greatest moment afterwards; but also firom its possessing parts Which after birth go into decay or dise appears as the thymus glandy 8cb 16 Dr CLARKE)S Descriptioe of an extrvordinarXformable to the general wisdom of nature t-o give that which in such a situation, lnust be useless. The whole growth tllen7 and formation of a foetal bodyy would seem to d-epend upon the act-ions of the vascular ap:paratus, which, if we may be permitted to judge from tllis -instance, is fully equal to the task With regard to the manner in which this monster was supplied with nourishment, and with the berlefit of air, there is nothing remarliable; because it had a placenta and the circulation between it and the mother was t-he same as in the most perfect ketus. Tal. XVII. and XVIII E:xhibit the appearances described in the foregoing paper Tab. XVII. A view of the external appearances. A. An imperfect formatton of a foot, with four toes upon it. B. An lmperfect formation of another foot having three toes upon it. This footwas collllected to the tibia arld fibula. C. The progecton into whi-ch a duct led, terminating in a w . . w D lna pouc A. 0 D. The funis ambillcalis. E. An imperiect brination of a finger trab. XVIII. An Yinternal view of the -parts as they appeared affter clearing away the fleshy matter from the boness A. The os irlnominatum Bw The os imorish fgzz>, . D-av.s . MDCCXCE. T4g9. BX .Xs .Z&7 . &1: D /o J E eI* 1,, ;v ll Production of Humorn Generatiott &=c. t63 C. The tibia and fibula, to which the lower foot was con nected D. The funis umbilicalisy with two bristles in the vessels. E. The bristles passing, in the vessels, to the outside of the. . es lnnomlnatum. F. A portion of small intestines terminating in a c?sl de sarc at each extremitJrO 