(2196) Extracts of two Letters from Mr, Martin Lister to the Publisher, of June 14, 1671. and July 5. 1671. concerning the kind of Insect, hatched of the English Kermes, formerly taken notice of and described by the same in Numb. 71. p. 2164; as also the Use of these Purple Insect-Husks for tinging, together with a comparison made of this English Purple Kermes with the Scarlet-Kermes of the Shops. THe first Letter, June 10th. I found several of the Patellae Kermi formes hatched in a Box, where I had purposely put them. They prove a sort, as I guessed by the figure of the Worm,of Bees, but certainly the least, that I ever yet saw of that Tribe,as not much exceeding in their whole bulk the half of a Pismire. They are very compact and thick for the bigness; of a cole-black colour. They seem to want neither stings,nor the three balls in a triangle in their fore-head; which yet are thingsto be referred to the testimony of a Microscope. That which is very remarkable to the naked Eye,is a white or strawcolour large and round spot on the back: Of their four Wings the upper pair are shaded or dark-spotted, the undermost pair are clear. We may entitle them, according to our custom, Apiculae nigrae, macula super humeros sub-slave scente insignitae, e patellis sive favis membranaceis, veri Kermes similibus, suaque itidem purpura tingentibus, Cerasi aut Rosae aliarumve arborum virgis adtextis,exclusae. This of the Purple-Husks,and the other History of Scarletstaining Eggs * I present you as parallels of our Engl sh store to Kermes and Cocheneil; I mean, additaments to encrease the number of agreeable tinging Materials and not Medicaments, unless wary and safe Tryal shall discover to us if they have any Medicinal qualities, as use and custom hath made us believe the Exotic have in an high degree. One of the said husks, I sent you,adhered to a Rose-tree-twig, and the other to a Cherry-tree. But a Rose-bush since hath afforded me some scores of these patellae, many of which are hatched in the box I put them. It is to be further observed, 1. that those that look the blackest, yield tl e deepest and best purple: 2. That as the Bees come to maturity, the dye seems to be spent,and the Husks grow dry. 3. That the * Of which latter, See Numb. 72. p.2176.2177. (2197) the young ones make their way out at several small holes; whereas the true Kermes-husk seems to be pierced but in one place. The Second; The discovery of our English Kermes had very much pleased some of the Curious in these parts; who resolve upon Tryals of it the next season. I think, I advertised you formerly, that that deep purple or violet, with which the insides of the husks are lin'd, is much spent, if the husk, be not taken whilest the Bees are in vermiculo; and the blackest husks are richest in colour. Yesterday in very good company we compar'd our English Purple-kermes with the Scarlet-kermes or Grains of the Shops, and found them in every point to agree save in the colour of their Juices; and particularly (finding in some parcels of the Shops many yet sticking to little twigs of the Ilex,)we confidently affirm,that those as well as ours are only contiguous to the Ilex-branches,and are not excrescencies of the Tree,much less fruit or berries; by which abusive names they have been too long known; But that they are the artifice and sole work of the mother-Bee in order to the more convenient hiving and nourishment of her young. 