An Account of a Luminous Appearance in the Sky, seen at London on Thursday March 13. 1734-5. by John Bevis, M. D. A S I was observing Mars near a small fixt Star, then in the West, on the Top of my House in Buckingham-street, about five Minutes after Eight, equal Time; happening to turn my Face Southward, I was surprised with an uncommon bright Glade of Y y Light. [348] Light. It was strait, about 21/2 Degrees broad, and 110, or 120 Degrees long, ill defined at either End, but pretty well at the Sides, that is, much as the common Rainbow, or one of those Pyramids which are used to dart up from the Horizon in an Aurora Borealis, which Light it resembled in all respects, except in its Place and Position, and that this was steady, and altogether without that tremulous kind of Motion, which usually accompanies that. Besides Saturn, Mars, Venus, and the fixt Stars, there was then no other Light in the Sky, nor the least Cloud, nor any of that horizontal Blackness which we see Northward in the Aurora. The Stars were as discernible through it, as if nothing had been there. A Gentleman who was with me, fansied it to be the Tail of a Comet; but as neither he nor myself had ever seen one, I gave but little Heed to that Conjecture: However, I carefully directed a 17 Foot Glass to all Parts of its western Extremity, but could discern nothing like a Nucleus. When I first saw it, it extended itself from about the Mid-way between Aldebaran, and Orion's Left Shoulder, through Gemini a little under ~, and so on through Cancer and Leo, just above Cauda Leonis, till it arrived between Vindematrix and Coma Berenices, where it ended very dilutedly. In about half an Hour it grew dim about the Middle, where in a short time it separated in two, or rather became quite dark there; but then methought the disjoined Parts were more luminous than before; but they too in a little while after grew dimmer, and shortened away, on to their remote Extremities, which remained visible the longest; the Western one about Nine o'Clock, the Time [349] Time of its Extinction, being near Orion's Right Shoulder, and the other near the Left Knee of Bootes; so that this Meteor seems pretty nearly to have accompanied the Earth in its diurnal Motion, and to have had little or no Motion besides. I have looked for this Light since, but could find nothing like it. The Day was exceeding fine, and by my Journal I find, that, At Noon, the Barometer was 29.98. Thermometer 57. Wind.... East. Decl. of the Needle 14~ 10~. At 10 at Night, Barometer 29.86. Thermometer 57.5. Decl. of the Needle 13~ 50~.. XV. 