[274] VI. Another Case of a Person bit by a MadDog, drawn up by David Hartley, M. A. and Mr. Fr. Sandys, communicated to the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y by Francis Wollaston, Esq; F. R. S. A B O U T the latter End of November 1732. Mr. Soame's Groom was bit in the Hand by a Mad-Dog, so as to fetch Blood. It was not known in the Family for three Days. On the 4th Day, when Fr. Sandys first saw it, the Wound was healed; but it was opened again by him, and kept so for some time, but at last healed sooner than was intended, by the Neglect of the Servant. He was bled, took a Purge, after that half an Ounce of Pulvis Antilyssus every Morning for three Mornings, and was ordered to go into cold Water every Day for some time; but he neglected it after the 3d Day. Besides this, Fr. Sandys order'd him to forbear all Meats, and drink nothing but Water. He continued in this Regimen for about five Weeks; then finding himself well, would confine himself no longer to it. On Sunday, Jan. 7. following, he was seized with a Sickness, Vertigo, and faultering in his Speech and Memory; and at last his Vertigo increased to such a Degree, that he fell down twice in the Space of half an Hour; and the last time did not recover his Senses, till he was put to Bed, and blooded by a Person in the Neighbourhood, to the Quantity of 18 or 20 Ounces, by [275] by his Master's Order. Fr. Sandys was sent for, but could not come. He continued all Night restless and sullen, and in the Morning was blooded again, to the Quantity of 15 Ounces. D. Hartley was sent for, and came about Eight at Night, and found him very sullen, thirsty, but averse to drinking, and his Pulse quick and hard. He ordered him to be put into the cold Bath; but he refused to comply with it, till he saw that Force would be used. About Midnight his Pulse rising, the Doctor ordered him to be blooded to the Quantity of 16 or 18 Ounces: He continued all Night restless. About Eight in the Morning he went into the cold Bath again: About 10 D. Hartley went away, leaving it as his Opinion, that the cold Bath and Bleeding should be freely repeated, as the Circumstances should require. About Noon D. Sandys, being hitherto detained by Business, came, and bled him immediately, to the Quantity of 18 or 20 Ounces: He continued all this Night restless. Upon Fr. Sandys's asking him whether his Aversion to drinking proceeded from any Pain in swallowing, or some other Cause? he said it was from a Pain in swallowing. The next Morning his Strength not being at all diminished, and his Pulse continuing full as vigorous as ever, Fr. Sandys bled him again to the Quantity of 15 or 16 Ounces; yet he still remained the same, and took the same Care of his Horses as usual. Fr. Sandys went away, leaving Orders that as long as these Symptoms, viz. Restlessness, Strength, and Aversion to drinking continued, he should be blooded freely, and put into the cold Bath. He was blooded twice more within the Week, so that the whole Quantity which [276] which he lost in that time was about 120 Ounces. After the last bleeding his Symptoms disappeared, and he grew weak, low-spirited and sleepy: Then he went eight times into the cold Bath. He did not take any Medicines during his whole Illness. D. Hartley. F. Sandys. N. B. This Person hath continued well ever since, Anno 1738. See Dampier's Powder, No 237. and No 443. Printed for T. W O O D W A R D, at the Half-Moon; between the Two Temple-Gates in Fleetstreet, and C. D A V I S, the Corner of Pater-noster-row, next Warwick-lane; P R I N T E R S to the R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. M.DCC.XXXIX. 