J STOR Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. An Accompt of two Books I. G U A G I N G E P I T O M I S E D, by M I C H A E L D A R Y. London, Printed by W. Godbid 1669. upon one folio page. A Table of Squares and Cubes is of general use, but more particularly in Guaging, for taking away Proportional work in computing the contents of Brewers Tuns from inch to inch, or by as great portions as you please; or for making the Tables of Gallon-measure for M. Oughtreds Guage-Rod: Yea each kind of Table doth much expedite the Guaging of Caske, as may be seen in this Printed Sheet of Mr Dary, wherein he supposeth,that a Beer or Ale-Gallon contains (according to the late Establishment by Law) 282. Cubical inches; a WineGallon, according to custom and Experiment, 281. Council Inches: And he takes an Example (of a Canary Pipe) whose diB Boung 32 ameter at the is inches, and Length 44 inches. Head 22 And (1054) And if you suppose the Heads of such a Cask to be two Plains erect to the Axis, and alike remote from the Center, cutting off both ends of the figure produced, then, if the middle frustum, so intercepted,be computed as The Content in Wine Gallons is about Solid Zone Sphaeroid 1261/4 a Parabolical 1151/2 The of Spindle. Cones. Of the same 1101/3 two Parabolical base and 1128/16 Trunci Conoids height the Method of Calculation being very easy by either sort of Tables, and of great affinity in all these figures. And whereas the Learned have commonly supposed, Cask to be the midle frusta of Spheroids, and given Rules accordingly for Gaaging them, those supposictions, as Vintners and others upon experience assert, are found too much to enlarge the Capacity, so that a Canary Pipe,that is reputed to hold about 126.gallons,upon Experiment hath been found to contain but 116.gallons:And to determine,what figure is most proper to be admitted, cught to be built upon such an Experiment as this; Conceive a Caske to lye upon an Horizontal Plain with its Axis paralel thereto; and Perpendiculars on the outside of the smooth boards of the Cask to fall, from the Head, Boung, and some intermediate point between,upon the Plain or Floore; and in like manner the axis to be designed: Then find out such a curved line of some property, that may pass thorough the said Points, which conceive to have a rotation about the Axisline:the round solid so made may be taken to represent the Cask; and in the Writings of Geometers divers Curves are to be found, that are capable of passing through such Points and their round Solids measured. But if the Reader think this too nice and troublesome, and that the Sphaeroid way is too great, and the Parabolick spindle too little, then the Author gives scope enough between; showing how to contrive such Rules, as shall best agree with Experience. I I. H I S. (1058) II. H I S T O I R E N A T U R E L L E D E S A N I M A U X P L A N T E S E T M I N E R A U X, qui entrent dans la Composition de la T H E R I A Q U E D' A N D R O M AC H U S; par M. Charus In 12. A Paris. AS there are above 60 sorts of different druggs, which are ingredients of this no less difficult than famous and usefull Medicine,which was invented by Andromachus,Physitian to Nero;and as those drugs are subject to be sophisticared,and require different preparations,so there are few men, that are sufficiently skill'd to chuse aright all those ingredients, or dextrous and patient enough to prepare them well. The Author of this Book treats of this celebrated medicament, and not only teacheth the way of composing it, but intersperseth many not in considerable remarkes touching the nature and vertues of all the Druggs, which compose it. He is of opinion, that commonly there are committed many faults in preparing the Ingredients, of which the Theriack is made up. E. g. When the Vipers are prepared, the custom is to whip them; thereby to make all the venom go to the head, which is cut off when they are sufficiently enraged. They also boile the flesh,thereby to draw forth what venemousness may yet rest therein,and their bones are cast away as useless. Whereas he saith,that it being by Experience evident, that all the venom of the Viper is in his Teeth and Jaws, that whipping is not only to no purpose, but also dangerous, in regard that the Spirits being chased and irritated may beget venom in the body, where was none. He asserts also, that the water, in which the viper-flesh is boyled, carryes away all the vertue; and that the bones that are thrown away are no less useful, than the flesh itself. He takes further notice, that Opium hath not those ill qualities, which many afcribe to it, who teach, that it suffocatcth the natural heat,and that there need no more than 3. graines to dispatch the lustiest man: whereas he assures,that himself hath taken 6 graines of it without having been more stupifyed by it, than he used to be; and that instead of being debilitated, he hath found himself strengthned by it. He adds, that he knows a man of a constitution delicate enough, who hath taken of it to 30. grains, and yet not found any troublesome accident upon it; on the contrary that the Patient hath found himself so well after it, that he continued to take the same dose twice or thrice a week. He observes also, that whereas it hath been disputed, what might cause the difference of Colour in the White and Black Pepper, some believing,that Pepper gathered before it was ripe, looked white, but became black in ripening; others pretending, that as the same Vine-stocks, which produce white grapes, do not bear black ones, so they are different plants,that bear Pepper of different colour;our Author affirms,that this diversity of Colours proceeds thence,that the black Pepper is covered by its skin,which the white is bared of &c. 