An Account of two Books. I. THE PROGRES and ADVANCEMENT OF KNOWLEDGE since the dayes of ARISTOTLE; in an Account of some of the most remarkable late Improvements of useful Learning. By JOS. GLANVILL, London in 8~ Printed for James Collins; THe chiefe design of the Discourse in this Book is, to encourage more and more the free and better disposed spirits to a vigorous endeavour in the pursuits of such knowledge, as may really enrich the underst nding of Man, and more amply provide for the Necessities and Accemmodations (716) ons of Humane life, and to raise the Capable and Ingenuous from a dull and dorw fic acquiescence in the Discoveries of former times, by representing the great Encouragements, we have to proceed from modern Helpes and Advancements. Of these the learned and ingenious Author hath given considerable instances in many Particulars, casting chiefly an Eye upon the R.Scciety, and the noble purposes of that Illustrious Body, looking upon the same as the great Ferment of Generous and Useful knowledge, designed to turn Learned men to that excellent study, from which men have been so long and so unhappily diverted, viz. of Gods Great Book, uNIVERSAL NATURE. And because some Good men seem to be afraid of an Institution, they have heard but imperfectly of, and are jealous of what they have not had opportunities to understand, he hath therefore given a succinct as well as a genuine and polite account of the Reason, nature and designs of that Establishment, for the information of such, as have not yet met with their Excellent History. Whence it will appear to unprejudic'd men, That the Business of that Society is not to Dispute, but Work; and their Aim, not to pursue Phancyful Designs, but to free Philosophy from the vain Images and Contrivances of Fancy, by making it palpable, and bringing it down to the plain Objects of the Senses. Taking to task that insulting Question, What have they done? He gives an Answer to it, which doubtless will satisfie discreet and sober men. And as for those that would have them give the Great Elixir, the Perpetual Motion, the way to make Glass Malleable, and Man Immortal, &c. or they will object, they have done nothing; for such, he saith, their impertinent Taunts are no more to be regarded, than the Chat of Ideots and Children. II. ABRAHAMI COULEI ANGLI, Sex LIBRI PLANTARUM, Poemate Latino conscripti. Londini in 8~ Impensis Joh. Martyn. This Author (whose un-common Genius and Parts may be read with great satisfaction in the account of his life, given, and prefixt to this excellent Piece, by M. Thom. Sprat) Treats in the two first Books, of Herbes; in a style resembling the Elegies of Ovid and Tibullus: In the third and fourth, of Flowers; in the variety of Catullus and Horace's Numbers: In the two last, of Trees, in the way of Virgil's Georgick's. Of these, the sixth Book seemes wholly dedicated to the Honour of his Country; as is observ'd in the newly-mention'd Account. 