(222) XXI. A short Account of some Swedish Minerals, &c. sent from Mr Angestein, Overseer of the King of Sweden's Mines, to Mr James Petiver, Apothecary, and F. R. S. I. BItumen fossile, coagulatum, in Ferrifodina Betzberg apud Suecos. This is very light, black, and shining, like Pitch, or Canal-Coal; in taste insipid, brittle and not clammy. II. Minera Ferri Betzbergae. A blackish Mineral, full of small glittering sandy Particles, which easily break and crumble small like black Sand; its ponderous, and without any drossy Mixture. III. Minera Martis Betzbergae. The outside lumps are smooth and shining, its inside of finer Particles than the last, but when broke more shining, large and flakey. IV. Minera Martis Betzbergae, Carbonis facie. The outside smooth and somewhat shining like PitCoal, the inside more gray and glittering. V. Minera Martis ditissima, fodinae Danemorae Sueciae. This resembles a Slat-Coal of a Lead colour, heavy, but neither shining nor glittering, except a little Brassey in the interstices; which are but few, and those irregular: This had a sparry Vein thro' it, about the thickness of a quarter of an Inch. VI. Rubinus globulosus, e Fodina Garpenberg Sueciae. These are near as long as Hazel Nuts; the outside in many Places transparent, but broken and rugged; they seem more ponderous than a clear Ruby of the same size. Minera (223) VII. Minera Veneris seu Cupri, Garpenbergae. Its exterior face Brassey and shining, with some few spaces of deep Copper, with a blue in the Center; the interstices are pale Brass in some Places, and where its fresh broken into the heart of the Oar, its of a glorious Lustre; in some places its coated, with a white or discoloured sparr. VIII. Minera Cupri e fodina Flaklunensi Sueciae. This is mostly composed of pale brassey micae, with a small mixture of deeper, and near a quarter part of black sprinkles somewhat shining. IX. Minera Cupri ditissima LAZUR dictum, e fodina Linsnadiensis Provincia Heerdacensis Sueciae. The Oar is very like No. VII. its coated with yellowish Spar, mixt with a paleish white. X. Minera Argenti-Plumbea e fodina Hollefarsen Suaeciae. Very like our Mendip Lead Oar, full of large sparkling Flakes or Micae. XI. Certum genus Aluminis plumosi cum Minera Plumbi intermixtum, e fodina Saklberg Sueciae. The Amiant part is of a light Gray or Lead colour, composed of fine long brittle Filaments; the outsides and hollows are filled with very white short and brittle Spar. XII. Matrix Minera Argenteae, Saklbergae. This is a short irregular white shining Spar, much like the last which lies with the Amiantus; it easily breaks into small pieces with the Hammer. XIII. Minera Lunae & Saturni e Saklberg. The Sparks of this are very bright and shining, with smaller micae than No. X. in it are interspers'd some little bits of white Spar. XIV. Mi(224) XIV. Minera Lunae & Saturni Saklbergae una cum Matrice. This Oar has a particular Face, being composed of many ruinous angular Columns lying confusedly; some long and crooked, others short; amongst them are some like Glass greenish and transparent; these very easily fall into pieces with a light blow of a Hammer. XV. Minera Lunae, Arsenici & Saturni ex Argenti fodina Saklberg. The Flakes of these are pretty large like No. X. and very glittering. XVI. Cuprum praecipitatum, fodina Schilou Sueciae. Its outer Coat is rusty, and resembles an Iron Stone or Clay, under which are some thin Strata of a dark or blewish hue; the Center of an Iron brown full of small Copper Micae, which in some places are of a refulgent fiery lustre. XVII. Minera Cupri rarissima e Schilou. This resembles Colcothar, but of a brighter red, and very weighty; it seems to have some very small shining Particles in it, and in some parts of its outsides, it has a sort of sullen greenish Wood-like rust, but its not very heavy. XXII. A 