(5176) The P R E F A C E. THE Learned St. Hierom was formerly our Advocat in celebrating the Travels and hardy Adventures of Philosophers to acquire knowledge, and in commemorating the respectful Addresses and Veneration, which great and wise men offer'd to Philosophers. This he performs with most affectionat ardor; and these Respects are agreeable to the Dictates of Right Reason, of Good Nature, and of the Good Manners of the Civil Gentiles.Also our famous Cowley came close to our Concernments, both in his Poetical inspirations, and in his sober Prose. He vindicates the excellency and distributes the main parts of Experimental Philosophy. And thus far we have obtain'd, in our Defence, Authentique zeal, well grounded Raptures, Ancient and Modern Suffrage; on both sides accomplish't with the politest Learning and soundest Judgments. Now, for a Caution, to prevent an unhappy Obstruction, that it may not interrupt the Generous in their poursuit of Reviving and Promoting the Ingenuous Arts, I shall here enquire a little the Cause of their Decay in degenerating Ages. And the Roman Satyrist, whose style was too often polluted by the profligate Luxury of his days, hath yet reserv'd, for our occasions, a clean, elegant and brief Declamation, (perhaps one of the best Remains of Antiquity,) since pertinent and argute Declamations had a great name in the Schools of Rome and of old Greece. petron. Tum ille (Eumolpus Encolpio,) pecuniae, inquit, cupiditas haec Tropica * instituit. Priscis enim temporibus, cum adhuc nuda virtus placeret, vigebant Artes Ingenuae; summumque certamen inter homines erat, ne quid profusurum seculis diu lateret. Itaq; har* I. e. Umbras rerum atque imagines tantum, & simulacra rerum inania, surdo figurarum discrimine. Sic Jan. Deusa. V. plin. l.35. c. 11. Conversiones, inquit Erbardus, & mutationes. Sic Dan. Heinsius; Quis Deus tropical aec induxit, aut quae est haec commutatio. (5177) harcula * omnium herbarum succos Democritus expressit; &, ne Lapidum Virgultorumque vis lateret, aetatem inter Experimenta consumpsit. Eudoxus quidem in cacumine excelsissimi montis consenuit, ut Astrorum Caeliq; motus deprehenderet: Et Chrysippus, ut ad Inventionem suffice= ret, ter helleboro animum detersit.Verum, ut ad Plastas convertar, Lysippum statuae unius lineamentis inhaerentem inopia extinxit; & Myron, qui fere hominum animas ferarumque, aere comprehenderat, non invenit haeredem. At nos vino scortisque demersi, ne paratas quidem Artes audemus cognoscere; sed,accusatores Antiquitatis,vitia tantum docemus & discimus. Ubi est Dialectica? Ubi Astronomia? Ubi Sapientiae consultissima via? Quis unquam venit in Templum, & votum fecit, si ad Eloquentiam pervenisset? quis, si philosophiae fontem invenisset? Ac ne bonam quidem men= tem, aut bonam valetudinem petunt; sed statim antequam limen Capitolii tangant, alius donum promittit, si propinquam divitem extulerit; alius si thesanrum effoderit; alius, si ad trecenta H S. salvus pervenerit. Nolite ergo mirari, si Pictura defecit, cum omnibus Diis Hominibusque formostor videatur massa Auri, quam quicquid Apelles Phidiasve, Grauculi delirantes, fecerunt. * Erhard.lege arcula.Nemo fuit, qui daret significatum ignotiori vocabulo. Fuere qui emendarent. At ego ex Vitruvio oftendam, Arcam esse Machinam, qua marinus flactus a portu reprimitur; & inde dimiunt. Arcula, machina qua humor aliunde exprimitur. Idem Schickerat. in ep. crit. & Barthius. Vid. Vitruv. l.5. c. 12. Quibusdam deest haec vox: Caeterum nullum exemplar habent. By comparing this collapsed state of the noblest Sciences, we may see the peculiar happiness of this present Age, in which there are in all parts of the Learned World so many excellent persons of Lustre and Honour, of eminent Authority, great Power, and ample Fortunes, who do generously contributexthe influence of their Countenance, many their own Personal Assistance, and some their Treasures,to recover and adorn the Antient Arts, and to supply Extraordinary Aids and Accommodations. And this Glory is principally to be ascribed to our Most Gracious King, the Founder of the Royal Society,whose propitious Patronage doth cherish so many learned Votaries and curious Artificers in all his Kingdoms, and as far as his Dominions do extend; and whose great Example doth invite and encourage Y y y y y 2 So (5178) so many forrein Virtuosi of great virtuosi and solid worth, to afford considerable Assistance towards the Propagation of Philosophical Arts, and the Advancement of knowledg. Of which many pregnant Instances and manifest Matters of Fact do bear evidence, as they are with faithfulness, but without artifice or elaboratness, registred in these un-polish't Volumes. 