XXVI. Expenriments on Ammonia, and an Account of a new Method of Azdyzing it, by Combustion with Oxygen and other CGases; in a Letter to Humphry Davy, Esq. Sec. R. S. &c. from William tIenry, M. D., F. R. S. V. P. of the Lit. and Phil. Society, and Physician to the lnfirmasy, at Manchester*M, DFAreAt SIR, I SHOULD sooner have c~ommunicated the account, which; you_ are so good as to request, of my further experiments on thedecomposition of ammonia, if I had not been anxious to obtain5 by frequent and careful repetition of them, results net affected by any of those numerous causes of error, which easily insi-~ nuate themselves into processes of so much delicacy. You have already been informed that the fact, which I lately mena, tioned to you, (tending to prove the existence of oxygen as an element of the volatile alkali, by the discovery of oxygen gas in the products of its analysis ) is not entitled to confidence, owing to the admission of a small quantity of atmospherical air, in a way which was not -at all suspected. Frequent repetitions of the same process, under circumstances wholly unit objectionable, have fully satisfied me, that no port'ion whatsoever of oxygen gas is evolved by electricity from ammonia, even when, by means of an apparatus constructed for the * This letter inits original form, was read to the Society, May i 8th, 1809, some. hew observations were added and some corrections furnished by the author, in con. sequence of subsequent experiments made in June; it was transmitted to the Secre? tary for publication July ao. Dr. HENRY'S Experil2ents on Ammonia, &c. 434, purpose, the only metallic surface, exposed to the gas, conSists of the sections of two platina wires, each t of an inch in diameter, the wires themselves being inclosed in glass tubes wNwhich are sealed hermetically round them, and then ground away, so as to expose only the points Nor does any differ'ence in. the nature of the products arise from electrifying the gas either under increased or diminished pressure, the latter of which, it appeared to me probable, from the known influence of elasticity in impeding the combination of gas~eous bases, might prevent the oxygen of the alkali from u-niting with hydrogen to form water, and occasion the expansion of both into the state of gas. Having failed, therefore, to acquire, in this way, Foof of the existence of oxygen in the volatile alkali, I waMs next led FtO seek for -some unequivocal mode of evincing the production of -walter by the same operation; a fact, which would be scarcely less satisfactory in establishing oxygen to be one of its constituents, than the actual separation of Oxygen gas. The miost careful observation of a;mmonia, duri-ng and after the agency of electricity, does not discover the smallest percep tible quantity of -moisture. In order, therefore, to subject the gas to a satisfactory test, I had recoure to the following con triv-ance. Ammoniacal gas, I had previously found, may ba $o -far desiccated by exposure to caustic potash, as to shew no traces of conudensed moisture, on the inne-r surface of a thin glass vessel containing it, when exposed to a cold of 0* FAaRENHEIT 9though the recent ,gsby the same ;treatment, is made to deposit water in the state of a thin film of ice. A glass globe, of the capacity of between two and three cubical inches, was filled with gaseous ammonia, which was then K. 432 Dr.HENNRY'S Experments on P4monta' & dried by sticks of pure potash, fastened to pieces of steel wire, so that they could be withdrawn, after having exerted their full action. This point of dryness was ascertained by applying anther, or a mixture of snow and salt, to the outsideof the globe. By means of a peculiar apparatus, the gas was next strongly electrified, and the cooling power was; again applied to the outer surface of the globe. In the first trials, that were made with this apparatus, water certainly seemed to have been formed by the electrization Of the alkaline gas; for the same portion of gas, which was not affected by a freezing mixture before the process, gave eviP dent signs of condensed moisture, w hen. the cooling power was applied after long continued electrization. The appearance was not only quite satisfactory to myself, but to Mr. DALTON, and several other chemical friends, to whom I shewed the experiment. Finding, however, that the appearance va; ried as to its degree, I was induced to repeat the process with redoubled precaution; fillingthe globe, previously heated, withh hot mercury, and dryingnot only the quicksilver, but the iron cistern which contained it, by exposure to long conl tinued heat. The electrified gas now betrayed no signs of moisture on the application of a temperature 2 o*f FAHRENU. HEIT; and gave only the' smallest perceptible traces, by a cold of o? or a few degrees below. I cannot help suspecting, therefore, that the moisture, manifested in the earlier experimnents, was derived from the mercury or from some extraneous source, and was not generated by the action of electricity.* It may be objected, I am aware, that as the gases produced from ammonia are searly doublel its original bulk, they nayhold' in combination any water that may Dr. ThNRYS Expenrmezits on Amnmonzia, &c. The avidity with which ammonia retains moisture, aend again absorbs it when artificially dried, is very remarkable. A confined quantity of common air may be completely desicg cated, in the space of a few minutes, by pure potash, or by muriate of lime; so that no ice shall appear in the inner surface of the containingvessel, when exposed. to a cold of26? of FAHRENHEIT. But ammonia requires exposure during some hours to potash, to stand the test even of o? FAHRENHEIT; and a single transfer of the dried gas, through the mercury of a trough in ordinary use, again communicates moisture to it. Muriatic acid gas, freed merely from visible moisture, deposits no water at the temperature of s60 FAHRENHEIT. This is probably owing to its strong affinity for water; for electricity after the full action of muriate of lime, evolves, as I have lately ascertained, about 1t-th its bulk of hydrogen gas, the recent muriatic acid gas giving, about -gth after the same treatment** have been generated by electricity. But though this supposition may explain the nonappearance of -visible 2noisture, it does not account for the inefficiency of a powerful cooling cause to discover traces, of watery vapour: for this is a test which renders apparent very minute quantities of water in gases. * in a course of experiments, which I have described in the Philosophical Transactions for x8Soc it appeared that muriatic acid gas, after being dried by muriate of lime, gave nearly as much hydrogen by electrization, as gas which had not been thus exposed. I was not however aware, at that time, of the extreme caution necessary in experiments of this kind; and was satisfied with transferring the acid gas from a large vessel, in which it had been dried, into the electrizing tube, a: mode. of proceeding which I now find to be quite. inadmissible. The action of muriate of lime, which has undergone fusion, on niuriatic acid gas, is rendered very sensible, when considerable quantities are used, by the evolution of much heat, and by a diminution of the volume of the gas. Ammonia, also, is contracted in bulk by dry caustic potash. Muriate of lime cannot be employed for its desiccation, since this substance rapidly absorbs 4E31 DDr. HEVENY'iS Expermntents on Ammonia, &c. From the average of a great number of, experiments on -the decomposition of ammonia by electricity, I was for some time led to believe, that you -had rather under-stated the proportion of permanent gases obtainable from it by this process, (Viz. io8 measures of permanent gas, from Bo of ammonia -or 18o from coo). For the most part, I had found the bulk of amm-onia to be doubled by decompostion, even when-the-gas w prev--usly dried with extreme care. In one instance, a small bit of dry -potash was left in the tube, along with the ammonia, during electrization, with the viewz< of its absorbinLg water, which I supposed, at -that time, -to be -genered by the process. In this case, 59 measures (each to grains of mercury) became -i 115. The following Idble -shews the expansion of various quantities of ammonia. Exp. iX. bo measures of ammonia, gave permanent gas i 2 2. 6o ? 120 3. 59 (potash being left in the tube) _ 1 4. 55 115 5. 7 (-under the pressure of half an atmosphere) igo 6 66; 1502g . , 6 , . . . -7. 6s -i 130 8. 53 (one of the conductors -being of steel wire) lo,6 492 978 and 49 9-78 100-o 98,78. These proportions, you will find, correspond very nearly with those long ago stated the alkaline gas, even when the gas has been previously exposed to quick-lime. In this case, the ammonia attracts a portion of muriatic acid from the earthy salt, agreeably to the law of affinity, which has been so ably illustrated by BEiRTHOLLET. ,thrHENRY'S ExPerimrents on d-Mm ia, &C. by BERTIO;LET,* who converted 17 measures of ammonia by electrization-, into a measures of permanent gas, which is at the rate of 1ip from too Having lately, however, carried on the process with the observance of additional precaution, (the mercury being first: boiled in the tube, before admitting the anmmonia, and still rema-ining hot when the gaswas passed up), I have obtained from the alkali less than double its vo lu.meof petmanent gas, viz 280o measures from n , or at -the rate of igo,6 from iooa. The variableness of the first set of results arises, I believe, Irom the uncertainty of the quantity of amrmnia decomposed. For if the smallest portion of moiture remainn in the tube, a little ammoniaeal gas will be ab-, sorbed, and will be slowly given out again as the electriza-, tion goes onr,, thus rendering the actual quatity submitted to experiment-greater than appears. It is probable, also, from a falct which I shall afterwards state, that mercury itself, un-less when heated, may absorb a small portion of alkaline gas. The proportions of the hydrogen, and nitrogen gases to each, .other inthe products: of ammonia decomposed by electricity, I am satisfied, by recent experimernts(June, 180o) is asnearly as possible what you have determined, viz. 74 measures of hydrogengas to 26 of nitrogen. T]henearest approximation I have made to these numbers is h 73,7 to 26,25. Our only method of analyzin'g mixtures of these two gases, (viz, by combuston with a redundancy of oxygen1) is not, I believe, sufficiently perfect to afford a nearer coincidence. The extreme labour and, tediousness of the ecotnposition of ammoniaby electricity, influenced me to attempt the discovery of a shorter anzdmore summary method of analysis. The* Journal de Physique, i786 'i. f76, 486 -Dr. HENRY'S Eperinments on Ammonza, &can moost obvious one, was its decomposition by oxymuriati acid gas; but this plan was abandoned, from the impossibilityof confining both the gases by any one fluid; since water acts powerfully on the one, and mercury on the other. But a mixture of -oxygen and ammoniacal gases more than answered my expectations. When mingled in proper proportions, these gases, I have ascertained, may be detonated over mercury by an electric spark; exactly like a mixture of vital and in.flammable air; and the results of the process, with due attention to the circumstances which will soon be stated, afford an easy and precise method of analyzing, in the space of a few minutes, considerable quantities of the volatile alkali. With a greater proportion of pure oxygen gas* to ammonia than that of three to one, or of ammonia to oxygen than that of three to 1.4, the mixture ceases to be combustible. When the proportions best adapted to inflammation are used, oxygen gas may be diluted with six times its bulk of atmospherical air, without losing its property of burning ammonia. Atmospherical air alone does not, however, inflame with Ammonia, in any proportion that I have yet tried; though, by long continued electrization with -air, ammonia is at length decomposed; its hydrogen uniting with the oxygen of the air and forming water, while the nitrogen of both composes a permanent residuum. Forty-five measures of ammonia being electrified, with eighty-six of common air, the total i3i became 136, and 132 after being washed with water. Of 17.2 measures of oxygen, contained in the 86 measures of air at ,the outset, only 2.9 were left, and these, also, would probably have disappeared by continuing the operation. If a mixb * Containing only three or four per cent. nitrogen gas. Mr. HENRY'S Experiments on Ammonia. 437 ture of ammonia and atmospheric air, each previously dried by caustic potash and then electrified, be examined, the production of water is made sufficiently apparent on applying ether to the containing vessel. In subjecting ammonia, therefore, to this test of the generation of water by electricity, the purity of the gas from atmospheric air should be carefully determined.* The products of the comnbustion of ammonia with oxygen vary essentially, according to the proportion of the gases which are nemployed. If the oxygen gas exceed considerably the ammonia (that is, if its volume be double or upwards) the ammonia entirely disappears; and no gases remain, but a mixture of nitrogen with the redundant oxygen. The moment the detonation is completed, a dense cloud appears,t and soon afterwards settles into a white incrustation on the inner surface of the tube. The quantity of this substance, which is produced, is too minute for analysis; but its characters resemble those of nitrate of ammonia, the acid ingredient of which is probably generated by the action of oxygen on the nitrogen of one part of the volatile alkali. Accordingly, when the excess of oxygen is removed by sulphuret of lime, * The result of this experiment shews, moreover, that even supposing oxygen to be a constituent of ammonia, we are not to expect its evolution, in a separate form, by electricity; since, when electrified with ammoniacal gas, oxygen gas is deprived of its elastic form, and its base is condensed into water, by union with nascent hydrogen evolved from the alkali. t In some cases I have observed, that when the cloud does not occur immediately, it may be made to appear by agitating the quicksilver contained in the detonating tube. This is probably owing to the disengagement of some ammonia, which had lodged in the mercury. The fact confirms what I have already suggested, respecting the cause of the variable proportion of gases, evolved from ammonia by electricity. UIcCCIX. 3 L 438 M.r. HENRY'S ExperaiMents oni Anmonia. the nitrogen generally falls short of the proportion, which ought to accrue from a givenr weight of ammonia ; and hence it is scarcely possibleto attain, when a considerable, excess of oxygen is used, an accurate analysis of the volatile alkali. When, on the contrary, the ammonia exceeds considerably the oxygen gas, no productionof nitrous acid appears to take place; for the residue, after detonation, is quite free from cloudiness. It is remarkable, however, that ammonia. when fired., in certain proportions, with less oxygen than is required to saturate its combustible ingredient, is nevertheless coinpletely diecomposed. Part of its hydrogenis. sufficient for the saturation of the oxygenr; and the remaining hydrogen, and the whole nitrogen of the amimonia, together with that existing as an impurity in the oxygen employed, remain in a gaseous state, and compose a mixture, which may be inflamed by adding a second quantity o'f oxygen gas, and passing an electric spark.* In this way all the hydrogen of tharvolatile alkali may be saturated with oxygen,, and condensed into water; and the, whole of the. nitrogen may be obtained as a final result of the process. After determining the amount of the oxygen, consumed both in the first and second combustions, it is easy to calculate the quantity of hydrogen, in the saturationof which it has been employed; for when no nitrous acid has been formed, the hydrogen will be, pretty exactly, double in volume the oxygene which has been expended.* This is analogous to what happens, when ether, alcohol, or any of the aeriform compounds of carbon and hydrogen, are exploded with a deficient proportion of oxyx gen; for much of the hydrogen is found in the residuum in the state of gas, 'and again becomes susceptible of combustion after the addition of a second quan-tity of oxygen. (See Mr. CRUICKSHANK'S excellent papers in the 5th Vol-ume of NiCHOLSO'S Journals 4to.) .ir. HEENxRY'S Exeiments on Ammonia. 4 These general observaticms will tend to render the folb lowing experiments more intelligible. They may be divided into two classes, ist, those in mwhich ammonia was fired with an excessive proportion of oxygen-,; and 2dly, those in which the oxygen, used in the first combustion, was insufficient, or barely adequate, to saturate the whole hydrogen of the alkali'. 1. Decompo.sition of Ammonia by an Excess of oxygen Gas, Twenty-two measures and a third of ammonia were mixed with 4A oXygren containing 43 of pure gas. The total 67 became j4 when exploded. Water did not produce any farther diminution, but sulphuret of lime left only 8 measures. Now, 34 -8 =26 shews the quantity of oxygen gas, which escaped condensation; and this, deducted from the original quantity (4i3) gives 17 measures for the amount of the oxygen expended. The last number i7, being multiplied -by 2, gives 34 for the hydrogen apparently consumed. lL he final residue 8 .66 (the nitrogen introduced by the oxygen gas) = 6.34 is the nitrogen obtained from e22 of ammoniaa; anrd if to this the hydrogen be -added, 4O.34 measures of permanent gas w'llI be the total result. Hence ioo measures of the gas producible from ammonia, should. contain 84.,9 hydrogen -anld t.71 nitrogen ; numbers too remote from those, which have been already assigned, to be considered even as approximations to the truth. The error arises from the combination of oxygen, duin ng combustion, not only with the hydrogen, but with the nitrogen of the allkali, the latter of which consequently ppears deficient, and the former proportionably in excess. 31 IJ 440 Dr. HENRY'S Experiments on Ammonia. Frequent repetitions of this combustion, with a considerable excess of oxygen gas, continued to give a deficient proportion of nitrogen ; and as no accurate conclusions can be drawn from experiments of this kind, I shall proceed to those of the second class. II. Experiments, in which Ammonia was fired with a dcfent Proportion of oxygen Gas. Sixty-three measures of ammonia were exploded over mercury with Sg of oxygen gas containing one of nitrogen. The total 96, when fired by an electric spark, were diminished to 57 measures, which were not contracted any farther by successive agitation with water, and with sulphuret of lime. The whole of the ammonia, therefore, was decomposed; and all the oxygen had entered into combination with the hydrogen of the alkali. The residuary 57 measures were mingled with 40 measures of the same oxygen gas, and detonated by an electric spark; after which the total, 97, were reduced to 6o. The diminution, therefore, was 37 measures; and as two thirds of this number may be ascribed to the condensation of hydrogen gas, the residuary 57 must have been composed of 24.66 hydrogen, and 82.34 nitrogen. The oxygen expended, also, was 32 in the first combustion, +i 2 3 in the second 44.5 and this number, being doubled, gives 88.66 for the whole hydrogen saturated, supposing it to be in the state of hydrogen gas. But from the above quantity of nitrogene (32,34 measures) we are to deduct one measure, with which the 53 measures of oxygen were contaminated; and the remainder -.34 shews the number of measures of nitrogen, resulting from 6. measures of ammonia. The total amount of gases Dr. HENRY'S Experiments on Ammonia. 441 obtained is .1.e4 + 88.66= 120; and the proportion of the hydrogen by volumne to that of the nitrogen, as 73.88 to 26.1 9. To avoid the tediousness of similar details, I shall state, in the fortn of a table the results of a few experiments out of a number of others, all of which had, as nearly as could be expected, the same tendency. The sixth experiment in the table is the one which has been just described. I dence 0oo Meas. Permanent Gas Meas. of Meas. of Meas. of Meas. of of Ammonia. contains in loo No. of Amzmon. Oxygen Hydrugen fNitrogen ( AMeasuires Exp decom saturated. estimated, obtained. Take Giver r posed. Oxygen. Gas. Hydr. Nitr. 1 72 147-5 95 87 66 183 72 28 2 95 64 X128 46 67.5 183.3 73.5 26.5 '3 too 72.2 1444 54 72.2 98.5 72.8 28.2 4 74 51.7 103.4 37 69j8 i89 736 7 -4 5 49 33.7 67.4 9j 3 68-7 i80.2 72.7 27.3 6 63 44.3 88.6 8 I 33 70.3 193.5 73.9 26. 1 From an attentive examination of the foregoing table, it will appear that the results are not perfectly uniform, though perhaps as much as can be expected from the nature of the experiments. Thus the proportion of permanent gases to the ammonia decomposed (the nitrogen being actually measured, and the hydrogen estimated by doubling the oxygen expended) may be observed to differ considerably; the highest pro-duct being 1983-, and the lowest 180.2, from ioo of ammonia, Dr. HE'NRY'S Experiments on Ammonia. There. can scarcely be a doubt, however, that this want of coincidence is owing to the same cause, as that which I have already assigned for the variable proportions of permanent gas, ;which are obtained from equal quantities of ammonia by electrization. And, accordingly, I have found that the evolved gases, as ascertained by combustion, bear the smallest proportion to the ammonia, when most pains have been taken to obviate the presence of moisture. The lowest number, therefore, is to be assumed as most correct; but other circumstances being considered, I believe the second experiment furnishes the most accurate data for determining the composition of ammonia. The same explanation will apply to the different proportions of oxygen gas required for the saturation of ioo measures of ammonia, the -variation n o doubt arising from the uncertainty of the quantity of alkaline gas which is actually burned. The proportion of oxygen to ammonia, which I be. lieve to be nearest the truth, and most precisely necessary for mutual saturation, is that resulting from the second experiment, viz. 67.measures of oxygen gas to ioo of ammonia, or -loo of the former to 148 of the latter. it may be observed, also, by comparing the numbers in the two last columns of the table, that the hydrogen and nitrogen gases do not uniformly bear the same proportions to each other. Notwithstanding all the labour I have bestowed on the subject, I have not been able to -obtain a nearer correspondence, owing most probably to the imperfection of the mode of analyzing a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen gases. In the mixture of permanent gases, determined in this way, the hbydrogen, it may be remarked, bears generally rather a less ratio than that of 74 to 26. 1 do not, however, consider this Dr. HENRY'S Eperinmentts on Ammon Ia. fact as contradicting the accuracy of the proportions which you have assigned; and it appears to me that a sufficient reason may be given for the want of a more perfect coincidence betweenr results, obtained by such differentmethods of investigation. In the products of the electrization of ammonia, the hydrogen composes nearly threefourths of the mixture; and hence its combustion by oxygen gas is likely to be completely efected,. and the whole of the hydrogen condensed into water. But after the par tial combustion of am, mnonia, by oxygen gas, a residuum is left of hydrogen and: nitrogen gases,, of which the, hydrogen usually composes less, and some-times considerably less, than one half the bulk. In this case it may be suspe cted that a small quantity of hydrous gen occasionally escapes being burned; and whenever this happens its proportion to the nitrogen will appear to be lessthan the true one.* From the inflammability of a mixture of aminonia with oxygen gas, it was natural to expect that this alkali would prove susceptible of slow combustion By, means of a peculiar apparatus (on a plan which I have described in the Philosophical Transactions for i 8o8, part II. but on a smaller scale., and with the substitution of mercury for water), I have found, that ammonia, expelled from the orifice of a small steel burner, may be kindled by electricity in a vessel of oxygen gas ; and that it is slowly consumed with a pale yellow * This consideration suggests the propriety of using no more oxygen in the first combustion of' ammonia, than is barely sufficient to inflame it; or if a larger quanfity has been used than is required fr this putpose, and a residue consequently obls tained, of which the hydrogen forms only a small proportion, it is proper to add a farther quantity of hydrogen, before the second combustion. An allowance mayv afterwards be made for this addition. Dr4>. HEENRY'S eriments on Ammonia. flame. The combustion, however, is not sufficiently vivid to render the process of any use in the analysis of ammonia. With nitrous oxide (containing only 5 per cent. impurity) ammonia forms a mixturewhich is extremely combustible. If the nitrous oxide be in excess, the proportions have a considerable range; for any mixture may be fired by electricity, of which the ammonia is not less than one-sixth of the whole. The combustion is followed by a dense cloud, sometimes of an orange colour. When the nitrous oxide greatly exceeds the ammonia, (as in the proportion, for example, of ioo to 3o) there is little or no diminution after firing: and the residuum is composed of a small portion of undecomposed oxide, some oxygen gas, and a considerable quantity of nitrogen, the last of which, however, is not in' its full proportion. When the nitrous oxide is further increased, still more oxygen is found in the residuum. When, on the contrary, the alkaline gas is redundant, combustion does not take place unless the nitrous oxide forms one-third of the mixture. A little diminution takes place on firing, but no cloudiness is observed; and the residue is composed of hydrogen and nitrogen gases, with occasionally a small portion of undecomposed ammonia. As an example of what takes place, I select the following experiment from several others. A mixture of 41 measures of ammonia, with 40 of nitrous oxide(=z 38 pure), in all 81 measures, were reduced by combustion to 75, which were found to consist of i6 hydrogen and 5?9 nitrogen gases. To explain this experiment, we may assume (as is consistent with your own analysis *) that ioo* Researches, Res. ii. Div. i, or Thomson's System of Chemistry, 3d edit. ii. 14$3 Dr. HEINRY's Exrperinents on Anmmonia. 445 measures of nitrous oxide, are equivalent to So meas ues of oxygen gas and 1o0 of nitrogen. The oxygen in 38 meal sures of nitrous oxide will, therefore, be 19,7, to which, when the oxygen spent in burning the residuum (viz. 8 mn. is added, we obtain 27,7 for the total oxygen consumed ; abtd multiplying by 2, we have A for the hydrogen saturated. From the residuary nitrogen (59) deduct 39 measures arising fronm the decomposition of the nitrous oxide + X m., mingled with it as an impurity 41, and the remainder, i8 measures, is the nitrogen resulting from the volatile alkali; and as 41 measures of ammonia give 554 + 4 8 734 measures of permanent gas, ioo would give 179 measures, in which the hydrogen and nitrogen would exist in the proportion of 75,44 to 24,6. From the same facts it may be deduced, that ioo measures of ammonia require for saturation 130 of nitrous oxide 671A oxygen gas. The coincidence then, between the results of the combustion of ammonia with nitrous oxide, and those with oxygen gas, confirms the accuracy of both methods of analysis. NITROUS GAS, which, it appears from your testimony,* does not compose an inflammable mixture with hydrogen, (nor as I am assured by Mr. DALTON, with any of the varieties of carburetted hydrogen) may be employed, I find, for the combustion of ammonia. The proportions required for mutual saturation are about g20 measures of nitrous gas to 0oo of ammonia. An excess of the former gas does not give accurate results; since not only the hydrogen of the ammonia, but some of its nitrogen is also condensed; and the mixture, after being fired, exhibits the cloudy appearance usual in that case.* Researches, p. 136.MDCCCIX. 3 M 446 lE~Dr. HENRY'S Experinments on Ammonza, Forty-eight. measures of ammonia, being fired with Go nitrous gas, (53 pure) both gases were completely decomposed and a residue left consistin of 6i nitrogen and g hydrogen. Sixty measures of ammonia and 41 nitrous gas (= 36,1 pure) gave, after firing, a mixture composed of io ammonia, 532 nitrogen, and 3.o hydrogen. But taking for granted-that coo measures of nitrous gas, according to your -analysis, hold in combination a quantity of oxygen equal to S7jn easures of oxygen gas, and of nitrogen equal to 481 measures, and assuming the proportions of the nitrogen and hydrogen in ammonia, to be those established by your experiments 'and mry own. It will appear from an easy calculation, that the proportion of nitrogen, in the above residual a little exceeds, and that of the hydrogen rather falls short of what might have been expected. I have not yet been able to reconcile these differences, by the numerous trials required in a process of so much delicacy; and I reserve the enquiry 'for a season of more leisure. The foregoing statement, I wish to be considered as merely announcing the general fact ,of the combustibility of a mixture of ammonia, and nitrous gas, a property which chiefly derives importance, from its being capable of application to a new method of analysing the latter. Before concluding this letter, I shall briefly state the re_~ sults of some experiments, which I have lately made in conjunction with Mr. DALTON, on a subject that formerly occupied much, of my attention ; viz, the effect of electricity on the aeriform compounds of carbon and hydrogen. Subsequent Dr. HENRY'S Experimens.'on Ammonai. 4447 reflection, as xvell as the candid and judicious criticisms of various writers,* have influenc ed me to doubt oft the accuracy of a few of the conclusions drawn from my former inrquiries.t The knowledge of this class of 'bodies has, also, ieen so materially advanced during the last twelve years, that the exam mination of their properties may now be undertaken, with much greater confidence and success than formerly. It is-to be lamented, indeed, that experimentalists do not oftener retrace their labours, with the combined advantages of acquired skill, and of a more improved state of the science which they investigate. The gases, submitted by Mr. DALTON and myself to the action of long continued electrization, were carburetted hy. drogen from pit-coal of the specific gravity of about 65o (air being iooo) olefiant gas, and carbonic oxide. Each gas was used in as pure a state as possible; muriate of lime being first introduced into the same tubes in which the gases were electrifled, and being withdrawn when it had exerted its full action. Platina wires were used to convey the electric discharges. When the electrization of carburetted hydrogen or olefiant gases was continued sufficiently long, they were each. found to expand, notwithstanding their extreme dryness. No carbonic acid could be discovered in the electrified gas lby the nicest tests. When fired with oxygen, it gave less carbonicSee BERTHOLLRT'S ChemicalStatics,EEng.trans. Vol. II..p. 54.; MURRAT.Yi Elements of Chemistry, Vol. I. Note G; a letter from an: anonymnous correspondent hi NiCHOL oN'S Journa 8vo. Ii.i85; ard AdiKiN's Dictionary of Chemistry, 1. 2ai t " Experiments on Carbonated Hydrogen Gas, with a View to determine whethCarbon be a simple or a compound body." Phil. Trans.,Vol. LXXYVIL.Q M 2, 418 Dr. HENRY'S Experiments on Ammoniab acid than the unexpanded gas, and required less oxygen for saturation. Calculatingr, from the diminished product of car, bonic acid, how much gas had been decomposed by electriza. tion, it appeared that the decomposed part, in all cases, was about doubled. The smaller product of carbonic acid from the electrifiede gas,, was sufficiently explained by a deposition of charcoal on the inner surface of the glass tube, too distinct to be at all equivocal, and most abundant from the olefiant gas. No addition whatsoever of nitrogen was made by the electrization. It appears, therefore,, that the hydro-carburetted gases, like ammonia, are separated by electrization into their elements, the carbon being precipitated, and the hydrogen evolved in a separate'form, and acquiring a state of greater expansion. This change, however, is effected much more siowly, thant the disunion of the elements of ammonia. From a portion of carbonic acid gas, carefully dried by muriate of limhe, and electrized with platina conductors, we obtained, after removing the undecomposed gas by caustic potash, a residuum equal to about one twentieth the whole gas which had been employed. It was founds on, analysis to con. sist of oxygen and carbonic oxide gases, in such proportions asto inflame on, passing an electric spark through it without any addition, and, to be thus convertible again into carbonic acid. In the experimentsof M. SAUssuRE, jun.* that ingenious philosopher obtained only carbonic oxide by the same operas. tion, owing doubtless to the electricity having been conveyed -by conductors of copper, which would become oxidized, and, prevent the oxygen from being evolved in a separate form, Carbonic oxide, electrified with similar precautions, did not* Journal de Physique, Toom. LIV. p. 450. Dr. JIENRY'S Experizments ont Amnonica. 4D appear to undergo any change. Eleven hundred discharges from a Leyden jar had no effect on a quantity of thea gass; equal to about one tenth of a cubic inlch. Its bulk, after thqis process, was unaltered; no carbonic acid could be discovered in it; and there was no decided trace of oxyT-n gas in the residuum. The carbon, it apopears, ther.2,fore, which,' exists inw carbonic oxide, must be. helc combiped by an extremely strong, affinity. With sincere esteem and respect, r am, Dear Sir, Your faithful and obliged friend, WM. HENRY. 