L 10,3 IV. On the Fornatibh of the Bark of Trees. In a Letterfrom T. A. Knight, Esq. F. R. S. to the R'ght Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, K. B. P. R. S. &c. Read February 19, 1807. MY DEAR SIR, AN extraordinary diversity of opinion appears to have pro. vailed among naturalists, respecting the production and sub-. ,sequent state of the bark of trees. According to the theory of MALPIG1II, the cortical substance, which is annually generated, derives its origin from theolder bark; and the interior Part of this new substance is annually transmuted into alburnum, or sap wood; whilst the exterior part, becoming dry and lifeless forms the exter Covering, or cortex. The opinions of GREW do not appear to differ much from those Of MALPIGHI ; but he conceives the interior bark to consist of two distinct substances, one of which becomes albur num, whilst the other remains in the state of bark: he, however, supposes the insertments in the wood, the " utriculi" of MALPIGHI, and the "tissu cellulaire" of Du HAMEL, to have originally existed in the bark. HALES on the contrary contends, that the bark derives its existence from the alburnum, and that it does not undergo. any subsequent transformation. The discoveries of Du HAMEL have thrown much light 1044 Mr. KNIGHTOn the Formation on the subject; but his experiments do not afford any conclusive result and some of them may be adduced in support of either of the preceding hypotheses: and a modern writer (MIRBEL*) has endeavouredto combine and reconcile, in some degree, the apparently discordant theories of MALPIGHI and HALES. He contends with HALES, that the alburnum gives existence to the new layer of bark; but that this bark subsequently changes into alburnlui, though not precisely in the manner described by MALPIGJI11. So much difference of opinion, amongst men so capable of observing, sufficiently evinces the difficulty of the subject-they endeavoured to investigate: and in a course of experiments which has -occupied more than twenty years, I have scarcely felt -myself prepared, till the present time, even to give an opinion respecting the manner, in which the cortical substance is generated in the ordinary course of its growth; or reproduced, when that, which previously existed, has been taken off. Du HAMEL has shewn, that the bark -of 'some species of trees is readily reproduced, when 'the decorticated surface of the alburnum, is secluded from the air-; and I have repeated similar experiments on the apple, the' sycamore, and other trees, with the same result; I have also often observed a similar reproduction of bark on the surface of the alburnum of the Wych elm (Ulmus monitana), iZn shady situations, vhenno, covering whatever was applied. A glareous fluid, as Du HAMEL has stated, exudes from the surface of the alburnum: this fluid appears to change into a pulpo'us unorganised mass, which subsequently becomes organised and cellular; and the ' Traite d'Anafomie et de Physiologie vegetales of the Bark of Trees., 05 matter, whichi enters into the composition of this cellular substance, is evidently derived from the alburnum. These facts are therefore extremely favourable to the theory of HALES; but other facts may be adduced which -are scarcely consistent with that theory. T'he internal surface of pieces of bark, when detached from contact with the alburnum, provided they remain united to the tree at their upper ends, much more readily generate a new bark, than the alburnum does under similar circumstances: a similar fluid exudes from the surfaces of both, and the same phenomena are observable in both cases. The cellular sub stance, however, which is thus generated,< though it presents every external appearanceof a perfect bark, is internally very imperfectly organized; and the vessels which contain the true sap in the bark, are still wanting; and I have found, that these may be made, by appropriate management, to traverse the new cellular substance in almost any direction. When I cut off all communication above, and on one side, between the old bark and that substance, I observed, that the vessels proceeded across it, from the old bark on the other side, taking always in a greater or less degree an inclination downwards; and when the cellular substance remained united to the bark at its upper end only, the vessels descended nearly perpendicularly down it; but they did not readily ascend into it, when it was connected with the bark at its lower extremity only; the result of similar experiments, when made on different species of trees, was, however, subject to some variations. Pieces of bark of the walnut-tree, which were two inches MDCCCVII, P 1o6 Mr.KNIGHT on the Formation broad, and four. long, having been detached from contact with the.alb urnum, -except at their upper ends, and covered with a plaister composed of bees-wax and turpentine, in some instances,. and,, with clay only in others, readily generated the cellular.substance of a new bark; and between thatdand the old. detached. bark, very nearly as much alburnu-m was deposited,,as in. other. parts of the tree, where the bark retained its na~tural.,,position;which, I think, affords very. decisive evidence of ,the descent of the sap through the bar-k.Similar piec es, of bark, under. the same mode: of treatment, but united to xthe tr ee, at their e lower ends ,only, did not long remain alive,.except at their lower extremities ; and there a very little alb.urnu-m, only--was, generated. Other-pieces of bark of the same dimensions, which, were laterally united to the tree, continued alivealmost to -their, extremities; and a considerable portion of alburnum was: generated, particularly near their lower edges&;. the sap appearing in its passage acrosslthe bark .to have. been given a considerable inclination downwards. probably owing toman arrangement in the organization. of the. bark, that.., I.have noticed in a former memoir,* which. renders it better calculatedl to transmit the sap towards the roots th-an, in -any other -directioni.t I have ,in very few instances. been. able to -make the walnuttr~ee repr~oduce i-tsbark -from the albtrnum, though under the same.. management I rarely failed to succeed with the sycamore and apple-tree. Pieces. of the, bark of the apple-tree will also live, ad generate a small portion of alburnum, t~hou-gh.on~ly attac~hed -to.thetree at their lower extremities;Philhsopical Transactions of I804 of the Bark of Trees* 107 probably owing to a small part of :''the true sap being carried upwards by capillary attraction, when the proper action of the cortical vessels is necessarily suspended.' The preceding experiments, and' the authrity of DHA-MEL, having perfectly satisfied mee, that both the allburnum -andbark of trees are capable of generating a new bark, or at least of transmitting:a fluid capable of generating a cellular substance, to which the bark -in its mnore -perfectly organized state' owes its'existence, my attention was, directed to discover the sources from which this fluid is deriv'ed. 'Both' the bark and -the. alburnum of trees are composed principally of two -,substances ,one of which consists of long tubes, and 'the oither is cellular; aind the cellular substance':of the bark' is`iin -contact with the: similar substance in the alburnum, and through these I have long suspected the true 'sap to pass 'from' the vessels of lthe bark to. those of the alburnum.* The intricate mixture of the cellular and'vasc, ular substancesl'long baffled my endeavours to duiscover from which of themt," in the pre ceding cases, the sap, and consequently the new bark','' proceeded; but I was ultimately successful. The cellular substance, both in the albuurnum and hark of old pollard oaks, often exists in masses of near a line in width, and this organization was peculiarly favourable tL 'my purpose. I therefore repeatedon the itrunks of trees of"this kind, experiments similar to those -above-.mentioned -hich were made on the walnut-tree. Apparently owing to the small quantity of sap, which 'the old pollard trees contained, their bark was very imperfectly reproduced; but I observed a fluid to ouze from the cellular* Phil. Trans. t80o, page 4.p 2 108 Mr. KNGHT on the Formation substance, both of the bark -and alburnum; and on the surtface of these substances alone, in many instances, the new bark was reproduced in small detached pieces. I have endeavoured to prove in frmer communications$, that the true sap of trees acquires those properties which distinguish it from the fluid recently absorbed, by circulating through the leaf; and that it descends down, the bark, where part of itis: employed in generating -the new substances annually added to the tree; and that the remainder, not thus expended, passes --into:; the alburnum, and Othere joins the :ascendling 'current of-sap. The cellular substance, both of the bark and alburnum, has been proved, in the preceding experiments, to be capable of : affording the sap a passage through 'it; and therefore it -appears not very improbable, that it executes an office similar to that-of the anastomosing vessels of the animal economy, whenthe cellular surfaces of the bark and alburnum are in contact with each other; -and, whenr detached, it may be inferred, that the passing fluid will exude from both -surfaces: because almost all the vessels of trees appear to be capable of an inverted action in giving motion to the fluids which they carry. As the power of generatinga new bark appeared in the preceding cases to exist-alike inthe sap of the bark and of thealburnum, I was anxious to discover how far the fluid., which ascends through the central vessels of the succulent annual -shoot, is endued with similar powers. Having therefoe made-two circular incisions through the bark, round the`stems of several annual shoots of the vine, as early in the summer as the alburnum within them had acquired sufficient* Phil, Trans. i8oi, iSo5, and I8o6. of theBark of Trees. 109 maturity to perform its office of carrying up the sap, I took off the bark between these incisions and I abraded the surface of the albturnum to prevent a reproduction of -it. The alburnum in the decorticated spaces soon became externally dry and lifeless; and several incisions were then made longitudinally through it. The incisions commenced a little above, and extended below the decorticated spaces, so that, if the sap of the central vessels generated a cellular substance (as I concluded it would), that substance might come into contact and form a union with the substance of the same kind emitted by the bark above andbelow. The experiment succeeded perfectly, and the cellular sub. stances generated by the central-vessels, and the bark, soon united, and a perfect vascular bark was subsequently formed beneath the alburnum, and appeared perfectly to execute the oflice of that which had been taken off; the medulla appeared to be wholly inactive. I have already observed, that the vessels, which were generated in the cellular substance on the surface of the alburnum of the sycamore and the apple-tree, traversed that substance in almost every direction; and the same thing appears to occur beneath the old bark, when united to-the alburnum. For having attentively examined through every part of the spring and summer, the formation of the internal bark, and alburnous layer beneath it, round the bases ;ofregenerated buds, which I had made to spring from smooth spaces on the roots and stems of trees, I found every appearanceperfectly consistent with the preceding observations. A single shoot only was suffered to spring from each root and stem, and. from the base of this, in every instance the cortical vessels 1 to Mr. KNIGHT on: the Fomation dispersed themselves in different directions. Some descended ,-perpendicul ,arly:,downwards, whilst others diverged' on each side,, round. the alburnum, with more or less inclination down wa~rd~s4 and, me~t onthe opposite side of it. The same pulpous and cellular substance appared to cover the surfaces of the barkand alburnum, when in contact with each other, as whe' detached;fi and through this; substance the ramifications of the vessels of the new bark extended themselves, appearing to receive their+ direction from the fluid sap which-descended .from; the -bark of the young shoots, and not to be, in any degree, influenced in theircourse by the direction taken by the cortical and alburnous vessels of the, preceding year. ;--Whenever the vessels of the bark, which proceeded from -different points, met each other, an interwoven texture was -produced, and the alburnum beneath acquired a similar organisation-: -and the same thing occurs, and is productive of very important effects, in the ordinary course of the growth of trees.:The >bark. of the principal stem, and of every lateral branch, contains very numerous vessels, which are charged w~ith..the ;descending true.. sap; --and at the junctureaof the lateral branch with, the stem, these vessels meet each other. A kind of pedestal of alburnum,_ the texture of which is much interwoven, is in consequence formed round the base of the lateral branch; which thus becomes firmly united to the tree. This pedestal, though apparently a part of the branch, derives *a largew .po~rtion of the mater,. annuallyv added to.:, it, from the cortical-vessels of thee principal stem ; anid thence, in the event of the death of the lateral branch, it always continues to live. of the:,de~~~~~~~a'thof~~ th; ' I' i' N But it not unfrequently happens, that a lateral brangh forms .a very acute angle with the principal stem, and, in this case, of the :Bark of Trees-. at the bark between .them becomes compressed and inactive; no, pedestal is, in consequence formed,&andthe -attachment of such a branch tlothe stem becomes extremely feebleand, insecure.* Instead of the reprduced butds of the preceding experimente, buds were insertedlW the foregoing; summer, or attached by grafting in the spring; and, when these succeeded, though they were in many instances taken from trees of different species, and even of different genera, no sensible difference existed in the vessels, which; appearedto diverge into the bark of: the stock, from these budsanid from those reproduced in the preceding experiments. It appears, therefore, probable, that a pulpous organisable mass first derives its matter either from the bark, or the alburnum ; and-that this matter subsequently forms the new layer of bark; -for, if the vessels had proceeded, as. radiclest from the -inserted buds, or grafts, suchvessels would-have been, in some degree, different from the natural vessels of the bark of the stocks; and it does not appear probable, even without referring to the preceding facts, that vessels should be extended in a few days, by parts successively added to their* The advantages, which may be obtained by pruning timber trees judiciously. appear to be very little known. I have endeavoured to ascertain the practicability of giving to trees such forms -as will render their timber more advantageously convert tible, to naval or other purposes. The success of the experiments, on small trees has been complete, and the reults perfectly consistent, in every case, with thebtheory I have endeavoured to support in former memoirs; and I am confident, that by appropriate management, the trunks and branches of growiangtrees may be moulded into the various forms best adapted to the use of the ship-;builder;' and that the growth of the trees may at the same time be rendered considerably more rapid, without any expense or temporary loss to the proprietor. f ;Darwin's Phytologia. Mr. KNIGHT on the Form'ation extremities, from the leaves to the extremities of the roots; which are, in many instances, moret -than two hundred feet distant from each other. I am, therefore, inclined to believe, that, as the preceding facts seem to indicate, the -matter, which composes the new bark, acquires an organisation calculated to transmit the true sap towards the roots as that fluid progressively descends from the leaves in the spring; but whether the matter, which enters into the composition of the new bark, be derived from the bark or the alburnum, in the ordinary course of the growth of the tree, it will be extremely difficult to ascertain. It is, however, no difficult task to prove, that the bark does not, in all cases, spring from the alburnum; for many cases may be adduced in which it is always generated previously to the existence of the alburnum beneath it: but none, I believe, in which the external surface of the alburnum exists previ-. ously to the bark in contact with it, except when the cortical substance has been taken off, as in the preceding experiments. In the radicle of germinating seeds, the cortical vessels elongate, and new portions of bark are successively added to their points, many days before any alburnous substance is generated in them; and in the succulent annual shoot the formation of the bark long precedes that of the alburnum. In the radicle the sap appears alsoevidently to descend* through the cortical vessels,t and in the succulent annual shoot it as evidently passes up through the central* Phil. Trans. i8o0 and i8o6. t I wish it to be understood, that I exclude in these remarks, and in those contained in my former Memoirs, all trees of the palm kind, with the organisation of which I am almost wholly unacquainted. of/he Bark of Trees. 113 vessels,* which surround the medulla. In both cases a cellular substance, similar to that which was generated in, the preceding experiments, is first formed and this cellular substance in the same manner subsequently becomes vascular; whence it appears, that the true sap, or blood of the plant, produces similar effects and passes through similar stages of organisation, when it flows' from differet -sources, and that the power of generating a new bark, properly speaking, belongs neither to the bark nor alburnum, but to a fluid, which pervades alike the vessels of both. I shall, therefore, not attempt to decide on the merits of the theory of MALPIGHI, or of HALES, respecting the reproduction of the interior bark; but I cannot by any means admit the hypothesis of MALPIGHI and other naturalists, relative to the transmutation of bark into alburnum,; and-I propose to state my reasons for rejecting that hypothesis, in the next communication I have the honour to address to you. I am, my dear Sir, Your much obliged obedient Servant, T. A. KNIGHT. Elton, Dec. 8, i&oG6.* Phil. Trans. i8o05. MIRDEL has called the tubes, which l call the central ves, Sels, the " tissu tubulaire" of the medulla.MDCCCVII. Q 