J STOR Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. (6097) A Description of a Bee-house,useful for preventing the Swarming of Bees, used in Scotland with good success; whereof one, sent by a worthy Gentleman, Sir William Thomson,may be seen in Gresham Colledg. THough we find several Draughts of different Bee-hives, to the intention of preventing swarming,in Mr. Hartlibs Common-wealth of Bees; yet since none of those wayes proved so effectual,as may justly exclude second thoughts and further experience, the Publisher thought it not amiss to present the curious with the following Form, and its description, wherein he thinks the Reader will meet with several improvements of those attempts that were made before. Fig. I. Tab. I. A The Bee-house lying on one side with the Frame placed in it. BBBBBBBB The Frame. CCCC The Screw-pinns that hold the Frame fast. D The Square Hole at Top open. E The Windows. F The Door for the Bees to go in and out. G The Place by which the knife enters to cut the HoneyCombs asunder upon occasion. HH The inward crease at the bottom. Fig. II. Tab. I. A The Beehouse set upright. B The Square-hole through which the Bees work downward. C The Shutter that covers the hole upon occasion. D The Door for the Bees. E A sliding Shutter that covers the Door in winter. F The Window. GG The handles for lifting all. HH The Crease for fastning one Bee-house over another. Fig. III. Tab. I. A The Frame for the Bees to fasten their work upon. BB The Screw-nails. The Bee-house is made of wainscoat, about 16 Inches in height and 23 in breadth between opposite sides. It hath 8 sides, each almost 9 Inches in breadth. It is close covered at Top (6077) Top with bords having a square hole in the midle, 5 Inches long, and about 4 Inches broad; with a Shutter that slides to and fro in a groove about half an Inch longer than the hole. It hath 2 windows, opposite to one another, and may have more of any figure with panes of Glass and Shutters. The Door for the Bees is divided into 3 or 4 holes, about half an Inch wide, and as high; with a shutter that slides in a Groove to cover them in winter. It hath 2 Iron-handles with joynts to be placed about the midle, if there be no windows on the sides where they are; or above them, if there be.At Top it hath a Crease all round it about half an Inch in depth on the out-side, and 11/2 Inch high; and an other on the Inside at the bottom, which serves to fix them when set upon one another. It hath also a hole about 2 Inches in height and as much in breadth on one side at bottom, by which the knife is put in to cut the Bee's work, that passes through the Hole from one Bee-house into another as they work downwards into the empty house; which hath a sliding Shutter to cover it. Within the Beehouse there is a square frame made of 4 Postes joyned at top, at bottom and in the midle with 4 sticks, for the Bees to fasten their work upon: which though they will serve, yet it may be securer to have two more added in every of their places crossing the frame either from the midle of the opposite sidesticks, or from Angles where the posts are placed. This manner of Bee-house is useful for preventing the Swarming of Bees: For, when the Bee-house wants room for the young Bees, 'tis known that they swarm and fly away to find a house for themselves: which is prevented by placing an empty one made thus under the full one, having the door at Top open, that they may work downwards into it. And when both are full, the Bees will all be in the Lowest house; and then, to get the honey and wax without destroying or troubling the Bees, with a thin long knife, broad at the end and sharp on both sides,the Bees work is to be cut as low as can be, and the uppermost Bee-house to be lifted off by the handles, and being reversed, the screws are to be taken out, and then the Frame with all the Bees-work upon it will easily slip out, and so the empty Bee-house may be forthwith set under the other, if need be, and the uppermost having the SquareM m m m m m 2 hole (6078) hole above covered with the Shutter, some other cover may be set over it to keep the Bees from the iujuries of the weather. And if this separation be made in the Spring or Summer, the Bees will like their new house the better that it hath been used before. What else is to be done, as to the right ordering and management of Bees, is to be learnt from the Authors that write of it, and from persons that are best experienced in it. Tab. I. Transact.No.96. Fig. 1 G C C B B H B B H A E D E F B B B B Fig. 3. C C A Fig. 2. B H H B B A C G G F E D 