(4094) Two Observations about Stones found, the one in the Bladder of a Dogg, the other fastned to the Back-bone of a Horse: both mentioned in two Roman Journals de Letterati. 1. THE Dogg was a pretty Spaniel, two palms and a half high, white,and an excellent setter for Quails. Being kept tyed, as such doggs are wont to be, he would rather have burst than urine or dung in the place where he was kept. By reason of his aptness to bite, he was cut when he was five years old, and two years after that, he began to urine with much difficulty. Whereupon as often as he was let loose, he ran presently into the Garden and fell to eat of Pellitory of the Wall, and Fig-leaves. This disease continued upon him for five years together, sometimes with that violence that his Master had him siringed, and anointed with oyl of Scorpions, and used other remedies to help the poor creature. At length he died at twelve years of age, and being opened by a skilful Anatomist, there was found in his bladder a stone weighing an ounce, of an irregular figure, white,yet here and there with some reddish specks; and in the bottom of the bladder was found store of small white gravel, and in the mouth of the urinal passage a stone as big as a great pine-kernel, white and tender. The rest of the body was all swelled. It may be noted here (saith the Italian Journalist) that Matthiolus and others say, that the Juice of Pestitory doth much provoke urine; and that it doth so especially, when being heated upon a tile and sprinkled with a little Malmesy, it is applied to the part. And as to Fig-leaves, he adds, that Physicians adscribe to Figs an abstersive vertue. opening the body and cleansing the reins: Of which vertue the Leaves may perhaps participate. Thus Brutes seem to know,without any direction from a Dioscorides, or Matthiolus, or other Botanist, the herbs proper for their diseases. 11. The other Stone, that was fasten'd to the back-bone of a Spanish Gelding, that died at the age of between thirteen and fourteen years, weighed four ounces and an half; it was round (4095) round and a little flatted; of an olive colour, marked with red specks, like coagulated blood; and so polished and shining,that it reflected Images. It was wrapped up in a membrane full of fat,and fastned on both ends to the back-bone, over against the Kidneys. Though this Horse had been dead twelve hours before it was opened; yet was it still very warm, and kept that warmth above six hours after it was opened. This stone is kept among the Rarities of Signor Bartolini, an Italian Riding-master. 