J STOR Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. An Extract of a Letter, relating an Experiment made for altering the Colour of the Chyle in the Lacteal Veins, by Martin Lister Esq;. THe passage of the Chyle through the Intestines into the Lacteal Veins, is a thing hitherto demonstrated to the Eye by none. Dr. Lower ingeniously confesseth the ill success he had in trying with Aer, or with tinged Spirit of Wine; by neither of which he was able to force a passage. And J.Walaus (Epist.de motu Chyli) is very positive, that however the Chyle in the Intestines may be diversly coloured; yet it is still white in the Lacteal Veins. And Diemerbrosk in his late Anatomy Published 1672. (p. 37.) affirms, Chylum semper album inveniri in Vafts Lacteis Mesenterieis & Thoracicis--viridem vero rubrum alteriusve coloris, in iis a nemine hact~ ~ suisse. Notwithstanding which, and my own former unsuccessful Tryals (Phil. Trans. Numb.95.) I did not doubt but that some happy Experiment would shew the contrary; and a purposely coloured Chyle might find admittance into the Lacteal Veins though not by force, yet by the Consent and Introduction of Nature her selfThe success of some late Experiments I made to this purpose, I shall here acquaint you with. Ex(9) Experiment I. I caused a Dog to be fed, and after four hours, or thereabout; and having ready by me a clear Tincture of Indigo, dissolved in fair Water and filtred, I opened the Abdomen,and making a small Incision in the Jejunum, I injected an ounce or two. This done, we stitch'd up the Gut, and all, again, and the Dog turned upon his Leggs. After one hour and a quarter, we cut the stiches; and then beheld a copious Distribution of Chyle and turgid Lacteal Veins; but as white as ever. And yet carefully searching the Guts, we perceived none of the Injected Liquor any where. Exper. II. Another Dog, which was kept fasting 40 hours, had a very little flesh, without water, given him, about 5 hours before the Injection of the Tincture of Indigo; which was performed after the same manner, as before: only it was now well warmed, and about Twelve Ounces thrown up the Duodenum, and down the Ileon. Here were empty Guts, and not the least appearance of any Lacteal Veins in the Mesentery. After full 3 hours, the Stiches were cut again (some business hindring me from doing of it sooner) and carefully examining the Mesentery, we found many Lacteal Veins of an Azure Colour; and cutting some of the bigest of them asunder, we plainly saw a thick blewish Chyle to issue forth, and to spread it self over the transparent Membranes of the Mesentery, This is a very truth, which the Chirurgeon I employed to assist me, in the Experiment, can well witness, whose Eyes I used, as well as my own, in carefully examining these matters. Whence, although it hath been doubted of by some, yet is it most evident, That the Lacteal Veins receive, what they carry,from within the Cavity of the Intestines. B A Cor