An Account of Four Suns, which very lately appear'd in France, and of two Raine-bows, unusually posited, seen in the same Kingdom, somewhat longer agoe. These Phaenomena are thought worthy to be inserted here, for the Speculation of the Curious in those Kingdoms; as they were publisht in the French Journal des Scavans, of May 10. 1666. viz. The 9th of April of this present year, about half an hour past nine, there appear'd three Circles in the Sky. One of them was very great, a little interrupted, and white every where, without the (220) the mixture of any other colour. It passed through the midst of the Sun's Disk, and was parallel to the Horizon. Its Diameter was above a hundred degrees, and its Center not far from the Zenith. The Second was much less and defective in some places, having the Colours of a Rainbow, especially in that part, which was within the great Circle. It had the true Sun for its Center. The Third was less, than the first, but greater than the secend; it was not entire, but only an Arch or Portion of a Circle, whose Center was far distant from that of the Sun, and whose circumference did, by its middle, join to that of the least Circle, intersecting the greatest Circle by its two extreams. In this Circle were discerned also the Colours of a Rainbow, but they were not so strong, as those of the Second. At the place, where the circumference of this Third Circle did close with that of the Second, there was a great brightness of Rainbow-Colours, mixt together: And at the two extremities, where this Second Circle intersected the First, appear'd two Parhelia's or Mock-suns; which shone very bright, but not so bright, nor were so well defined, as the true Sun. The False Sun, that was towards the South, was bigger, and far more luminous, than that towards the East. Besides those two Parhelia's, which were on the two sides of the true Sun, in the intersection of the First and Third Circle, there was also upon the First great Circle, a third Mock-sun, situated to the North, which was less and less bright, than the two others. So that at the same time there were seen Four Suns in the Heavens. Figure II. will illustrate the Position of this Phaenomenon. A. The Zenith or the Point Vertical of the place of Observation. R. The true Sun. S C H N. The great Circle, altogether White, almost parallel to the Horizon, which pass'd through the true Sun's Diske, and upon which were the false Suns. D E B O. A Rain-bow about the Sun, forming an entire Circle, but interrupted in some places. H D N. A portion of a Circle, that was Excentrick to the Sun, and greater than the Circle D E B O, which touch'd D E B O, and was confounded with it in the point D. H N. The (221) H N. The two Mock-Suns, in the intersection of the Semicircle H D N, and the Circle S C H N: The midst of which two FalseSuns was white and very luminous; and their Extremities towards D I were tinged with the Colours of a Rainbow. The False Sun, mark'd N, was fainter than that, which is mark'd H. C. The Mock-Sun, all white, and far less shining, than the two others. I. A space very dark betwixt R. and D. This Appearance is look't upon as one of the notablest, that can be seen, by reason of the Excentricity of the Circle H D N, and because that the Parhelia * were not in the Intersection of the Circle D E B O with the great Circle S C H N, but in that of the Semi-circle H D N. * Those Five Suns, that appear'd the 29 March, A. 1629. at Rome, between 2 or 3 of the Clock, in the afternoon, were thus posited; that the two of them, which were in the intersection of two Circles, appear'd in that of a Circle, which passed through the Sun's Diske, with another, that was Concentrick to the Sun: as may be seen in Figure III. borrow'd (for the easier eomparing them together) out of Des-Cartes his Meteors, cap. X. As for the two odd Rainbows; they appear'd at Chartres the 10. of August, 1665. about half an hour past six in the Evening; and did cross one another almost at right Angles, as may be seen by Fig. IV. The Rainbow, which was opposite to the Sun, in the usual manner, was more deeply colour'd, than that, which cross'd it; though even the Colours of the first lris were not so strong, as they are now and then seen at other times. The greatest height of the stronger Rainbow, was about 45. degrees; the feebler Rainbow lost one of its Legs, by growing fainter, about 20 degrees above the stronger; and the Leg below appear'd continued to the Horizon. These Rainbows did not Just decussate one another at right Angles; there was some 6 or 7 degrees difference. The fainter, seem'd to be a Portion of a great Circle; and the stronger was but a Portion of a small Circle, as usually. The Sun, at their appearance, was about 6 degrees high above the Horizon, and towards the 17 Azimuth of the West, Northward. The (222) The Observer, M. Estienne, notes, that, when he made this Observation, the River of Chartres, which runs very near from South to North, was betwixr him and the Rainbow; and that he stood Level with this River, whence he was distant not above 150 paces: which he adds, that the Curious may the better judge of this Observation. B A Fig.I. S C G E F C K I Fig.III. Fig.IV. 