XV. Observations uponz Luminous Anmnals. By J. M acta m2ie'Esq. Communicated by Everard Home, Esq. FR . S. Read May 17th, i8io. 1E property which certain animals possess of emitting ligh t, is so curious and interesting, that it has attracted tle attc-intion of naturalists in all ages. It was particularly noticed by ARISTOTLE and PLINY amongst the ancients, and the publications of the different learned societies in Europe, contain numerous memoirs upon the subject. Notwithstanding the degree of regard bestowed upon the history of luminlous animals, it is still very imperfect; the power of producing light appears to have been attributed to several creatures which do not possess it; some species which enjoy it in an eminent degree, have been imperfectly describe d or entirely unobserved, the organs which afford the light in certain animals have not been examined by dissection; and lastly, the explanations that have been given of the phenomena of animal light, are unsatisfactory, and in some instances paid pably erroneous. As this subject forms an interesting part of the history of' organized beings, I have for some years availed myself of such opportunities as occurred for its investigation. Having comrmunicated the result of some of my researches to the Right Honourable Sir JoSEPU BANKs, he immediately offered me his Mr. MACARTNEY'S Observations, &c. 59 as stance wiith that liberality, which so eminently distinguishes imn as a real lover of science. I am' indebted to him for an inspection of the valuable journal he kept during his voyage with Captain CooK; for permission to copy the original drawings in his possession, of those luminous animals discovered in both the voyages of COOK; and for some notes upon the luaninous appearance of the sea, that were presented to him by Captain HORSBURG, Whose accuracy of observation is already known to this learned Society. In the following paper, I shall first examine the grounds on which the property of shewing liglt has been ascribed to certain animals, that either do not possess it, or in which its existence is questionable. I shall next give an account of somee luminous species, of which some have been inaccurately desciibed, and others quite unknown. I shall endeavour to explain from my own observations, and the information communicated to me by others, many of the circunstances attend. iig the luminous appearance of the sea. I shall then describe tie organs employed for the production of light in certain species,; and, lastly, I shadl review the opionions which have been entertained respecting the nature and origin of animal light, and relate the experiments I have made for the purpose of elucidating this part of the subject. T1he property of emiitting light has been reported to belong to several fishes , aore particularly the mackarel, the mnoonfih (tetraodon mola,) the dorado, mullet, Bq rat, &c. Mr. BAJON observed during the migration of the dorados, rcw that their bodies were covered withd luminous points. These hoW-evrer proved upon examixnation to j mnute spherical particles that adhered to the suri4ce of these fishes; and, Mr. MACARTNEY'S Observations he adds appeared to be precisely the same sort of points that 'llutninated the whole of the sea at the time. They were therefore in a11 probability the minute kind of medusa, which I shall have occasion to describe hereafter. GODEHiU DE RIVILLE states, in a paper sent to the Academny of Sciences at Paris, that on opening the scomner pelamis while alive, he found in different parts of its body an oil which gave out much light: but it should be observed, that RiVILLE had a particular theory to support for which this fact was very convenient, and that other parts of his me2moir bear marks of inaccuracy. It may be added, that if the oil of fishes were usually luminous, which RIVILLE supposed, it would be almost universally known, instead of resting on a solitary observation. As far as I am able to determine from what I have seen, the faculty of exhibiting light during life does not belong to the class of fishes. It appears probable, that some fishes may lave acquired the character of being luminous, from evolving light soon after death. Sonn e species of lepas, murex, and chama, and some starfish have been said to possess the power of shining ; and the assertion has been repeated by one writer after another, but without quoting any authority. BRUGUEIRE upon one occasion saw, as he supposed, comn mon earth worms in a luminous state; all the hedges were filled with them; he renifarked that the light resided princi pally in the posterior part of the body.* FLAUGERGUES pretended to have seen earth worms luminous in three instances; it was at each time in October; the bodly* Journal d'Histoire Naturelle, Tom.. Il upon Luminous A;imTIal'. S6 chone at every part, but most brilliantly at the genital 'orga ns. Notwithvitanding this concurrence of testimony, it is next to impossibl I,that animals so frequently before ot6r eyes as the corninion earth wor mr, should be endowed with so remark-able a property, withoutevery person having observed it. If they only enjoyed it during the season for copulation, still it could not ave escaped notice, as these creatures are usually found joincwd tog3 thier in the most frequented paths, and in garden vails. In different systems of natural history, the property of shining is attributed to the cancer pulex. The authorities for this opinion are HABLITZL, and TiULEs and BERNARD. The former observed up)o1 one occasion, a cable that was drawn up fromn the sea exhibit light, which upon closer inspection wvas perceived to be covered by these insects.t TIULEs and BERNARD reported that they met with a number of this secicws of cancer on the borders of a river, entirely luminous.t I amn nevertheless disposed to question the lumninous property of tihe cancer pulex, as I have often had the animal in my possession, and never perceived it emit any light. .The account given by LINNEUS of the scolopendra phosphorea, is so improbable and inconsistent, that one mnigl ht be Id to doubt this insect's existence, particularly as it does not appear to have been ever seen, except by EKEBERIG, the Captain of an East Indiaman, from whom LINNLus learnt its .istory.Journal de Physique Tome XVI. t Hablitzl ap. Pall. n. Nord. Beytr. 4, p396. I Journal de Physique, Tome XXVIII.MDCCCX* M nil ,6$0 %Mr. MACARTNEY'S ObservatzionsI now proceed to the description of those luminous aninals that have been discovered by the Right Holnourable Sir Jos LPH BANKS Captain HORSBURG, and myself. On t e passage fromi Mad-,Ira to Rio de Janeirothe sea was observed by Sir 3SEPii BANKs to be unusually lu-ninous. flasihing i"I many imrts like ligiatning. I-Ic directed somre of the vater to be hauled up, in whictl he discovered two kinds of azimals Ahat occ'ionwaned the ph:on;x enon ; the one, a, crustaceous insect whiich lie caIied t1le ca'ncer fulgens ; the other' a large species o n medusa, to vhichl he gave the name oa pellucens. The cancer fulgens bears some resemblance to the coin mnb shrimp ; it is however considerably less, the legs are furnished with n'umerous seta. The iight of this animal, vhich is very brilliant, appears to issue from every parc of thie body. The medusa pellucens mnasurs '5 hout six inches across th e crown or umbella ; this part is marked by a number of opake lines, that pass off from the center to the circumferen-e. The edge of the umibella is divided into lobules which su eceed each other, one large anid two small ones alternately. From within the margin of the umbella, there are suspended a number of long cord-shaped tentacula. The central part of the animal is opake, and furnished with four thick irregularly Shaped processes, w ?hich baMg down in the RmI idst of the tentacula. This zoophyte is the most splendid of the luminous inhabitants of the ocean. The flashes of lightemitted during its contractions, are so vivid as to affect the sight of the spectator. In the notes comnmnunicated to Sir JosEPH BANKs by Captain Ho11SBURG, he remarks that the luminous state of the sea .o Luminou~s/AZ1alLi. 2 c between the tro1s, is generally acco panied with the ap. pearance of a gyeat i mnber of marine animals of various kin s Upon the surface ft he wate~r: to many of whiCh he does not, howe er, ttliOLc the property of shining. At other times, when the water vhich cave out li-ght was examnined, it appeared only to contain s1ln11 particles of a dusky straw o1ir, Which dissolved with the slightest touch of the finger. He like wise observes, that in Bombay, during the hot weather of May and June, he has frequently seen the edges of the sea mnuch illuminated by minute sparkling points. At s&1n rise on April 12, 1789, in the Arabian sea, he perceived several luminous spots in the water, which, conceiving to be animals, he went in the boat and caught one. It proved to be an insect somewhat resembling in appearance the wood louse, and was about one third of an inch in length. When viewed w7ith the microscope, it seemed to be formed by seec tons of a thin crustaccous substance. During the time that any luid remained in the -aninal, it shone brilliantly like the fire fly. In the month of 'une in the same year, he picked up anothe r luminous insect on a sandy beach, which was also covered: with a thinshlell, but it wJ2a a difweint shape, and a larger size than the animal taken in the Arabian sea. By comnpa.ririg the above description wth an elegant pen and ink Irawing which vas made by Captain HorsrURoG, and accompanied his paper, I have no' doUbt that both th ese insect2s were mon )cCi]i the first evidently belongs to the genus linulus of M ULLE.\-; I shall there~fre beg leave to-distinguisJ it by tzrie name of lirnulus nooctilucus. My pursuits., and the state of myhealtb, haating frequently M m 2 I 6 Mr. MACAObservadits led me to the coast, I have -had many opportunities of making observations upon the animals which illuminate our own seas. Of these I have discovered three species: one of whica is a beroe not hitherto descrilb-ed by authors; another agrees so nearly with the medusa hemispherica, that I conceive it to bothe sam' , or at least a variety of that species ; the tlhird is z: minute species of medusa, which I blieve to be the lui-r0i1os animal, so freqLe]ntly seen by navigators, althiough it has never been distinctly examined or described.c I first met with these animals in the month of Octcbr 18o04 at Herne Bay, a small watering p1ac' Upon1 thre nlOrtievrn co)St of Kent. Having observed the sea to be extremely luminous for several nights, I had a considerable quantity of 1th vater taken up. When perfectly at rest, no light was ernitclr3, but oi t he slightestX agitation of the vessel in which the wasatt. x as contained, a brilliant scintillation was perceived, plarctilarly towards tie surface; and when the vessel was sudden Imystruck, a fash of light issued from the top of the water, in conselitrxce of so many points shining at the same moment. WVhetn any of these 4parkling points were removed from the vvater, t4 ey tio longer yielded anry light. They were so transpa'KerP t Uat n the air they appeared like globules of wat er. 7Ihey ; re more minute than the head of the smatlest pih7. Up.j ^ie si0ghtest touch, they broke and vanished from tnle gi gt. Having strained a quantity of the lurn'iu-ous wat-er, a gre-at number of these transparent corpuscles were obtained u -po the cloth, and the water which had been strained, did not afterwards exhibit the least light. I then put some sea watSc, that had been rendered particularly clear, by repeated fil-trdtions, into a large glass, and having floated in it a fine clotha, upeon Luminous Animals. on which I had previously collected a number of luminous poinits, several of them were liberated, and became distinctly visible in their natural element, by placing the glass before a piece of dark coloured paper. They were observed to have a tendency to come to the surface of the water, and after the glass wvas set by for some time, they were found congregated together and when thus collected in a body, they had a dusky straw colour, although individually they were so transparent, cs to be perfectly invisible, except under particular circunmstances. Their substance was indeed so extremely tender and delicate, that they did not become opaque in distilled vinegar or alcohol, until immersed in these liquors for a conr siderable time. On examining these minute globules with the microscope, I found that they were not quite perfect spheres, but had an irregular depression on one side, which was formed of an opaque substance, that projected a little way inwards, producing such an appearance as would arise from tying the neck of a round bag, and turning it into the body. The motions of these creatures in the water were slow and graceful, and not accompanied by any visible contraction of their bodies. After death they always subsided to the bottom of the vessel. From the sparkling light afforded by this species, I shall distinguish it by the name of medusa scinitillans. The night following that, on which I discovered the preceding animal, I caught the two other luminous species. One of these I shall call the beroe fulgens. This most elegant creature is of a colour changing between purple, violet, and pale blue; the body is truncated before, s66 Mr. MACARTNEryS Observations and pointed behind; but the form is di.J1 t to ass gn, as I is varied by partial contractions, at the alIimal.as Pleasurep I have represented the two extremes of forin th1y I hi sRie seen this creature assume: the first is 5;Msnewhlat trat of a cucumbr, which as being the one it takes wheii.n at rest, should perhaps be considered as its proper shape: the other resembles a pear, and is the figure it has in the most contracted state. The body is hollow, or formns internally an infundibular cavity, which has a wide opening before, and appears aiso to have a small aperture, posteriorly through which it di$charges its excrement. The posterior tvo-thirds of the body are ornamnented with eight longitudinal ciliated. ribs, the processes of which are kept in such a rapid rotatory motion, while the animal is swimming, that they appear like the continual passage of a fluid along the ribs.. The ciliated ribs have been described by Professor MITCHELL, as arteries, ill a lumi. nous beroe, which I uspect was no other than the species I ain now giving ani account of. W Iten the beroe fulgens swam gently near the surface of the water, its whole body became eccasionally illuminated in a slight degree; during its contractions, a strongger light issued fror -i t-he ribs, and when a suddent shock was comm riCated to the water, in which several of theS aynimals were placed, a vivid flash wvas thrown out. If the body were lor. lken, the fragnents continued luminous for somie secoids, and being rubbed on the ha'nd, left a Iight like that of p'Iosphoris thi, howener, as well as eve-ry other mode of emitting lig'ht, Ceas(d -after the death of the anitmal. rje h mispherical spe>is that I dis o rered, had a very faint purple colour. The largest th-at I fou-dd, wncasuned about;l upon Lum nous An'mals. 2G7 three quarters of an -inch in diameter. The margin of the umbella was undivided, and surrounded internally by a row of pale brown s aot and numerous small twisted tentacula: four opaque lines crossed in an arched manner from the circumrference towards the center of the animal: an opaque irregular shaped process hung down fromn the middle of the unbella: when this part was examined with a lens of high powers, I discovered that it was inclosed in a sheath in which it moved, and that the extremity of the process was divided into four tenctaula, covered with little cups or suckers, like those on th belentacula of the cuttle fish. This species of inedusa bears a striking resemblance to the figures of the medlsa hemsph.llica, published by GRONOVIUS and MULLER, indeed it differs as little from these figures, as they do from each other. Its luminous property, however, was not observed by these naturalists, which is the more extraordinary, as MULLER exailned it at night, and says it is so transparent, that it can only be seen with the light of a lamp. If it should b)e still considered as a distinct species, or as a variety of the hemispherical I would propose to call it the medusa lucida, In this species, the central part and the spot round the margin, are commonly seen to shine on lifting the animal out of the wvater into the air, presenting the appearance of an illuminated wheel, and when it is exposed to the usual percussion of the water, the transparent parts of its body are alone luminous. In the month of September 1805, again visited iernel Bay, and frequently had opportunities of witnessing the luminous appearance of the sea. I caught many of the hemiMr. MACARTNEY S Observatizozs spherical and minute species of medusa, but not one of talk beroe fulgens. I observed that these luminous animals always retreated from the surface of the water, as soon as the moon rose. I found also, that exposure to the day light took away their property of shining, which was revived by Placing them for some time in a dark situation. In that season I had two opportunities of seeing an extended illumination of the sea, produced by the above animal.s. The first night I saw this singular phenomnron, was extremely dark, many-of the medusa scintillans, and medusa hemnispherica had been observed at low water, but on the return of the tide, they had suddenly disappeared. On looking towards the sea, I was astonished to perceive a flash of light of about six yards broad, extend from the shore, for apparently the distance of a mile and a half along the surface of the water. The second time that I saw this sort of lig ht proceed from the sea, it did not take the same form, but was diffused over the surface of the waves next the shore, and was so strong, that I could for the moment distinctly see my servant, who stood at a little distance from me; he also perceived it., and called out to me at the same instant. On both these occasions the flash was visible for about four or five seconds and although I watched for it a considerable time, I did not see it repeated. A diffiused luminous appearance of the sea, in some respects different from what I have seen, has been. described by several ,navigators. GODEHEU DE RIVILLE saw the sea assume the appearance eA plain of snow on the coast of Malabar.*; Mem. Etrang. de 1' Acad. des Sc. Tom. A. upon Lumiious Aninas, /6S Captain HORSBURG H, in the notes he gave to Sir JosE -1 BANKS, says, there is a peculiar phenomenon sometimes seen within a few degrees distance of the coast of Malabar, during the rainy monsoon, which he had an opportunity of observing. At midnight the weather was cloudy, and the sea was pare ticularly dark, when suddenly it changed to a white flaming colour all around. This bore no resemblance to the sparkling or glowing appearance he had observed on other occasions in seas near the equator, but was a regular white colour, like milk, and did not continue more than ten minutes. A similar phenomenon, he says, is frequently seen in the Banda sea, andV is very alarming to those who have never perceived or heard of such an appearance before. This singular phenomenon appears to be explained by som observations communicated to me by Mr. LANGSTAFF, a surgeon in the city, who formerly made several voyages. In going from New Holland to China, about half an hour after sunset, every person on board was astonished by a milky appearance of the sea: the ship seemed to be surrounded by ice covered with snowv. Some of the company supposed they were in soundings and that coral bottom gave this curious reflection, but on sounding wvith 70 fathoms of line no bottom was mtet with. A bucket orf water being hatiled up, Mr. LANGSTAFF examined it in the dark, and discovered a great number of globular bodies, each about the size of a pins head, liike d togetier. The chains thus formed did not exceed Lhree inches in length, and emitted a pale phosphoric light. By introducing his hand into the water, Mr. LANGSTAFF raised upon it several chains of the luminous globules, wvhifh were separated by opcning the fingers, but readily reunnited cDCCCx. N X 270 Mr. MACARTNEY Y Observatio 0s on being brought again into contact, like globtules of quickl sliver. The globules', he says, were so transparent, that they could not b~e perceived when the hand was taken into the light. .This extraordinary appearance of the sea was visible for two nights. As soon as the moon exerted her influence, the sea-changed to its natural dark colou r, and exhibited distinct glittering points, as at other timnes. The phenomenon, he says, had never been witressed before by any of the coinpany on board, although some of the crew had been two or three times round the globe. I consider this account of Mr. LANGSTAFF very interesting and important, as it proves that the diffhised light of the sea is produced by an assemblage. of minute medusx on the surface of the water. In June i8o6, I found the sea at Margate more richly stored with the small luminous medusz, than I have ever seen it. A bucket of the water being set by for some time, the animals sought the surface, and kept up a continwual sparkling, which must have been occasioned by the motions of itidiv-iduals, as the vater was p erfectly at rest. A small quantity of the u ito s water was put into a glass jar, and oia sa nding sonetim e, the vedujel collected at the top of the Jar, and forsna geatinous mass, one inch and a half thick, and of a reddish or nud colour, leaving the water underdeath perfecetly clear. In order to ascertain if th ese animals would materially altir their size, or assue the figure of anay oth er known s Decies of ndisa, I mt hem alive for 95 days, by carefully chani'gi the water i w le wich th cy were place d uring which ti e( zpon LuminousAn mals. althoughi they appeared as Vibgolws as when first tai n, their form was not in the slightest degree altered and tbeir size but little increased. By this experitnent I was confirmed i1 the opinion of their being a distinct svcies as tile young acting and medusl exhibit the form of the parent in a much shorter period than the above. In September i 8o6, I took at Sandgate a number of the beroe fulgens, but no other species: they were of various dimensions, from the full size down to that of the medusa scintillans: they could however be clearly distinguished from the latterspecies, by their figure. Since that time, I have frequently met with the medusa scintillans on different parts of the coast of Sussex, at 'Tenby, and at Milford haven. I have likewise seen this pecies in the bays of Dublin and Carlitngford in Ireland. In the month of April, last year, I caught a number of the beroe fulgens in the sea at Hastings; they were of various sizes, from about the half of an iinch in length, to the bulk of the head of a large pin. I found many of them adhering together in the sea; some of the larger sort were covered with small ones, which fell off when the animals were handled, and by a person unaccustomed to observe these creatures, would have been taken for a phosphoric substance, On putting a number of them into a glass, containing clear sea wa er, they still shewed a disposition to congregate Upon1 tile surface. I observed that when they adhered together, they shewed no contractile motion in any part of their body, which explains the-cause of the pale or white colour of the diffused ight of the ocean. The flashes of light which 1 saw comtte fom the sea at Herne bay, werce probably produced by a N n 9, 1, 7 ArMi; MACARTNEY'S Obser'aiions sudden arnd; general effort of the meduso to separate ftroai each other, and d2scend in the water. The medusa scintillans almost constaantliy exists in the different branches of Milford haven that are called pills. I h av Sometimes found these animals collected in such vast numbers in those situaton~s, that they b re a considerabie Proportion to the volulme of the water ihn which they were contained t~hu from a gallon of sea water in a luminous state, I have strainedabove a pint of these medusq. I have found the sea und1e such circumstances to yieId me more support in sY7lnming, and the wJiter to taste inore disagreeably than usuaL probably the difference of density, that has been, remarked at different timLIs in the water of the sea, inay bereferred to this cause All my own observations lead ie to conclde, that the medusa scintillans is the aost frequent source of the libht of the sea around this country, nd by cotiparing the accounts of others wilhl each other, and with what I have myself seen, I am persuaded that it is so likewise in other parts of the world. Many observers appear to have mistaken this species for the nereis noctiluca, which was very natural, as they were prepossessed with the idea of the frequent existence of the one-, and had" no knowledge of -the other. Some navigators have, actually described this species of medusa, without being aware of its nature. Mr. BAJON, during his voyage from France to, ,Cayenne, collected many luminous pointsin the sea, which he says, whenexamined by a lens, were found to be minute spheres. They disappeared in the air. Doctor LE Roy, in sail ing from Naples to France, observed, thesparkling appearance df the sea, which is usually produced by the nedusa scintillans,. u#on Luminous Animal s 073 By filtering the water, he separated luminous particles frotn it, which he preserved in spirits of wine they wered he says, like the head of a pin, and did not at all resemble th e nereis noctiluca, described by VIANELLI; their colour approached a yellow brown, and their substances was extremely tender, and fragile. Not1withstanding this striking resemblance to the medusa sci-ntillans, LiE Roy, in consequence of a precon-. ceived theory did not suppose what he saw, wereanimals7 but particles of an oily or bi`iuminous nature.* The minute globules seen by Mr. LANGSTAPF in the Indian ocean, were I think, in all probability, the scintillating species of med usa; and on my shewing him some of these animals I have preserved in spirits, he entertained the same opinion. Professor MITCHELL, of New York, found the luminous appearance on the coast of America, to be occasioned by minute anirnals, that from his description plainly b-longd to thAs species of medusa, notwithstanding which, he supposed them to be a number of the nereis noctiluca.? The luminous animalcule, discovered by FORISTER Off the1 ape of Good Hope, in his voyage round the world, bears so strong a resemblance to the medusa scintillans, that I am Much disposed to believe themthe same. Ile describes Ns animalcule as being a little gelatinous globule, less t nan the head of a pin; transparent, but a little brownish in its colour and of so soft a texture, that it was destroyed by the slightest touch. Qn being highly magnified, he perceived on one side a depression, in which there was a tube that passed intVo the*01serv. sur un lumiere produite par LE au de la mer. Axiom. Etraxig. lcs S'cJi Pbil. Mag. Vol, X. p. 0o. Mr. MACARTNrEY0S Observatzons body, and communicated with four or five intestinal sacsI The pencil drawings he made on the spot, are in the possession of Sir JOSEPH BANKIS, by whose permission, engravings from them are subjoined to this paper. By comparing these with the representations of the medusa scintillans, and some of this species rendered visible, by being a long time preserved in spirits, which I have laid before tbis lear ned Society, it will be found, that the only difree nce between FORSTER'S animalcule, and the medusa scintillans, is in the appearance of the opaque parts, shewn in the microscopic views. Many writers have ascribed the light of the sea to other causes than luminous animals. MARTIN supposed it to be occasioned by putrefaction: SILBERSCIULAG believed it to be phosphoric: Professor J. MAYER conjectured, that the surface of the sea imbibed light, which it afterwards discharged. BAJON and GENTIL th:ought the lightof the sea was electric, because it was excited by friction. FORSTER conceived that it was sometimes electric, sometimes caused from. pUtrefaetion, and at others by the presence of living ani nals. FouGERoux DE BONDAROY believed that it camne sometimes from electric fires, but more frequently from the putref-action of marine animals and plants. I shall not trespass on the tirni of the Society, to refute the1 above speculations ; their authors have left t1nemn unsupportedl by either arguments or experiment-s, a'nd they are w'zcon-sitnte wvith all ascertainecd facts upon this saubject. The remarkable property of emitting light dlurin g l, 1is only rnet with amongst animals of the four last classes of todVrn aturalists, vi. M OLLUSCA, INSECTS' We MsRM, Hand zcoPstY'T;u tp MLum n s Animals, The mollusca and worms contain each but a single luminous species ; the phols dact as in the one, and the nrel's 'noctituca in tlhe other Some species Xyield light, in the eight following genera of insects ; eataer, faBnpy i's gor, p su S, cotendra, cancer, lynceus, and hr utw <the laiinous species of the genera lampyis, and fulgora, are inore numerous than is generally supposed, if we ay judge from the appearance of luminous organs, to b seen in dried specimens. Am,)ngst zoophytes we find that the genera nmedsa, beroef and pennatala, contain species which afford light. The only animals which appear to possess a distinct organsm ization for the production of light, are the luminous species of lampyris, elater, fulgora, and pausus. The light of the lanipyridces is known to proceed from some of the lFst rings of the abdoinen, which when not lillumrnated, are of a pale ycllow colour. Upon the internal surface of these rinl-S, there is spread a layer of a peculiar soft yellow substance, which has been compared to paste, but by examination with a lens, I found it' to be organized like the cornmon interstitial substance of the insect's body, except that it is of a closer txkture, and a paler yellow colour. This substance does not entirely cover the inner surface of the rings,,bing more or less '4e ficient alonic their edges, where it presents an i'rrcguIar wx aving outline. I have observed in the glow worm, that it is absorbed, and its place supplied by * Theanimal discovered ly R iIL L off the fist of Malabar in 17 54 is rtainly a testace 'Us insect, and appears to btotig TV the genus lynceus Of MULLER. t The lu no is zoophyte foAm whith ? I has lately insftuted the new gen pyrsma appears t meto be ' croe, and only worthy of a specifc distinction, Mr. MACARTNEY'S Observations common interstitial substance, after the season for giving light I past. The segments of the abdomen, behind which this peculiar substance is situated, are thin and transparent, in order to expose the internal uLInination. 'The number of luminous rings varies in different species of lampyris, and as it would seem at different periods in the same individual. 1Besiles the luminous substance above described, I have discovered in the common glow wormn, on the inner side of the last abdominal ring, two bodies, which to the naked eye appear more minute than the head of the smallest pin. They are lodged in two slight depressions, formed in the shell of the ring, which is at these points particularly transparent. On .xamiining these bodies under the microscope, I found that they were sacs containing a soft yellow substance, of a more close and homogeneous texture, than that which lines the Anner surface of the rings. The membrane forming the sacs, appeared to be of two layers, each of which is composed by a transparent silvery fibre, in the same manner as the internal membrane of the respiratory tubes of insects, except that in this case, the fibre passes in a spiral, instead of a circular direction. This membrane, although so delicately constructed, is so elastic as to preserve its forma, after the sac is ruptured, and the contents discharged. The light that proceeds from these sacs, is less under the conr troul of the insect, than that of the luminous substance spread on the rings: it is rarely ever entirely extinguished in the season that the glow worm gives light, even during the day; and when all the other rins are dark, these Sacs often shine brightl r upon Luminous Aim als. 0 The circumstance of there being points, which give a more permanent light than the other parts of the luminous rings of the abdomen, has been noticed before by the Comte G. DE RAZOUMOUSKI. He states the number of these luminous points to vary from 2 to 5* I must however remark, that I never saw mnore than two of these luminous points, which were always upon the last ring of the-body, and that the figures which accompany the miiemoir of the Comte DE RAZOUMOUSKI, bear scarcely any resemblance to the insect they are intended to represent, from which we may fairly suspect him of inaccuracy in other particulars.. As far as my observation has extended, the small sacs of lumiinous substances are not found in any species of lampyris, except the glow worm of this country. THUNBUIRG mentions that the larnpyris japonica has two vesicles on the tail, which afflrd light The organs -for the production of light in the genus elater, are situated in the -corcelet; these likewise consist of a peculiar yeliow substance, placed behind transparent parts of the sbell, which suffer the natural colour of this substance to be seen through them in the day, and when illuminated, give passage to the light. On dissecting the organs of light in the elater noctilucus, I found that there is a soft yellow substance, of an oval figure, lodged in the concavity of the yellow spots of the corcelet, which parts are particularly thin and transparent in this species. This substance is so remarkably close in its structure, that at first view it appears like an inorganic mass, but with* Mein. de la Soc. de Lausanne, Toni. ii.MDCCCX. 0 o n7S Mr. MIACAR TNEY'5 Obsertations a lens, it is readily perceived to be composed' of a great number of very minute parts or lobules closely pressed together. Around these oval masses, the interstitial sub-k stance of the corcelet is arranged in a radiated manner, and the portion of the shell that immediately covers tihe irradiated substance, is in a certain degree transparent, but less so than that which lies over the oval masses, it is therefore probable, -that the interstitial substance in this situation, may be endowed with the property of shining. A fasciculus of the muscles of the corcelet arises in the interior of the oval mrasses of the luminous substance, but not apparently with any designs as it contributes, withthe adjacent fasciculi, to, move thle anterior feet. In the elater ignitus., the masses of luminous substance are extremely irregular in their figure: they are situated nearly at the posterior angles of the corcelet, and are mnore loose ill their texture than the oval masses of the noctilucus, re. sembling rather in composition, the interstitial substance which surrounds these masses in that species. The shell of the corcelet is somewhat thinner, and more transparent along 'both sides of the margin, than at other places, but it is not, as in the noctilucus, elevated, and peculiarly cleIar and thin inns mediately, over the seat of the luminous organ; consequently, the light emitted by the elater ignitus, cannot be very brilliant, I bave not been able to procure any specimen of the elater phosphorea, bult from the accounts of naturalists it appear to resemble in every respect the elater noctilucus; indeed I have great doubts Gf the pLosph'rea -being a distinct specics. I baxe had al opporLunity of exanriiing, preserved i a Muist way, tvy o KpeCieIS of fulgora, the candetaria a nd lanter, upon Lurni as Arnialts mamas The V. ht in this gen us has been observed to issue fa-1 the reinarkable proboscis on the fore part of the head. Tlis part Inas always been described by authors, as hollow or em tv, whtlch I have foun~d to be perfectly correct; and what is i ore extraordin ary, that the cavity communicates freely 'with the exter ial air, by means of a chink or narrow aperture, pIlaced on ech side of the root of the proboscis. This projctio lis covered internally by a membrane, between which and the1 horny part or shell, there appears to be' interposed a pale reddish coloured soft substance, that is arranged in the candelaria in broad lines or stripes; but it is so thin, that I could not distinctly examine its structure, or absolutely determine, whether it should be considered as a substance intended to furnish the light of these insects, or the pigment upon which the colour of the proboscis depends. The globes of the antenna constitute the organs of light in the pausus spherocerus. Dr. AFZELIUS, who discovered the luminous property in this species, compares them to lanterns spreading a dim phosphoric light.* The rarity of the insect put it out of My power to examine its structure, but from the form and situation of its organs of light, it is most probable they are constructed like those of the fulgoree. It has be-n conjectured by CARRADORI and others, that the lampyrides were enabled to moderate or extinguish their light, by retracting the luminous substance under a membrane; but neither in them, or any of the other luminous insects, have I found an apparatus of this sort. The substance furnishing the light, is uniformly applied to corresponding transparent parts of the shell of tile insect from whence it is not moved; i-ndeed a* Lin. Trans. Vol. IV.Oo a 280 Mr. MACARTNEY'S Observatz'ons membrane, if it did exist, would have b ut little effiect i obscuring the light, and never could serve to extinguish it. The regulation of the ind and degree of th e luminous appearance, does n ot depend upon any visible mechanism, but like One production o' td e light itself, is accomplished by some inscrutable change in the luminous matter, which in some animals is a sinple -operation of org nic lie azd in others is subject to the wills It is worthy of rem ark, that in all the dissections I have made of luminous insects, I did not find that the organs of light wvere better, or differently supplied with either n1o rs or 1a1 tubes, than the other parts of the body. The power of emitting light likewise exists in many creatures which want nerve~s a circumstance strongly marking a difference between 'animal light, and animal electricity, With the exception of theC animals above mentioned, the exhibition of light diepends upon the presence of a fluid matter. In the pholas dactylhs, the luminous fluid is particularly evident, and in vast quantity ; it is recorded by PLINY, that this fluid is like liquid phosphorus, and renders every object luminous with which it comes into contact. REAUMUR also found that it wasdiffusible in water, or any other fluidn which the animal might be immersed.* The shining of the scolopendra electrica-, 1 have aliwvvays observed to be accompanied bythe appearance of an efi-i3io of a luminousfluid upon the -surface. of thaniml tiilor particularlid about the head, wvhici mxay b r eceive'd upoi tire han d or other Ibo ie bkn'--;ymht iKint conotact with. thc i'1sect at the* Mcnu de 1 Aca'd Ics SC. 17I,. upon Lumi'ous Animals. 281 momen-t, and these exhibit a phlosphoric light for a few secorn afterwards. 1 hhis fluil, however, I never could discover in the formn of moisture, even upo l the clearest glass, althougi exa-mil+ied imn diately W ith thWe most scrupulous attention by a lens it mIust thcrefore be extrerely attenuated. The same appearance has b en observed during the illumi-. nation of tO.v nereis noctiluca by FoUGEROUX DE B9NDAROY,* rThe aniV-al discovered by RIVILLE shed a blue liquor, which illuni iated thlewater for a distance of two or three lines.k SPALLANZANI relates, that the medusa which he examined, cornmunitcated the property of shinilng to water, milk, and other fluids, on b,?ng rubbed or squeezed in, them, + The luminouIs fluid is i'1 some instatces confined to par. ticcular parts of the body, and in others is diffused throughotit the whole substance of the animal. In the scolopendra electrica, it appears to reside immediately under the integl ifnents. In the lynceus discovered by RIVILLE, it is contained in the ovary. If I may Judge from my own. bservations everv part of the body of the meduse is fur. nished , with this fltid, as, there is no part I have not seen 'lluminated under different circumstances, but &PALLANZANI affirns that it is only found in the iarge tentacula, the edges of the u.nbeila, and the purse or central mass; which he proved, he says, by detaching these parts successively, when they shone vividly, while tue rest of the body neither gaveigiht or comnmunicated any luminous appearance to water.?,* Mem. du 1' Acad. (es Sc. 1767. t MVm. Etrang. de 1' Acad. des Sc. Tom. iii. X PAtL ANZA N 'S iraves in the Two Scilies, Vol. iv. ?. M'tmoria sopra le nedusc fsioriche. Mc 1. d 191a Sic. Ital. Tomo VI} Mr. MACAITNnY-S 0bservaltzons$ CSPALLANZAM discovered a mucous luminous fluid in thie Iplumule of the pennatula phosphorea.* The phenomenon of animal light has been attempted to be explained in different ways. -By many persons it wg formerly .ascribed to a putrefactive process, but since the modern theories of combustion became known, it -has been generally believed to depend upon an actual inflammnation of the luminous substance, similar to thle slow conbustion of phosphorus. Others -have accounted. for the luminous eff-~ct, by supposing the matter <of light to be accunMuiated and rendered latent under particular circumstances, and afterwards evolved in a -sensble form. The opinion of the light of living animialsbeing the con-Sequence of putrefaction, is evidently absurd, and contradictory o all observation on the subject. It has been proved by the experiments of Dr. HULME and others, that even the luminous appearances of dead animals, are exhibited only during the first stages of the dissolution of the body, and that no light is emitted after putrefaction has really commenced. SPALLANZANI, who was the most strenuous advocate for the phosphorescent nature of animal light, stated that glow-worms shone more brilliantly when put into oxygen gas; that their light gra'dually disappeared in hydrogen or in azotic gas, and was instantly extinguished in fixed-air; that it was also lost by cold, and revived by the application of a warm temperature. He conjectured that the luminous matter of these insects-: was composed of hydrogen and carbonated hydrogen gas. FORSTER relates, ins the Lichtcriberg Magazine for 1783'Me rnm. della Soc. Ital. Tomo ii. up on Lumninous Anhnzcda 18 1tat eoil putting a lampyris splendidula into oxygen gas, it gave as much light as four of the same species in common alar. CARRADORI has made some experiments upon the lucciole (lampyris-ita lica) which led hint to deny its phosphorescence. He found that the I uninous portion of the belly of the insect shbone ill vacuum, in oil, in water, and different liquids and under diffr nlt circumstances, where it was excluded frorn all conimmtnic-ation with oxygen gas. He accounts for the result of F-TISTER's experi-t net, by supposing, that the worm shone more vividly, because it was more animated in oxygen, gas than in common, air. CARRADOMRI adopts ont this subject the doctrine of BRUGNATELLI, and ascribes the luminous appearances of animals, to the condensation and extrication of light in particular organs which had P;reviously existed in combination w ith the substanceof thlitj bodies. He supposes the light to be originally derivedfrom thle food, or the atvnosphericair taken into the body;in short, that certain animals have the peculiar property of a dually imbibing light from foreign bodies, and of after wards secreting it in a sensible form.* The filoowing experiments which I made upon this subject, would -lead me to make different conclusions than those of' the preceding authors. Expeximent i.-A glowv worm was put into a glass of" water, in which it lived nearly two hours, and continued to: emit light as usual, until it died, when the luminous appearance entirelv ceased, xpernnient 2.-The luminous substance was extractedc4 Annal di Chrlnica, Tonmo xiii.. 1797' 284 ! Mr MAARTNEYs Obsetva~ons from the beforementioned glow-worm, and from others killed in different ways but it afforded no light. Expeneint S..-The sacs containing the luminous matter were cut from the bellies of bvu5?I glow-wvorns, and hone uninterruptedly for several hours i the atmosphere, and after .their'light became extinct it was revived by being n i toved with water; some of these Were put into xwater in the first instance, in which they continued to shine unremt itingly for 4S hours. Experient 4.-nThe lumnous substance of a glow-worm was exposed to a degree of heat which would have bioen sufficient to inflame phosphorus, without increasing the brilliaancy of its light; and f a rther, it -could not be made to burn ~by bein' applied to a red hot iron, or to the flame of a candle. Eaper ent A delicate thermometer was introduced .amongst some living glow-worms during the time th y gave out much light: the temperature of tta room being 69, the instrument rose to 75, 76, and 77, according to circumstances, as the warmth was reflected from the hand, or dissipated by the worm crawling over cold substances. The luminous portion of the tail, when very brilliant, appeared to raise the thermometer more quickly than the other parts of the bodr, but it was not invariably the case. When shining strongly, I thought that the luminous rings communicated the sensation of warndth to the hand, but this was probably a deception, as ,the actual degree of heat was not sufficient for such an efect. It should however be mentioned, that in .TEMPLAR'S obsrvations on the glow-worm, he said his feelings d-ceive nhim, if he -ld not experience some heat from the shining of the insect.*# Phil. Trans. No. 72. upon Luniz2nous Anizast 2s85 Experiment 6.-To satisfy myself how far the evolution of heat during the slhining of glow-worms, depenlded upon the. life of the animals, I cut off the luminous portion of the tail from several living worms, and I found that if the thermometer was applied to them immediately, it was raised by them one or two degrees; but after these parts were dead, although they continued to emift liglht, they produced no effect whatever upon the instruament. Experiment 7 -Some hemispherical medusm were put into a spoon, containing a small quantity of sea water, and held over a burning candle. As soon as the water became heated the medusappeared like illuminated wheels, the spots at the ,margin and center alone emitting light; i-n which manner they shone viividly and permanently for about so second% when they shrunk and died, after which they were no longer luminous. Exferimeit 8.S6me of the same species were put into Spirits: -a strong and unremitting light w s instantly given out, which issued from the central and marginal parts, as in the preceding experiment, and, continued until they died. Experiment 9. -Some of the scintillating and hemispherical sp-*cies of medusa, contained in a small glass jar, were introduced-into the receiver of an air plimp, and the air being exhausted, they shone as usual when shaken; if any difference could be perceived, the light was more easily excited, and continued longer if vacuum. I wished next to try the influence of electricity on the luminous property of animals. Experiment 10.A medusa hemispherica was placed in a small glass dish, containing a quantity of vater, merely MDCCCX. P p t86 Mr. AIACATITNEY's Observatois sufficient to allow the animal to preserve its figure; being insulated, it was electrified, and sparks drawn from its which had not the slightest effect; the experimentwas repeated several times with difieren t individuals, but without exciing the animals to throw out light. ExperLment i1 .-Some hemispherical mnedusae were placed in contact with the two ends of ana interrupted chain, and slight electric shocks passed throumh them. During the very momex t of their receiving the shock no light was visible, but immediatelv afterwards the m4du:s shone like illuminated wheels, which app'larance remained for some seconds. Upon the closest inspection with a magnifying glass, no contractile motion could be perceived to accompany the exhibition of the light. The application of electricity in this instance seems to have acted merely as a strong mechanic shock. The above experiments on the lumit ous medumawere made at 1erne, with the assistance of GEORGE MAY, Esq. of Stroud-house, and in the presence of a large company, capable of accurately distinguishing their result s. It seems proved by the foreg oing experiments, t at so far from the luminous substance being of a phosphorescent nature, it sometimes shews the strongest and most constant light, whrhen excluded from oxygene gas ; that it its no circumstances undergoes any process like co nbusti n, but is actually ins -capable of being inflamed; that the increase of hea t, during the shining of glow-worms is an accompaniment, and not an effect of the phenomenon, and depends upon the excited state of the insect; and lastlythat heat and electricity increase the exhibition of light, merely by operating like other stimuli upon the vital properties of the animal. upon Luminous .Animails. 287 In conrfirnation of these opinions, I may quote the high authority of the Secretary of this Society, w ho has found that the light of the glow-worin is not rendered muore brilliant in Oxygenem or in oxygenvAedI hmuriatic gas, than in common air; and th'at it i2s not snsbi by i Ied in hydrogene gas. I may fwurther add, that SPALLANZANI'S experimnents of di f4ising the luminous liqur of the maedusa in water, milk ard other fluids, are in direct contradiction of his own thorys -s is also the etxinction of tiC0e E-ht of these mixtures by the appiication of a high de ree of hleia. If the light emitted by animals 1were derived frot their food., or the air ti ey respire, as supposed by CARRADORI, the phenomenon should be increased or diminished, according to the quantity of food or air, that the creatures consume ; but we do not find this to be the case; for in tChose situations where they are sometimes found to be most luminous, they are deprived, in a great measure, of these assumed sources of their i hgt. In fact, the luminous exhibitions of living animals are not only independent of all foreign light, but are frequently destroyed by t~nc latter. I have always found the shining of the medusto cease upon the rising of the mnoon, or at the approachc of day ; and whe'n out of the sea, I never could excite them to throw out light until they hid been kept for somne time in th dar. ; all the lut-ninous insects likewise secrete themselves as much as possibie during tbe dav time, anld go abroad only at night. I liave, i is trUr, oLnd that thb' scolopendra electrica Will not shi ne uniess it 1-las be-en pryoviously exposed to solar light; but I haieobserved that it shone as brilliantly and as freqh ultiv, aifer eilg kbept a short tine in a light P P 0 hMr. MACARTNEY'S, Observations situation, as when left uncovered the whole day. The ci'rcumstance of the scolopendra requiring exposure previous to its giving out light, is very unaccountable, as the insect, when left to itself, always seeks as much as possible concealment during the day; indeed it is the opinion of some naturalists that it is killed by the light of the sun. The opinions of BURUGNATELLI and CARRADORI are connected witll some general doctrines, respecting the nature of light, which I shall not at present venitu-re to discuss. I~t appears to me, that the question is still unresolved, whether light has a substantial existence, or is a phenomenon depending upon certain operations or conditions of the ordihary forms of matter. But the highly ingenious researches of Count RUMFORD, on the laws of what have been called subtile fluids, and the extraordinary advances lately made by Mr.. DAVY, onl the decomposition of substances, that were hitherto looked upon as elementary, give us reason to hope, that future in-, vestigations may unfold views of the material world, of which we can at present have only an indistinct conception,; that new modes of analysis may enable us to see things, not "through a glass darkly," buat more nearly as they are; and that the boundaries of physical and metaphysical science, now so far asurdier may be made to approach each other. In the present state of our knowledge, our business should be, to collect, arrange, and compare phenomena, rather than to speculate upon their nature. Nevertheless, I cannot refrain from observing, that the circumstances attending the luminous appearance of living animals, are much more favourable to the supposition of light being a property, than a substance. The quantity of light emitted by an. animal in a certain time, upon Luminous AnzimaAs. 8q (admitting it to be matter) far exceeds that which could be possi ly supplied by the sources, from whence it is usually supposed to be derived. Thus the luminous appearance of some medusm may be continued with the intermission of short interLvals for an indefinite time, notwithstainding the creature be kept in darkn-ss, and without any other food than what a small quantity of filtered sea water waould' afford. The uninterrupted and long continued light that is sometimes evoledby the Itirtinous sacs, and the ova of the glowIworm is at'.c. imtnsistent witli the notion of an accumulation and sib kcquet dispers ion of a material substance. I shall termrinate thi's paper by an enumeration' of the 'sexe.r1i conclusions, that are the result of the observations J' have be en able to make upon the phenomena of animal light. The property of emitting light is confined to animals of the simplest organization, the greater number of which are Xthan btants of the sea.The Iluminous property isnot constants but in gentral, exists only at certain periods, and in partictlI states of the animal's body..-he power of shewing light1"h reside's in a peculiar substance or fluiii!, which is sometimes situated in a particular organ, and at others diffused througlhout the animal's body.-The light is di-M6-rnlvty regulate4, w hen. tIhe luminous matter exists in the liviig bodv, "aJnAd wlei itt, abstracted fr m it. In the first case, it is interwnitt'Yni or alter' nated withy periodsof darkness iS conamonly produced or increased by amuscular e-fort; and is sornetinis alsolutely dependant upon the w ill of the animal. In the -second case, the luminous appearance is usually permane t until it becomes extinct, after which it rny be restored directly by frifcioll concussion, and the application of warmth ; which last causes ago Mr. MACARTNEY'S Observations operate on the luminous matter (while in the living body,) only indirectly, by exciting the animal.-The luminous matter, in all situations, so far from possessing phosphoric properties, is incombustible, and loses the quality of emitting light, by being dried, or much heated.---The exhibition of' light, however long it may be continued, causes no diminution of the bulk of the luminous matter. It does not require the presence of pure air, and, is not extinguished by other gasses. The luminous appearance of living animals is not exhausted by long continuance, or frequent repetitions, nor accumulated by exposure to natural light; it is therefore, not -dependent upon any foreign source, but inheres as a property, in a peculiarly organized animal substance or fluid, and is regulated by the same laws which govern all the other functions of living beings. The light of the sea is always produced by living animals, and most frequently by the presence of the medusa scintillans. Wllen great numbers of this species approach the surface, they sometimes coalesce together, and cause that snowy or milky appearance of the sea, which is so alarming to navigators. These animals, when congregated on the surface of the water, can produce a flash of light, somewhat like an electric corruscation. When the luminous meduLse are very numerous, as frequently happens in confined bays, they form a considerable portion of the mass of the sea, at which times they render the water heavier, and more nauseous to the taste; it is therefore adviseable to always strain sea water before it is dlruink. The lutninoLs property does not appear to have any connection with the oeconomy of the animals that possess it, upolz Lz minous An mals, 291 except in the flying insects, which by that means discover each other at night, for the purpose of sexual congress. EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. Fig. i. The cancer fulgens, discovered by the Right Hon. Sir JOSEPH BANKS, of the natural size. Fig. 2. The same animal magnified. Fig. 3. The medusa pellucens, also found by Sir JOSEPH BANKS, represented of the natural magnitude. Fig. 4. The limulus noc'tiiucus, discovered by Captain HORSBURGI, considerably enlarged. Fig. 5. The luminous medusa, discovered by me, which I conceive to be the medusa hemispherica: it is shewn of the largest size I met with. Fig. 6. The central process of this animal's body magnified, in order to explain its structure. The thick tentacula in which it terminates are seen covered with small cups or suckers. Fig. 7. The beroe fulgens, discovered by me, shewn in its most elongated or relaxed form, which it assumes commonly when swimming quickly. Fig. 8. The same animal in the most contracted form. Fig. 9. The minute species of medusa, discovered by me, which is the most frequeint cause of the luminous appearance of the sea, representcd of the natural size. Fig. io. The same animal niagniied, exhibiting a puckered or tucked-in appeara'nce on one side. Fig. I 1. Is the animalcule discovered by FoRsrER, of the natural Size. Fig. L2. The same, greatly magnified, to shew the intesm Mr. MACART EY' Obseivahtois tinal pars. Both these figures are copied foin the oric.;-vl drawings, in the possession of the Right Hon. Sir Jo EP BANES Fig. i3. Is an enlarged view of the inferior surface of tlI> abdoin n of the lampyris lucida, after the integument haL been removed. a a a represent the three masses of luminou s substance which are applied to the three last rings of the abdomen. b b b the arrangement of cellular or i-iterstitial SubstaIce on the other, aldominal rings, which gives the pale 'colour to the whole belly of this insect. faig 4a. Represents the common glo~w~worm-, with, the pos terior portion of the back cut away to expose the sAcs of -tminotis mnatter in situ on the last ring of the belly. a indicates the sac of one sidethe intestine is seen to lie between them. Fig. , and -6. Are the sacs of the glow-worm prodigyiously magnified to shewt heir structure. Fig. i6 is cut open to ex.pose the luminous matter it contains: thecoat of the sac is still seen to preserve its figure'. Fig. 17. Is the eater noctilucus, with the shell of the corn celet removed on one side, by which the organ of light is uncovered. athe yellow transparent spot ofthe corcelet. b the oval massof luminous substance surrounded! by an irradiation of theinterstitial substance. c the ends of the muscles which were on the inside of the corcelet. rig. iAS Isthem posterior angle of the, corcelet of the elater ncetilucus magnified. a the radtated-appearanrce xwhich the interstitial substance has round the oval mass of luminous matter. This n ass is seen to consist of a rumber of smaller tarts. b shears the appearance of the interstitial substance, 1%4o4TraW. IOCCCX. -HatKI-V. p. 292. ~~~~~~~~~~j II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ alIV! 1II A '1 Ii J8ezslw c. 6 10 1317~ ~ 1 16 A s ran 17V > Z . 9? ,ilj _CM upon Luminous Animals. e9 where 't passes down between the muscles. c the ends of the muscles of the back. d the shell of the corcelet. Fig. 1i9. Represents the elater ignitus. a is the mass of luminous substance of one side, seen indistinctly through the back part of the semitransparent portion of the corcelet. b is he' luminous mass of the other side, exposed by removing a part of the shell of the corcelet. MDCCCWD q 