IV. An Account of a Luminous Appearance in the Air at Dublin, on January the 12th, 17~. By Philip Percival, Esq; Brother to the Right Honourable the Lord Percival, and communicated by his Lordship to the Royal Society. I Here send you a Sketch of an odd appearance in the Sky; it began about 10 a Clock on Tuesday last, but nothing very remarkable till about half an Hour after Eleven, when I was call'd out to see it, by the Servants, who had been looking at it about half a quarter of an Hour, and told me it looked just like Fire. But it appeared first to me in long streams of light, of a round Body, as at A, and very bright, tho' some were coloured, as at A a. They came before the Wind, which was then West, as near as I could gueis, there not being a Cloud in the Sky, and the brightest Moon I have known. We had Rain about Five, but at 6 a Clock the Night was clear. The Streams of Light A A, moved very slow, (there being but little Wind) but as they moved they joined, and, swelling out in the middle, formed themselves into the Figure b b B, continuing to advance slowly in that shape for about a Minute, when the two Ends b b, approaching near each other, as described by the D prick'd (22) prick'd Lines, the advanced part B, suddenly, and with great swiftness, ran back, and joining it self with the Ends b b, formed it self into the Figure C, quivering in the upper part, and darting down perpendicularly in sharp Points, as at D D D; and its Colour from a bright Light changed into the colours of a Rain-bow, but much fainter. It continued this way about a Minute, and then the sharp points D D D, gathering themselves up into C, it changed again into a square Sheet of Light, as at E, and swell'd out at F, as before at B; and advancing leisurely, repeated the same Scene as before, till it seem'd at a great distance to disperse it self into small thin light Clouds; tho''~is probable that to those who saw it in a like Situation, as it travell'd, it might make the same appearance as it did to me. I was very particular in observing it, and the next Morning drew it, and I think very exactly. I should have continued longer to look at it, (which I did for above a quarter of an Hour) but that it was excessive cold; the beginning of it was very like the Aurora Borealis, which has been very frequent this Winter here. V. 