[86] XIV. Observations on the Manna Persicum: By John Fothergill, M. D. Licentiate of the College of Physicians, London. I T does not appear very plain, from any thing that has occurred to me in the Writings of the elder Greek Physicians, that they were much, if at all, acquainted with any Substance that now goes under the Name of Manna. They had the Term, but applied it to a Subject very different from what we do at present. The '~ ~ ~, or the Micae thuris concussu elisae, the Bits broke off from the Olibanum in Carriage, was the Substance they knew by that Name. Read April 25. 1744; but bere printed with Additions. If the Arabians did not first of all introduce some Kind of purging Manna into Practice, they at least render'd the Use of this Drug more common and extensive. Their Country afforded several Species of it; which being familiarly known, is, perhaps, the Reason why no Descriptions have been left sufficiently clear, whereby to distinguish them from each other. Whoever has consulted the Arabian Writers, or the best of their Commentators, will allow that their Accounts are defective. That they had three Sorts of this Drug, distinguished by the Names of Manna, Tereniabin, and Siracost, is certain; but whether these are now known, or by what Appellations, has been very much disputed. Rauwolf, in his Itinerary published by Ray, and Tournefort, in his Voyage to the Levant, have given the clearest Intimations of any Writers that I know of: [87] of: If to these we add Clusius, we have all that we are to expect of Certainty, amongst those who have mention'd it; they being Eye-witnesses of what they wrote: Yet the Descriptions of these are either so imperfect or unknown, that a very late Writer upon the Materia Medica (a), either not having seen or understood them, has fallen into a Mistake about the Manna Arabum, and his Authority may perhaps mislead others. My worthy Friend Peter Collinson, having procur'd a Sort of Manna from a Gentleman at Petersburgh, under the Title of Manna Persicum ex planta Al-Hagi Maurorum, was pleas'd to favour me with a Specimen of it: I consulted the principal Writers on the Materia Medica; and, finding their Opinions to be frequently opposite, and their Accounts in general perplexed, I imagined it would not be unacceptable to the Curious, to have such a Description of this Species, as would probably make it clear, that we have one Kind of the Manna Arabum still extant, viz. the Terniabin, and prevent any future Mistakes about it. The Specimen of Manna that now lies before me, appears, at first Sight, to be a dirty reddish brown colour'd mixed Mass; which, upon a nearer View, is found to consist of, 1. A great Number of globular, crystalline, almost pellucid Bodies, of a yellowish-white Colour, and different Sizes; the biggest not much exceeding * Geoffroy Tractat. de Mat. Med. Vol. II. p. 586, &c. a large [88] a large Coriander-seed, or a very small Pea: They differ from Grains of Mastich, in being more upon the reddish Cast; but in Figure and Transparency it varies not much. 2. Some small Sticks like Prickles, and others like Footstalks of Leaves or Fruit. 3. A few narrow pointed firm small Leaves. 4. A large Quantity of long reddish-colour'd Pods, of a sweetish gelatinous Taste, containing from one to six or seven hard, irregular, somewhat Kidney-like Seeds, which to the Taste are very acerb. And, 5. Some Sand and Earth. Four Ounces of the Manna, dissolved in warm Water, left one Ounce or something more of these in the Filtre. The Globules (No 1.) are hard, and break between the Teeth like Sugar-candy; they are of a pleasant sweet Taste, with much less of the Manna Relish than the Calabrian; but with enough to discover to what Family this Substance belongs. The Sticks, Leaves, Pods, &c. seem to be Parts of the Plant that produces the Manna. Some of the Seeds have been sown, and proved so fresh as to afford some Plants of the Alhagi. About the Year 1537, when Rauwolf wrote his Itinerary, it appears, that large Quantities of this Kind of Manna were brought from Persia to Aleppo, where it was then known under the Name of Trunschibil or Trunschibin; a Corruption, doubtless, of [89] of the antient Terenjabin; or, as it ought to be wrote, according to Deusingius *, Terengjabin. Rauwolf informs us, that this Species of Manna was gather'd from the Alhagi; a Plant which is minutely described by Tournefort ~, who also confirms the Account which Rauwolf had long before given, with the following Particuiars: `` It is chiefly (says he) about Tauris, a City in `` Persia, that it is gather'd, under the Name of Trun`` gibin or Terenjabin, mention'd by Avicenna and `` Serapion: Those Authors thought it fell upon `` certain prickly Shrubs; whereas it is only the `` nutritious Juice of the Plant.'' He adds, `` That, `` during the great Heats, you perceive small Drops `` of Honey upon the Leaves and Branches of `` these Shrubs; these Drops harden, in Grains about `` the Bigness of Coriander-seeds: They gather those `` of the Alhagi, and make them into reddish Cakes `` full of Dust and Leaves, which alter the Colour, `` and lessen its Virtue. This Manna is much infe`` rior to the Italian. The ordinary Dose is from `` 25 to 30 Drams.'' Clusius ~ informs us, that the Terniabin of the modern Arabs is gather'd from a prickly Shrub, such as the Alhagi is described to be. Avicenna **, according to his present Translation, tells us, that the * Deusingius Tract. de Manna & Sacch. p. 11. ~ Tournefort's Voyage to the Levant, Vol. I. p. 247, 248. ~ Clus. Exotic. Vol. II. p. 164. ** Avicen. Oper. Tom. I. p. 404. M Tere[90] Tereniabin falls super Lapides; but * Deusingius says that it ought to be read, super Alhagi; and that his Translators were led into this Mistake, from the Resemblance betwixt Al-Hhagier (the Word in the Arabic Text, and which signifies a kind of thorny Plant, such as the Alhagi is said to be) to Al-Hagio. It is therefore evident, that the Manna Persicum, now before us, is the Tereniabin, Terenjabin, Terraejenbin, or more properly, the Terengjabin, of the old Arabians, and of Clusius; the Trungibin, or Truns~, of the later, of Rauwolf and Tournefort; very probably, the Manna mastichina orientalis of Matthiolus and Bauhine; as it is the Mastichina and Alhagina of Geoffroy; tho' this Author makes the Tereniabin a Species of Liquid Manna ~, in Complaisance to his Countryman Bellonius; who, tho' in general a diligent Observer, yet, in this Case, was misled by the Caloyers, or Monks of Mount Sinai. Bellonius says, in his Observations ~, and more largely in his Treatise de Arboribus perpetua Fronde virentibus, that these Caloyers collect a kind of liquid Manna, which they call Tereniabin; that this Species was known in the Shops at Cairo by the same Name; and that this is the Mel roscidum of Galen, and the Mel cedrinum of Hippocrates. I think it is very plain, that Bellonius was mistaken in the first Part of his Assertion, from what * Tract. de Manna, p. 19. ~ Tract. de Mat. Med. Tom. II. p. 587~ ~ Bellonii Observ. apud Clus. p. 129. has [91] has already been advanced. The Caloyers told him, that they called it Tereniabin; and he takes it for granted, that it was the Tereniabin of the old Arabians, contrary to their own Accounts, supported by the Testimony of their Successors, who are known to vary as little as any People whatever from the Traditions and Customs of their Predecessors, and still retain a great many of their Appellations. For Proof of this, I need only refer to the Accounts which Rauwolf, Tournefort, and Dr. Shaw, give us of those People. That this liquid Manna was the ~, seu ~, of Galen *; and the ~ ~, of Hippocrates ~, (supposing there is no Mistake in the Text), seems very probable. The Description which Galen has left of the Mel roscidum, and the Manner of collecting it on Mount Sinai in his Time, tallies exactly with Bellonius's Account; and thus far, I believe, all Authors agree: But that the Virtues of Manna were known so early as in the Times of these Two Authors, will be difficult to prove. Galen takes notice of this Mel roscidum more as a Curiosity, than a Medicine. He no-where, that I know of, mentions its Use, or describes its Qualities: He introduces the Account of it with a Memini aliquando, and says, that the Mel roscidum was rarely met with in his Country, but was gather'd at Mount Sinai every Year: And, indeed, from the Manner * Galen. de Alem. Facult. L. III. c. 39. ~ Hippocrat. de Ulceribus, p. 876. Edit. Foesii. M 2 in [92] in which it is spoken of by an old Greek Writer in Athaeneus, as cited by Salmasius, it would seem, that it was only used for Pleasure, as an agreeable Sweet, Melle ipso suavius; and, probably, continued to be of no other Use. Mesue tells us *, that Galen mixed Manna with Scammony. In the spurious Piece de Dynamiis ascribed to Galen, Scammony is ordered to be mixed with Honey; but never once mentions Manna in any of his extant Writings. As Galen is known to be very minute in his Account of the Materia Medica of that Time, his Silence is a strong Argument against the Supposition, that even the Mel roscidum was in Pharmaceutic Use, much less any other Species of Manna. If Galen was unacquainted with this Substance, it is very probable, that Hippocrates was so likewise; since a Drug that must have made a considerable Figure in his Materia Medica, would not have soon been struck off the List, or dropp'd into Oblivion and Disuse. But how shall we get rid of the ~ ~; the Name sufficiently intimating what Substance was intended? Perhaps Foesius's Suggestion may help us. He thinks, that the Words might have been read with a Comma intervening, whereby we should have had Two distinct well-known Substances, Honey, and Resin of the Cedar; Two Simples that were then, and continued long after, in familiar Use; instead of one, which he mentions no-where else, and seems to be unknown some Ages after. ~ Mesue de Simpl. c. 8. Upon [93] Upon the whole, I have not hitherto met with Evidence snfficient to induce me to believe, that either the Mel roscidum, or any Kind of Manna, was in common medical Use either with Hippocrates or Galen. Actuarius mentions it once *, and, as I know of, only once: He makes it a Purgative, and to be somewhat stronger than Cassia. It is now pretty generally known, that the Manna's in Use are not a Mel aerium, or Honey-Dew, as was long believed, but a Succus proprius issuing out of some particular Trees, at proper Seasons, and in some Climates only; and that, during the Summer's Heats, a great Number of Vegetables, in almost all the temperate Countries, afford a Juice somewhat akin to Manna, from whence the Bee collects and prepares her Honey. It may not, however, be amiss, nor very foreign to our Subject, to exhibit a short Account, how the Manna Officinarum is collected. In Calabria and Sicily, in the hottest Part of the Summer-Months, the Manna ouzes out of the Leaves, and from the Bark of the Trunk, and larger Branches, of the Fraxinus, or Calabrian Ash. The Ornus likewise affords it, but from the Trunk and larger Branches only, and that chiefly from artificial Apertures; whereas it flows from the Fraxinus thro' every little Cranny, and bursts thro' the large Pores spontaneously. What is got from different Parts of the Tree acquires different Names; the Trunks generally afford * Actuar. Method. Medend. L. V. ~. 8. those [94] those large white Pieces to which we give the Name of flaky; but the finest of all is such as is collected from artificial Incisions, in which little Straws, &c. are purposely placed in such a manner, as that the flowing Juice may concrete upon them, and form those long, white, cylindrical, perforated Pieces, which are so much valued. This Juice is secreted in the largest Quantity, betwixt Noon and Evening. In the Night it is condens'd, if the Season is dry, otherwise the Manna is spoil'd: They scrape off the small with wooden Knives, early in the Morning, and gather the larger Flakes; both which are afterwards dried upon clean Paper in the Sun, till they stick no longer to the Fingers; and the different Sorts are then carefully pack'd up for Use and Exportation. XV. 