A Chronological Accompt Of the several Incendium's or Fires of Mount AEtna. THe present Fire of AEtna, (whereof there was lately a Relation printed here in the Savoy) will make it appear not unseasonable to reflect back upon former Ages, and to collect from History the severall Eruptions hapned there, together with the times of them, and some observations recorded by Authors concerning the same. To pass by what is related by Berosus, Orpheus and other less credible Authors, about the Eruptions of this Mountain, both at the time of the ingress of the Ionian Colonies into Sicily, and that of the Argonautes (which latter was in the 12th Age before the Christian account;) we shall first take notice of that, which happen'd at the time of the Expedition of AEneas, who being terrified by the fire of this then burning Mountain, left that Island; whereof Virgil l. 3. AEneid. gives this notable description; Ignarique viae, Cyclopum allabimur oris, Portus ab accessu ventorum immotus et ingens, Ipse sed horrificis juxta tonat aetna ruinis, Interdumque etiam prorumpit ad aethera nubem Turbine fumantem piceo et candente favilla. Attollitque globos flammarum, et sidera lambit. Interdum (968) Interdum scopulos, avulsaque viseera Montis Erigit eructans, liquefactaque saxa sub auras Cum gemitu glomerat, fundoque exaestuat imo. After this we find in Thucydides, that in the 76. Olympiad, which is about 476 before Christ, there was another Fire, and about 50. years after that, another. Then, in the time of the Roman Consulls there haped four E ruptions of AEtna, recorded by Diodorus Siculus and Polybius. The next was in the time of Julius Caesar, related by the said Diodorus to have been so feirce, that the Sea about Lipara (an island neere Sicily) by its servent heat burnt the Ships, and kill'd all Fishes thereabout. Another we read of in the Reign of Caligula, about 40. years after Christ, which was so dreadful, that it made that Emperour, then being in Sicily, to fly for it. About the Martyrdome of the Romish S. Agatha it burned againe very fiercely; though some say, that by vertue of her intercession it was stay'd from reaching Catania. Againe it burnt A. C. 812. in the Reign of Charles M. Then from they year 1160 to 1669. whole Sicily was shiken with many terrible Earth-quakes, and the Eruptions of the same Mountain destroyed a vast tract of inhabited land round about it,and reacht as far as Catania; the Cathedtal of which it destroy'd and the religious men living in it. Againe,in the year 1284.there happened another terrible fire about the time of the death of Charles king of Sicily and Arragon. A. 1329 until 1333. there was another. A. 1408. another. A. 1414. another, which lasted till 1447. A. 1536. another, which lasted a year. A. 1633. another, continuing several years. A. 1650. it burnt on the North-East-side, and vomited so much fire, that by the fiery Torrents, caused thereby, great devastation was made, as Kircher relates in his Mundus subterraneus; whose assistance we have also made use of in the foregoing Chronology together with that o` Philotheus. The same Author, having been in Sicily himself, observeth, that the people of Catania, digging for Pumice-stones, do find at the depth of 100 palmes (which is about 68. feet) Streetinaved (969) ved with Marble, and many footsteps of Antiquity; an argument, that Towns have stood there in former ages, which have been overwhelmed by the Matter cast out of this Mountain. They have also found several Bridges of Pumice-stones, doubtless made by the flux of the fiery Torrents, the Earth being very much raised since. Now whether these Eruptions are caused by actual subteraneous Fires, lighting upon combustible matter; or by Fire struck out of falling and breaking stones, whose sparks meet with Nitro-sulphureous or other inflamable substances heap'd together in the bowels of the Earth, and by the expansive violence of the Fire forc'd to take more room, and so bursting out with the impetuosity we see; may not be unworthy of a philosopher's speculation. 