[419] XX. An Essay on Pyrometry and Areometry, and on Physical Measures in general. By John Andrew De Luc, F. R. S. P A R T T H E F I R S T. Concerning the measure of the expansion of solids by heat. MY investigations of this measure have been owing to accident. A new Hygrometer led me to them: I have already mentioned this instrument in the paper which the Royal Society has done me the honour to insert in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions. I had Read March 19, 26, and April 9, 1778. Essai sur la Pyrometrie et l' Areometrie, et sur les Mesures Physiques en general. P ar J. A. De Luc, Membre de la Societe Royale, &c. P R E M I E R E P A R T I E. De la mesure des expansions des solides par la chaleur. MES recherches sur cette mesure ont ete accidentelles: c'est un nouvel Hygrometre qui en est l'occasion. Je faisois deja mention de cet instrument dans le memoire que la Societe Royale m'a fait l'honneur d'inserer dans les Transact. Phil. de l'annee derniere. D d d 17 Je 420 Mr. DE LUC on I had carried it with me to the top of the Hartz, with an intention to repeat there the observation upon the dryness of mountainous air, which I had made in the Alps; but it fell out, as it often does on mountains, that what I did observe was the extreme humidity. I will not enter upon the construction of this instrument, which I have not yet been able to take up again, to bring it to the exactness of which it is capable: all that is necessary to mention here is, that it is made of ivory, as the first was, but in a glass frame; and that the effects of the humor upon ivory being inconsiderable, I wanted, in order to measure them correctly, to destroy the effect of heat upon the frame, which I have done (as in the compound pendulum) by the expansion of a rod of brass in a contrary direction. But to do this it became necessary to determine the proportion between the Je l'avois porte sur la plus haute sommite du Hartz, dans l'intention d'y repeter l'observation de la fecheresse de l'air des montagnes, que j'avois faite dans les Alpes: mais il arriva, ce qui arrive aussi tres souvent sur les montagnes, que ce fut l'humidite extreme que j'y observai. Je n'entrerai pas dans le detail de la construction de cet instrument, que je n'ai pu reprendre encore pour l'amener au point d'exactitude dont il est susceptible: il susfira de dire ici, qu'il est d'yvoire comme le premier que j'avois imagine, que sa monture est de verre, et que les effets de l'humor sur l'yvoire etant peu considerables, j'ai voulu, pour les mesurer correctement, detruire l'effet de la chaleur sur la monture; ce qui s'execute, comme dans les pendules composes par l'expansion en sens contraire d'une lame de leton. Il failloit donc determiner les rapports Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 421 the dilatations of brass and glass by heat, and that was the occasion which led me to Pyrometry. One cannot advance a step towards the improvement of any of the sciences, without contributing at the same time to bring the others to the same level. Being thus obliged to know with some degree of accuracy the relations of dilatations between brass and glass, I began by considering the methods which had been made use of to estimate them, and found in them nothing but uncertainty. The mountings of the instruments were to be suspected, and their influence not sufficiently guarded against: Micrometers appeared to me uncertain; for wheels and levers are liable to almost unavoidable irregularities; similar degrees of pressure in the contact are difficult to estamate; and such methods of increasing small physical rapports des dilatations du leton et du verre par la chaleur; et c'est objet qui m'a jette dans la Pyrometrie. On ne sauroit faire avancer d'un degre vers la perfection quelque branche des sciences, sans qu'elle tende a porter les autres au meme niveau. Me trouvant donc dans la necessite de connoitre avec quelque precision ces rapports des dilatations du leton et du verre, je reflechis sur les moyens qu'on avoit employes pour les determiner, et je n'y trouvai qu'incertitude. Les montures des machines me parurent suspectes; je ne trouvai pas qu'on fut assez a l'abri des effets de leur propre dilatation: les Micrometres surtout me parurent peu surs: car des rouages et des leviers sont sujets a des irregularites-presque inevitables; des degres semblables de pression dans les contacts sont difficiles a saisir; et agrandir ainsi 422 Mr. DE LUC on physical effects render them indeed more apparent, but do not at all contribute to their exact mensuration. I had heard the ingenious Mr. RAMSDEN say, that he had a notion of a Pyrometer different from all that had been invented; and knowing his great skill in philosophical and mechanical matters, I applied to him, and pressed him to execute his idea. The multitude of his other engagements prevented his complying with my request; and he advised me to look no farther for the proportions of the expansions of brass and glass than to Mr. SMEATON'S experiments, which he looked upon, with reason, as the best that had been made(a). Still, however, upon my desiring him to explain by what means he thought of being able to correct the faults of the ancient instruments, he was kind (a) Phil. Trans. 1754. enough ainsi les petits essets physiques, c'est bien les rendre plus apparents, mais nullement les mesurer avec exactitude. J'avois oui dire a l'ingenieux Mr. RAMSDEN, qu'il avoit l'idee d'un Pyrometre different de tous les atures; et connoissant sa grande intelligence dans les matieres de physique et de mechanique, j'eus recours a lui, et je le pressai d'execute son plan. Mais la multitude des objets qui l'occupent l'en empecha, et il me conseilla de m'en tenir pour le rapport des expansions du leton et du verre, aux experiences de Mr. SMEATON, qu'il regardoit avec raison comme les plus sures *. Je priai cependant Mr. RAMSDEN de m'expliquer par quel moyen il comptoit de pouvoir eviter les defauts des machines anciennes; et il eut la complaisance * Phil. Trans. 1754. de Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 423 enought to do it, and told me, that he proposed measuring the expansions of bodies, by the Micrometer of a Microscope; by which means he should obviate the greatest mechanical difficulties. He added, moreover, that he had made a first trial of his method a long while ago, and was assured of the success. This idea struck me, and being very desirous of following it in my present need, I determined, if I could hit upon any method within my compass of ability, to undertake to execute it myself. I found many difficulties so long as I only thought of absolute measures of the expansions of bodies. I was determined not to set to work without the hope of making an instrument that should be really an exact one, and the Micrometer always puzzled me. But coming happily to reflect that I did not want absolute measures, de le faire. Il me dit donc, qu'il se proposit de mesurer les expansions des corps, au moyen du Micrometre d'un Microscope; ce qui eviteroit les plus grandes difficultes mechaniques: il ajouta meme, qu'il avoit sait depuis long tems un premier essai de cette methode, et qu'il etoit persuade du succes. Cette idee me frappa; et desirant beaucoup d'en faire usage dans mon besoin present, je me determinai a entreprendre de l'executer moi-meme, si je pouvois imaginer quelque moyen qui fut a ma portee. Je trouvai beaucoup de difficultes a cette entreprise, tant que je ne songeai qu'a des mesures absolues des expansions des corps. Je ne voulois pas mettre la main a l'oeuvre, sans avoir l'esperance de faire ~machine vraiment exacte; et le Micrometre m'embrassoit toujours. Mais venant heureusement a considerr, que 424. DE LUC on measures, and that it was enough for me to find the proportions of dilatibility between two different bodies, I was led by that idea to a very simple method, which made all the difficulties vanish, and gave me the confidence I wanted to set me to work. Afterwards, indeed, I went much farther than I expected in the absolute measures themselves, as I shall shew, after having first explained how I proposed to ascertain the relative expansions, and the great advantage of that method in practice. Principle on which is founded the comparative measure of the expansions of bodies by heat. I suppose(b) a person to take two rods of the same sort of substance, or of two different substances equally dilatable que je n'avois pas besoin de measures absolues, et qu'il me suffisoit de trouver avec certitude les rapports des dilatabilites de deux corps differens, je fus conduit par la a une idee fort simple, ou toutes les difficultes s'evanouirent: ce qui me donna la confiance dont j'avois besoin pour mettre la main a l'oeuvre. Mais ensuite j'ai ete plus Ioin que je n'aurois ose esperer, dans les mesures absolues memes: c'est ce que j'exposerai, apres avoir explique d'abord, comment je me proposai de trouver les expansions relatives, et la surete qu'il y a dans la pratique en les envisageant sous ce point de vue. Principe de mesure comparative des expansions des corps par la chaleur. Je suppose (b) qu'on prenne deux branches de meme matiere, ou de matieres Egalement dilatables par la chaleur, et que, les posant l'une sur l'autre, on les (b) See plate, VII. fig. 1. and its explanation. lie Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 425 dilatable by heat, and laying them one over the other, to rivet them together at one of their ends. If then they are solidly suspended by the opposite end of one of the rods only, and on the free rod there be marked a point, at the level of the point of suspension of the other; these two points will remain equally immoveable, whatever be the heat which affects the two rods, so long as it affects them equally: for the expansion downwards in the fixed rod will be compensated by the expansion upwards in that which is free; and consequently, the point marked upon this will always remain equally high, that is, corresponding in the same manner with the point of suspension of other; so the proportion of expansions of the two rods will be that of equality, since the distances from the point of union of the rods to the two immoveable points will be equal; and that, consequently, lie ensemble par un de leurs bouts: si on les suspend solidement par le bout oppose de l'une des branches seulement, et qu'on marque un point sur la branche libre vis a du point de suspension de l'autre, ces deux points resteront egalement immobiles, quelle que soit la chaleur qui affecte les deux branches, des que ce sera egalement: car l'allongement vers le bas dans la branche fixee, sera compense par ~ vers le haut dans la branche libre; et par consequent le point marque sur celle-ci, restera toujours exactement a la meme hauteur, c'est a dire vis a vis du point de suspension de l'autre. Ainsi le rapport des expansibilites des deux branches, sera celui d'egalite; puisque la distance du point de reunion des branches, aux deux points immobiles, sera la meme, et que V O L. LXVIII. E e e par 426 Mr. DE LUC on sequently, the same length of the two substances will be requisite to produce the same lengthening of them by heat. But if the free rod should have more or less expansibility than the fixed rod, the immoveable point of the former will not be any longer at the same height as the point of suspension of the latter; it will be lower, if its expansibility be greater, because a less length of this rod will be required to make up for the whole lengthening of the other. It will be higher, on the contrary, if its expansibility be less; and the distances, from the point immoveable by suspension, and the point immoveable by compensation, to the point of union, will be always in the inverse ratio of the expansibility of the two substances. If then we can find this immoveable point by compensation, and its distance from the point of union, that of the point of suspension being given, we shall have the relation par consequent il aura fallu une meme longueur des deux matieres, pour produire un meme allongement par la chaleur. Mais si la branche libre a plus ou moins d'expansibilite que la branche fixee, ie point immobile de la premiere, ne sera plus vis a vis du point de suspension de l'autre: il sera plus bas si son expansibilite est plus grande; parce qu'il faudra moins de longueur de cette branche, pour compenser tout l'allongement de l'autre: il sera plus haut au contraire, si son expansibilite est moindre: et les distances du point de reunion, au point immobile par la suspension et au point immobile par compensation, seront toujours en raison inverse de l'expansibilite des deux matieres. Trouver donc ce point immobile par compensation, et sa distance au point de reunion, celle du point de suspension etant connue, ce sera trouver le rapport des expansibilites Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 427 relation of the expansibilities of the two substances. Now nothing is easier than to do this by means of a Microscope, furnished with a single immoveable wire; for the wire being fitted to a point of the free rod, and the two rods being equally warmed, if this point moves, it is a sign that it is not that which is sought for, which will then soon be found by pointing the Microscope higher or lower on the free rod, accoridng to what shall have been indicated by the first trials. Thus then will the relation of the expansibilities of two substances be procured without the necessity of having recourse to any Micrometer; consequently, without the risks of the errors those instruments are subject to, when they are used in very nice measures. All that will be necessary for the exactness of the observations will only be, expansibilites des deux matieres. Or il est tres aise de le trouver par le moyen d'un Microscope muni d'un seul fil immobile. Car en ajustant ce fil sur un point de la branche libre, et echauffant egalement les deux branches, si ce point se meut, ce ne sera pas celui qu'on cherche; mais on le trouvera bientot par tatonnement, en pointant le Microscope plus haut ou plus bas sur la branche libre, suivant que les premieres tentatives l'auront indique. On aura donc ainsi les rapports des expansibilites de deux matieres, sans besoin de Micrometre, et par consequent sans etre expose aux erreurs qu'il pourroit introduire dans des mesures aussi delicates: et tout ce qui est necessaire pour l'exactitude ne consiste qu'a s'assurer, qu'un Microscope E e e 2 et 428 Mr. DE LUC on be, to be assured, that, whilst the substances compared are warming, a Microscope and a point of suspension will be secured from being disturbed by any motion; which is not very difficult. Description of an instrument, intended to find out the comparative expansibilities of bodies by heat. I flatter myself, that a description will make this instrument sufficiently understood to render it unnecessary for me to give a figure of it: should the Society, however, be desirous of having a drawing of it, I shall with pleasure obey their commands(c). The basis of the instrument is a rectangular piece of deal-board, very strait-grained, two feet and a half long, fifteen inches broad, and one inch and a half thick: it is to this that all the other parts are fixed. The first thing I did et un point de suspension seront mis a l'abri de tout mouvement, tandis qu'on echauffera les matieres comparees; ce qui n'est pas bien difficile. Description d'un instrument destine a trouver les expansibilites comparatives des corps par la chaleur. Je crois pouvoir me dispenser de donner une figure de ma machine, parce que j'espere qu'une simple description la fera comprendre. Si cependant la Societe Royale souhaitoit que je la fisse dessiner, je me conformerois a son intention (c). Une planche de sapin a fibres bien droites, de 21/2 pieds de long, 15 pouces de large, et 11/2 pouce d'epaisseur, fait la base de la machine. C'est a cette planche (c) See plate VII. fig. 2. and its explanation. que Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 429 I did was, to mount it in the manner of a table, with four deal legs, each a foot long, and an inch and a half square, very solidly fitted near its four angles, and kept together at the other ends by four cross pieces, likewise very solid. I shall always consider this small table as hung to a stand, capable of being transported to whatever part there is most light in; the board being in a vertical situation in the direction of its grain, and bearing its legs forward in such a manner as that the cross pieces which join them may from a frame, likewise placed vertically facing the observer. This frame sustains the Microscope, which is firmly fixed in another frame that moves in the former by means of grooves; but with such a degree of tightness as to render it necessary to use small strokes of a hammer in order to make it slide. The pressure of four screws will que sont attachees toutes les autres parties. Je l'ai montee d'abord comme uno petite table, ayant quatre jambes de sapin d'un pied de long et d'11/2 pouce en quarre, posees bien solidement pres de ses quatre angles, et reunies a l'autre extremite par quatre traverses aussi tres solides. Je supposerai toujours cette petite table suspendue a un support propre a etre transporte la ou l'on aura le plus de lumiere, sa planche etant dans une situation verticale dans la direction de ses fibres, et portant ses quatre jambes en avant, de maniere que les traverses qui les reunissent forment un cadre, situe aussi verticalement en face de l'observateur. C'est a ce cadre qu'est solidement adapte le Microscope, dans un chassis qui monte et descend a coulisse, et avec assez de justesse, pour qu'il faille employer de petits coups de marteau pour le faire mouvoir: la pression de quatre 430 Mr. DE LUC on will give it the degree of friction one thinks proper. I preferred this mode to that of moving the Microscope by a screw, because this last would have required metal, which is more susceptible of the impressions of heat than deal is; and because the execution of it would have been longer, and more expensive, from the degree of perfection it would have required, whilst this simple method has succeeded perfectly well. The inner sliding frame, which is likewise of deal, keeps the tube of the Microscope in an horizontal position, and in great part without the frame, insomuch that the end which carries the lens is but little within the space between the frame and the board. This Microscope is constructed in such a manner as that the object observed may be an inch distant from the lens, and it quatre vis lui donne le degre de frottement que l'on veut. J'ai prefere ce moyen, a celui de conduire le Microscope par une vis; parce que ce dernier auroit exige du metal, plus susceptible des impressions de la chaleur que le sapin; et que l'execution auroit ete plus longue et plus dispendieuse, par la perfection qu'elle eut exige: tandis que cette voye simple a parfaitement reussi. Le chassis, qui est aussi de sapin, tient le tube du Microscope situe horizontalement, et en grande partie au dehors du cadre; tellement que le bout qui porte la lentille n'est que fort peu en dedans de l'espace compris entre le cadre et la planche. Ce Microscope est construit de maniere, que l'objet observe peut etre 4 a un Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 431 it has a wire which is situated in the focus of the glasses in which the objects appear reversed. At the top of the apparatus there is a piece of deal, an inch and a half thick, and two inches broad, lain in an horizontal direction from the board to the top of the frame. It is this piece to which the rods of the different substances, whose expansion by heat one wants to measure, are suspended: one end of it slides into a socket, which is cut in the thickness of the board; and the other end, which rests upon the frame, meets there with a screw which makes the piece move backwards and forwards, to bring the objects to the focus of the Microscope. There is a cork very strongly driven through a hole bored vertically through this piece; and it is in another hole, likewise vertical, made through the cork, that a un pouce de distance de la lentille; et il porte un fil au foyer des verres, ou les objets se peignent renverses. Au haut de l'appareil est une piece de sapin, d'un pouce et demi d'epaisseur et de deux pouces de largeur, qui part horizontalement de la planche et vient se reposer sur le haut du cadre. C'est a cette piece que sont suspendues verticalement les branches des diverses matieres dont on veut mesurer l'expansion par la chaleur: elle glisse par un bout, en tenon, dans une mortaise percee dans l'epaisseur de la planche; et l'autre bout, qui repose sur la cadre, y est recu par une vis qui fait mouvoir la piece en arriere ou en avant, pour amener les objets au soyer du Microscope. Un bouchon de liege passe avec force par un trou perce verticalement dans cette piece; et c'est par un trou, aussi vertical, qui traverse ce 432 Mr. DE LUC on that the rods are fixed at the top: so that they hang only, and their dilatation is not counteracted by any pressure. In order to convince myself of the solidity of this instrument, I adjusted the wire of the Microscope upon a point of a rod thus suspended, and left it in that state for several hours, during which I not only moved but struck the machine, without perceiving any change in the relative position between the point and the wire, which perfectly answered my end. The next thing to be done was to heat my rods: for this purpose I procured a cylindrical bottle of thin glass, about twenty-one inches high, and four inches in diameter, which I placed in the inside of my machine, upon a stand independent of the rest of the apparatus. The rods are suspended in this bottle at a little less than an inch ce liege, que les branches sont retenues par leur bout superieur: elles sont <inferred>ainsi</inferred> simplement suspendues, et par consequent leur dilatation ne se consume a aucun effort. Pour m'assurer de la solidite de cette machine, j'ajustai le fil du Microscope sur un point d'une branche ainsi suspendue, et je le laissai dans cet etat pendant plusieurs heures, en transportant et heurtant meme la machine, sans appercevoir aucun changement dans le rapport du point avec le fil: ce qui repondoit parfaitement a mon but. Il s'agissoit alors d'echauffer mes branches. Je fis faire pour cela une bouteille cylindrique de verre mince, de 21 pouces de haut et de 4 pouces de diametre, que je placai dans l'interieur de ma machine sur un support independant de tout le reste de l'appareil. Les branches pendent dans cette bouteille a un peu 7 moins Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 433 inch distance from one of the sides, in order to have them near the Microscope. I poured into this bottle water of different degrees of heat, which I stirred about with a little piece of wood, fastened horizontally at the end of a stick, which I moved upwards and downwards at one of the sides of the bottle; in this water I hung a thermometer, the ball of which reached to the middle of the height of the rods. The water during these operations rises to the cork, which thus determines the length of the heated part: the bottle is covered, to prevent the water from cooling too rapidly at the surface; and a thin case of brass prevents the deposit of the vapor upon the piece of deal to which the rods are fixed. This moins d'une pouce de distance de l'un des cotes, parce qu'il faut qu'elles soyent a portee du Microscope. Je verse de l'eau a diverses temperatures dans cette bouteille, et pendant les experiences, j'agite cette eau par le moyen d'une petite planchette tenue horizontalement au bout d'un baton, que je fais mouvoir de haut en bas et de bas en haut a l'un des cotes de la bouteille. Je suspends dans cette eau un Thermometre dont la boule atteint le milieu de la hauteur des branches. L'eau, pendant les operations, s'eleve jusqu'au liege, qui determine ainsi la longueur de la partie echaussee. La bouteille a un couvercle, pour empecher le refroidissement trop rapide de l'eau a la surface; et un etui de leton mince empeche sa vapeur de se deposer sur la piece de sapin ou les branches sont fixees. F f f Voila 434 Mr. DE LUC on This is a sketch of my machine, the whole of which consists in the keeping the Microscope and the point of suspension of the rods free from motion during the observation, and in heating the rods with water. I will now give an account of the experiments I have made with it. Application of the method of finding the proportions between the expansibilities of different matters by heat. Determination of the relative expansibilities of brass and glass. The first experiment I made with this machine was that which I wanted for my Hygrometer. I took a glass tube, similar to those which are made use of for common Voila l'esquisse de cette machine, ou tout consiste a rendre le Microscope et le point de suspension des branches a l'abri de mouvement pendant l'observation; et a echauffer les branches par le moyen de l'eau. Je vais maintenant rendre compte des experiences que j'ai faites par son moyen. Application de la methode de trouver les rapports des expansibilites de matieres differentes par la chaleur.-Determination des expansibilities relatives au leton et du verre. La premiere experience que je fis avec cette machine, fut celle dont j'avois besoin pour mon Hygrometre. Je pris une branche de verre percee, semblable a celles qu'on employe aux Barometres communs dont le tube est fort epais: ces tubes Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 435 common Barometers; that which I used for the frame of my Hygrometer, and on which I made the experiment, had an external diameter of about three-eighths, and an internal of about one-eighth of an inch: the rod was from twenty-one to twenty-two inches long, but it passed under the cork only eighteen English inches, reckoning from the point to which was fixed at its bottom the lamella of brass the dilatation of which I wanted to compare with that of the glass. The lamella was applied from this point lengthways and upwards along the tube: it had been made thin by rollers, to render it the more elastic; and as it was too thin to support itself upright, I kept it stretched in that direction by means of a thread, which, going over a pulley, bore at its other end a weight fit to give it the same degree of tension which it has in my Hygrometer. Upon tubes dont je fais usage pour la monture de mes Hygrometres, et que je soumis a l'experience, ont environ 3/8 de pouce de diametre exterieur, et d' 1/8 a l'interieur. Le tube que j'emploiai avoit 21 a 22 pouces de long, mais il n'excedoit le liege que de 18 pouces Anglois, a compter du point ou etoit fixee dans le bas la lame de leton dont je voulois comparer la dilatation avec celle du verre. De ce point, la lame de leton s'elevoit le long du tube. Elle etoit faite au laminoir pour la rendre plus elastique; et comme elle se trouvoit trop mince pour se soutenir de hout par par elle-meme, je la tenois tendue dans cette direction par un sil, qui, passant ~ une poulie, portoit a son autre bout un poids propre a lui donner le meme degrede tention qu'elle eprouve dans mon Hygrometre. F f f 2 J'avois 436 Mr. DE LUC on Upon this lamella I had marked a scale which began at its point of uion with the glass, and was divided into small equal parts at the space along which I thought I might be obliged to move my Microscope, in order to look for the point which would neither rise nor fall by the variations of the heat. Hitherto the difficulties had been inconsiderable, or rather I had experienced none at all: but it was not so in the physical inquiry which was my first object. The nearer we survey nature, the more we see of the difficulty there is in unfolding her mysteries; as in the affairs of ordinary life, those ever find them the most difficult, who understand them best. The moral and physical Microscope are equally fit to render men cautious in their theories. The J'avois trace sur cette lame une echelle qui partoit de son point de reunion avec le verre, divisee en petites parties egales dans l'etendue ou je pensois pouvoir etre oblige de promener mon Microscope pour chercher ce point fixe, c'est a dire le point qui ne monteroit ni ne descendroit par les variations de la chaleur. Les difficultes avoient ete fort peu considerables jusques la, ou plutot je n'en avois eprouve aucune. Mais il n'en fut pas de meme dans la recherche physique qui etoit mon premier objet. Plus nous voyons de pres la Nature, plus nous appercevons les difficultes qu'elle oppose a se laisser devoiler. C'est ainsi que dans les affaires memes de la vie, il n'y a personne qui les trouve plus difficiles que ceux qui les voyent le mieux. Le Microscope, physique ou moral, est bien fait pour rendre l'homme circonspect dans ses theories. La Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 437 The first physical difficulty I met with was not new to me: I had already met with it in two different machines in which I had made use of metals; in the one, to mark the variations of the heat; in the other, to compensate the effects of it: it was the irregular dilatations of metals. The last of these machines, which is that on which I have bestowed the most care, and which I have studied with the greatest attention, corrects the effects of the heat upon a Barometer, and upon an Hygrometer of my first construction, which is joined to it. A strong rod of well hardened brass supports upon an edge, at a convenient distance from the center of motion, a lever, which holds the scale of the Barometer suspended, and makes it rise or fall by the dilatation or condensation of the brass rod, as the quicksilver rises or falls in the La premiere des difficultes physiques que j'ai rencontrees ne m'etoit pas inconnue: je l'avois deja eprouvee en deux machines differentes ou j'avois employe des metaux, dans l'une pour marquer les variations de la chaleur, et dans l'autre pour en compenser les effets; c'est l'irregularite des dilatations des metaux. La derniere de ces machines, qui est celle a laquelle j'avois donne le plus de soin, et que j'ai etudiee avec le plus d'attention, corrige les effets de la chaleur sur un Barometre, et sur un Hygrometre de ma premiere construction qui lui est joint. Une forte branche de leton, bien durcie a la filiere, soutient sur un tranchant, a une distance convenable du centre de mouvement, un levier qui tient suspendue l'echelle du Barometre, et qui la sait monter ou descendre, par la dilatation ou condensation de la branche de leton, comme le mercure monte ou descend 438 Mr. DE LUC on the Barometer, by the corresponding variations of heat. This scale of the Barometer, when it moves, draws or loosens a thread of silk-grass, which goes over a small pulley placed upon the same axis with a much larger one, to which the scale of the Hygrometer is hung likewise by a similar thread, which thus varies, by the proportion of the diameters of the pullies, as the heat makes the quicksilver in the Hygrometer vary. This instrument is extremely convenient for meteorological observations, because it saves one observation, and two corrections for the heat, and thus makes a saving of time, which is specially precious to the Astronomer, who has so many objects of attention. But it is necessary from time to time to correct an irregularity in it, which one easily perceives by means of an index carried by the moveable scales descend dans le Barometre par les variations correspondantes de la chaleur. Cette echelle du Barometre, dans ses mouvemens, tire ou ~ un fil de pite, qui passe sur une petite poulie, mise sur un meme axe avec une autre beaucoup plus grande a laquelle pend, aussi par un fil de pite, l'echelle de l'Hygrometre, qui varie ainsi, par le rapport des diametres des poulies, comme la chaleur fait varier le mercure de l'Hygrometre. Cet instrument est tres commode pour les observations meteorologiques, parce qu'il dispense d'une observation et de deux corrections pour la chaleur, et qu'il epargne ainsi du tems; aeconomie principalement utile a l Astronome, qui a tant d'objets d'attention a la fois. Mais il faut y corriger de tems en tems une irregularite, qu'on appercoit aisement par le moyen d'un index que portent les echelles Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 439 scales of the two instruments, which, going over immoveable scales of the same sort, shews their difference of height. When this difference is no longer conformable to the indication of the Thermometer, it is easily rectified by turning small pegs, on which are twisted the thread of silk-grass which serves for the suspension of the scales. The irregularity of which I have been speaking consists in this, that when the heat, after having varied, returns to the same point of the quicksilver Thermometer, the metallic Thermometer does not return to it exactly, but varies nearly in the following manner. During the summer the metallic Thermometer gains constantly on the other; I mean, that amidst its variations, it always preserves a small part of the lengthening, which echelles mobiles des deux instrumens, et qui, passant sur des echelles immobiles semblables, fait voir ainsi leur difference de hauteur. Si cette difference cesse d'etre conforme a l'indication du Thermometre, on la rectifie aisement, en tournant de petites chevilles sur lesquelles s'enveloppent les fils de pite qui servent a la suspension des echelles. L'irregularite dont il s'agit consiste en ce que, lorsque la chaleur, apres avoir varie, revient au meme point sur le Thermometre de mercure, le Thermometre metallique n'y revient pas toujours exactement; et la marche des irregularites est celle-ci: en Ete, le thermometre metallique gagne de plus en plus sur l'autre; c'est a dire que, dans ses variations, il conserve toujours quelque petite partie de l'allonge440 Mr. DE LUC on which is at that time its ordinary state. In winter, on the contrary, it becomes insensibly a little too short. The other metallic Thermometer I have mentioned is made of lead. I made it seven or eight and twenty years ago, for an instrument which is more agreeable than useful, on account of its irregularity. A rod of lead, communicating by a thread of silk-grass, with a small pulley fixed to the same axis with a greater one, conducts, by means of another pulley, a needle through whose axis, which is bored, passes another axis which carries the needle of a pulley Barometer. Thus this instrument marks the heat and weight of the air upon two concentric circles, by means of two needles turning upon the same center, as in clocks; besides which, the needle of the Thermometer points out upon a third circle the correction for the heat, to be made on l'allongement qui fait alors son etat ordinaire: en hiver au contraire, il devient insensiblement un peu trop court. L'autre Thermometre metallique dont j'ai parle, est de plomb. Je le fis il y a 27 ou 28 ans pour une machine plus agreable qu'utile a cause de son irregularite. Une branche de plomb, communiquant aussi par un fil de pite avec une petite poulie, mise sur un meme axe avec une plus grande, conduit, par une autre poulie et au moyen d'un contrepoids, une aiguille, dont l'axe perce, laisse passer celui qui porte l'aiguille d'un Barometre a poulie. Ainsi cet instrument marque sur deux cercles concentriques la chaleur et le poids de l'air, par deux aiguilles tournant sur un meme centre, comme dans les pendules; et celle du Thermometre indique de plus sur un troisieme cercle, la Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 441 on the Barometer, which at that time I had already determined. The irregularities of this last metallic Thermometer are of the same nature, but much more considerable than those of the other: this had already made me suspect, that they proceeded from the metal itself, though the wood, of which the frame was made, appeared a little suspicious on account of the humidity. I met with the same effects in my last experiments, when the frame no longer interfered; and the irregularity shewed itself in this manner. Whenever I had observed the point at which my Microscope pointed upon the lamella of brass, which was suspended, with the rod of glass, in water at the temperature of the air, and then put warm water in the room of this; if I cooled the water la correction a faire pour la chaleur sur le Barometre, que j'avois deja determinee alors. Les irregularites de ce dernier Thermometre metallique, qui sont de meme nature que celles de l'autre, sont encore beaucoup plus grandes; ce qui m'avoit deja fait soupconner qu'elles procedoient du metal meme; quoique la monture, qui est de bois dans les deux machines, me fut un peu suspecte a cause de l'humidite. Dans mes dernieres experiences j'ai eprouve les memes effets; et ici la monture n'etoit plus une raison de doute. Voici comment cette irregularite se manifestoit. Quand j'avois observe le point ou mon Microscope visoit sur la lame de leton suspendue avec la branche de verre dans l'eau a la temperature de l'air, et que je substituois a cette eau de l'eau chaude; si je refroidissois l'eau peu a peu, V O L. LXVIII. G g g je 442 Mr. DE LUC on water by degrees, I found that the lamella of brass preserved a little of its lengthening. I did not suspect the rod of glass, because the elasticity of this substance is physically perfect, and that this quality seems to me to be proper to bring back bodies to the same state, whenever the causes, of what nature soever they be, which have drawn them from it, cease: and I had soon after direct evidence of the irregularity not proceeding from the glass. It was easy for me to find the proportion of the lengths of the brass and the glass, which, changing suddenly the water, which had the same temperature as the air, for warm water, produced no difference in the heighth of the point upon which the Microscope pointed: which shewed that the two substances had been equally expanded in contrary directions; but when I afterwards gradually je trouvois que la lame de leton conservoit un peu de son allongement. Je ne suspectois pas la branche de verre; vu que l'elasticite de cette matiere est physiquement parfaite, et que cette qualite me paroit propre a ramener les corps au meme etat, quand les causes, quelles qu'elles soyent, qui les en ont tires, viennent a cesser: et j'eus lieu ensuite de reconnoitre immediatement que l'irregularite ne venoit pas du verre. Il me fut aise de trouver la proportion des longueurs du leton et du verre par laquelle, changeant tout a coup l'eau qui etoit a la temperature de l'air, en de l'eau chaude, il ne se trouvoit aucune difference dans la hauteur du point sur lequel le Microscope visoit: ce qui montroit que les expansions des deux matieres en sens contraires avoient ete egales. Mais en diminuant ensuite par degres la 2 chaleur Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 443 gradually diminished the heat of the water, this point rose little by little; that is to say, the lamella of brass preserved a part of its lengthening, whilst the rod of glass contracted itself to the same point at which it was at the beginning of the experiments. After a number of similar trials, which always ended in the same manner, I went to work another way: when no change had been produced in the heighth of the point, by the sudden change of water of the same temperature as the air into warm water, I immediately put, in the place of that warm water, water of the same temperature as the air, and in that case the point did not change neither. It will not be useless to mention here, that I had in my bottle a syphon with a cock, by which I drew out the water without motion; and that I poured it in chaleur de l'eau, ce point s'elevoit peu a peu; c'est a dire que la lame de leton conservoit une partie de son allongement, tandis que la branche de verre se contractoit au meme point ou clle l'etoit au commencement de l'experience. Apres nombre de tentatives de meme espece, dont les resultats surent toujours semblables, je procedai d'une autre maniere. Lorsque, par le changement subit de l'eau qui etoit a la temperature de l'air, en eau chaude, il ne s'etoit fait aucun changement dans la hauteur du point, je substituois, subitement aussi, a cette eau chaude, de l'eau a la temperature de l'air; et alors le point ne changeoit pas non plus. Il ne sera pas inutile de dire ici, que j'avois un syphon a robinet dans ma bouteille, par lequel je retirois l'eau sans mouvement; et que je l'y versois au travers G g g 2 d'un 444 Mr. DE LUC on in through a long tunnel, by which means every thing remained quiet during the time of the experiment. By comparing these two observations together, it should seem, that when the igneous fluid is agitated for some time, in substances, the particles of which have not that strong tendency towards each other which constitutes elasticity, it produces some change in the arrangement of these particles, which hinders the compound from resuming the same bulk upon the return of the same degree of heat; a change which there is not time to bring about, when the variations are sudden, if there be at least some elasticity in the matter. In support of this we already know, that glass, the most elastic of known substances, is not subject to this irregularity, as I shall soon shew; that brass, which is much less elastic, is sensibly affected by it; and that lead, the d'un entonnoir a long tuyau. Ainsi tout restoit tranquille pendant l'experience. Ces deux observations comparees semblent donc indiquer, que lorsque le fluide igne s'agite pendant quelque tems dans les matieres dont les particules n'ont pas entr'elles cette forte tendance qui fait l'elasticite, il produit dans l'arrangement de ces particules quelque changement, qui empeche les composes de reprendre exactement le meme volume quand le meme degre de chaleur revient: changement qui n'a pas le tems de s'effectuer, lorsque les variations sont subites, s'il y a du moins quelque elasticite dans la matiere. Nous avons deja pour sondement de cette idee, que le verre, la plus elastique des matieres connues, n'est pas sujet a cette irregularite, comme je le montrerai bientot; que le leton, bien moins eelastique, l'a sensiblement; et que le plomb, le Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 445 the least elastic of all metals, is still more subject to it than brass, as I have experienced in my Thermometer made of it. Besides, this seems to have an absolute dependance upon that general law, that the less elasticity substances have, the less time is necessary to make them take the bent one means to give them: lead takes it instantaneously; glass never takes it at all. A ball of the crumb of bread, which one so easily fashions in one's fingers, preserves its form when it is thrown with violence against a plain surface; because the fluid which constitutes its elasticity has not time to escape. Wood, brass, and steel, resist, but in the end give way. This effect is probably the same with that which the humor produces in the bodies it penetrates, which by degrees likewise take the habit of their state; and this so much the more as le moins elastique de tous les metaux, y est encore beaucoup plus sujet que le leton, comme je l'ai vu dans mon Thermometre fait de cette matiere. D'ailleurs cela me paroit rentrer absolument dans ce phenomene fi general; que moins les matieres ont d'elasticite, moins il faut de tems pour leur faire contracter le plis qu'on leur donne: le plomb le prend dans l'instant; le verre ne le prend jamais; une balle de mie de pain, qu'on faconne si aisement entre ses doigts, conserve sa forme en bondissant, quand on la jette avec violence contre une surface unie, parce que le fluide qui fait son elasticite n'a pas le tems de s'echapper; le bois, le leton, l'acier, resistent, mais enfin se rendent. Cet effet est probablement le meme que celui que produit l'humor dans les corps qu'elle penetre, auxquels nous voyons aussi prendre peu a peu l'habitude de leur etat, et d'autant plus 7 qu'ils 446 Mr. DE LUC on as they are less elastic: this is what made me chuse to make my Hygrometer of ivory, as I have already said in my paper on that subject. If this conjecture upon the effects of heat in bodies which have little elasticity be grounded, as I think it is, clocks would gain some more regularity, if in the composition of their pendulum, glass were used instead of steel, and bell-metal instead of brass; for these two substances being the most elastic we are acquainted with, by uniting them we should be much surer of preserving the same length of the pendulum in the variations of the heat. There would be another small advantage in making use of these substances, which is, that bell or mirrour metal, having the same expansibility as brass, as Mr. SMEATON has demonstrated by his experiments, and glass having qu'ils sont moins elastiques. C'est ce qui m'a fait choisir l'yvoire pour l'Hygrometre, comme je l'ai dit dans mon memoire sur cet instrument. Si cette conjecture sur les effets de la chaleur dans les corps peu elastiques, est fondee, comme elle me paroit l'etre, il y auroit quelque chose a gagner pour la regularite des pendules, a employer le verre au lieu de l'acier, et le metal de cloche en place du leton, dans la composition de la verge de leur pendule. Car ces deux matieres etant les plus elastiques que nous connoissions, nous serions bien plus surs de conserver par leur combinaison, une meme longueur au pendule dans les variations de la chaleur. On auroit encore ce petit avantage en employant ces matieres, que le metal de cloche ou celui des miroirs ayant la meme expansibilite que le leton, comme Mr. SMEATON l'a trouve par ses experiences, et le verre en ayant moins que l'acier, Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 447 having less than steel, the grid-iron would be shorter or more simple. The proportion of the dilatations of brass and steel, being only as five to three, it is impossible to compensate the dilatation of the steel by a single rod of brass; for as there must be a second rod of steel to go downwards again, there will be two lengths of steel for one of brass, for which a proportion in the dilatation of six to three, or two to one, would not even suffice. One is therefore obliged to have a second rod of brass, which goes upwards, by which means the grid-iron comes to be composed of nine rods, the two ascending pairs of which are brass. Thus then the lens, which is always very heavy, is born by the top of one of the pairs of the rods, which, through the medium of a pair of rods of steel, are themselves supported on the top of the other pair of the rods of l'acier, on auroit une grille moins longue ou plus simple. Le rapport des dilatations du leton et de l'acier etant seulement de 5 a 3, il est impossible de compenser la dilatation de l'acier par un seul retour du leton de bas en haut. Car comme il faut ensuite une autre branche d'acier qui redescende pour porter la lentille, on a deux longueurs d'acier pour une de leton; a quoi un rapport des dilatations de 6 a 3 ou 2 a 1 ne pourroit pas meme suffire; je ne m'arreterai pas a le montrer. On est donc oblige de faire remonter une seconde fois le leton; et c'est par cette raison que la grille est composee de 9 branches, dont 2 paires montantes sont de leton. Ainsi la lentille, qui est toujours d'un assezgrand poids, est portee par le haut de l'une des paires, qui, elle meme, par l'entremise d'une paire de branches d'acier, pese sur le haut de l'autre paire de branches de leton. 448 Mr. DE LUC on of brass. Now there must be some flexion in these rods of brass during the oscillations of the pendulum, in which the lens acquires a small centrifugal force from the end of one vibration to the other, and thus weighs differently upon the rods. Besides, this necessity of turning back twice, increases the total length of the rods, and consequently all the causes of irregularity. On the contrary, by making use of bell-metal and glass, the dilatations of which are as seven to three a single pair of rods of the former, will be sufficient to compensate the dilatations of the glass rods; consequently the gridiron may either be shorter, or made up only of five rods, a pair of glass ones descending on the outside, a pair of bell-metal ones ascending on the inside, and a glass rod descending at the center, and carrying the lens. This leton. Or il doit y avoir quelque flexion dans ces branches de leton par les oscillations du pendule; la lentille acquerant un peu de force centrifuge d'une extremite a l'autre de chaque excursion, et pesant ainsi differemment sur les branches. D'ailleurs cette necessite de retourner deux fois en arriere, augmente la longueur totale des branches, et par consequent elle augmnete toutes les causes d'irregularite. Aulieu qu'en employant le metal de cloche et le verre, dont les dilatations sont comme 7 a 3, une seule paire de branches du premier, suffira pour compenser la dilatation des branches de verre. La grille pourra donc etre ou plus courte, ou composee seulement de 5 branches: une paire de verre descendantes a l'exterieur, une paire de metal de cloche montantes en dedans, et une branche de verre descendante au centre pour porter la lentille. Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 449 This diminution of the total length of the rods, and that of the flexion, must contribute to increase the regularity of the pendulum, indepeendently of the greater regularity of the expansion of the substances themselves. As I have begun this digression upon an object so essential to clock-making, I shall observe farther, that the experiments I am speaking of are applicable to it in another respect, which seems to me of some importance. Substances of the same denomination are not homogeneous enough for us to conclude, that what has been found in the one, with respect to their very delicate properties, will always be exactly the same in the other: and that, for instance, the lengthening of a certain rod of brass by heat, is an indication that every rod of brass will have precisely the same lengthening. My opinion therefore tille. Cette diminution de longueur totale des branches, et celle de la flexion, ne peuvent qu' augmenter la regularite du pendule, independamment de la plus grande regularite de l'expansion des matieres memes. Puisque j'ai commence une digression sur cet objet essentiel a l'horlogerie, je serai encore remarquer ici, que les experiences dont je parle lui sont applicables a un autre egard qui me paroit de quelque importance. Les matieres qui portent le meme nom, ne sont pas assez homogenes, pour que dans leurs proprietes delicates nous puissions conclure, de ce que nous avons trouve dans une, qu'il en sera exactement de meme de toutes celles qui ont la meme denomination; et qu'ainsi par exemple, l'allongement d'une certaine branche de leton par la chaleur, nous indique l'allongement de tout leton par cette cause. Je crois V O L. LXVIII. H h h donc 450 Mr. DE LUC on therefore is, that it would be of some advantage, if, upon every pendulum intendeed for very delicate observations, there were made the experiment of the comparative lengthening of the substances which compose it; marking the center of oscillation upon the lens by the known methods, and pointing a Microscope upon this center whilst the heat is made to vary. By using for these pendulums glass and bell-metal, the first of which is not at all affected by water, and the other very little (which little might even be prevented by varnishing it) it would be easy to observe the effects of the heat upon them in water, by means of a tin vessel, having a glass facing the center of oscillation. By pouring water of different temperatures into this vessel, whilst the Microscope remains pointed to that center, one would discover, in the surest and shortest manner, that combination donc qu'on obtiendroit plus d'exactitude si l'on faisoit immediatement sur chaque pendule destine a des observations delicates, l'experience de l'allongement comparatif des matieres qui le composent, en marquant sur la lentille, par les methodes connues, le centre d'oscillation, et pointant un Microscope sur ce centre, tandis qu'on seroit varier la chaleur. En employant a ces pendules le verre et le metal de cloche, dont le premier n'est point affecte par l'eau, et l'autre l'est tres peu, et pourroit meme etre vernisse, il seroit aise encore d'y observer les effets de la chaleur dans l'eau, au moyen d'une caisse de fer blanc, qui auroit une glace vis a vis du centre d'oscillation. En y versant de l'eau a diverses temperatures tandis que le Microscope seroit pointe sur ce centre, on trouveroit de la maniere la plus sure et la plus 7 courte Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 451 nation of the two substances, which would preserve the same length to the pendulum between two determined temperatures. To make this still easier, it would be possible to construct the grid-iron in such a manner as that its corrective rods being fixed by screws, the proportions of their lengths might be changed, till the bell-metal perfectly compensate for the lengthening of the glass between the two fixed temperatures, of which I shall speak hereafter. For there would be nothing to correct by this method, but the difference of expansibilities of the substances employed, comparatively with the mean expansibility of substances of the same denomination, which would have been first discovered by experiments made for that purpose. I shall resume hereafter this correction of the pendulum, courte, la combinaison des deux matieres qui conserveroit sensiblement au pendule, une meme longueur dans des variations determinees de temperature. Pour rendre ce moyen plus commode, on pourroit aisement construire la grille de maniere, que ses branches correctives etant retenues dans leurs traverses par des vis, on put changer les rapports de leurs longueurs, jusqu'a ce que le metal de cloche compensat parfaitement l'allongement du verre entre les deux temperatures fixees, dont je parlerai ci-apres. Car on n'auroit a corriger par cette methode, que les differences d'expansibilite des matieres employees, comparativement a l'expansibilite moyenne des matieres de meme nom, qu'on auroit trouvee premierement par des experiences faites a ce dessein. Je reviendrai dans la suite H h h 2 a cette 452 Mr. DE LUC on dulum, in order to consider it in a point of view still more important. I now return to the comparative dilatations of glass and brass; I mean to the experiments which I made in order to determine at what heighth of the lamella of brass the point was, which should remain unmoved by the variations of heat. These experiments, notwithstanding all my pains, turned our surprizingly irregular; and it was necessary to make a great number of them, to arrive at any degree of probability. In the first place, the duration of the operations made the brass take, what I have named, the habit of its state, which prevented it from returning exactly to that in which it was at the same degree of heat: a cette correction du pendule, pour la considerer sous une face plus importante encore. Je reviens aux dilatations comparatives du verre et du leton; c'est a dire a ces experiences par lesquelles je cherchois a determiner a quelle hauteur sur la lame de leton se trouveroit le point qui resteroit immobile par les variations de la chaleur. Malgre tous les soins que je pris, ces experiences se trouverent d'une irregularite surprenante; et il fallut en faire un bien grand nombre pour arriver a des resultats un peu probables. D'abord, la longueur des operations faisoit toujours prendre au leton ce que j'ai appelle l'habitude de son etat; ce qui l'empechoit de revenir exactement a celui ou il etoit auparavant par le meme degre de chaleur. Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 453 heat(d): the quicker, however, the returns, the more regular they were; it will be therefore only from such as were quick that I shall hereafter deduce my conclusions. Another difficulty I met with in my experiments arose from the difference of the effect of the different changes of the temperature. When I suddenly changed the temperature of the water from 10~ to 70~ of the Thermometer to which I have given the name of common in my work upon the Modifications of the Atmosphere (which answer to 54~1/2 and 1891/2 of FAHRENHEIT) a somewhat less length of brass was wanted to compensate the dilatation of the glass, than when I increased the heat less; as, (d) Since the writing of this I have been told, that the same phenomenon is observed in the co recting Thermometer of watches; and that it produces irregularities which are in an increasing progression. for leur (d). Quand ces retours etoient prompts ils etoient plus reguliers. Ce ne sera donc que de celles de mes observations qui furent promptes, que je tirerai ci-apres les resultats probables. Un autre embarras que j'eprouvai dans ces experiences, provint de la difference d'effet des changemens differens de temperature. Quand je portois tout a coup la temperature de mon eau de 10~ a 70~ du Thermometre que j'ai appelle commum dans mon ouvrage sur les Modifications de l'Atmosphere, et qui correspondent a 54~1/2 et 189~1/2 de FAHRENHEIT, il me failloit une longueur un peu moindre de leton pour compenser la dilatation du verre, que lorsque j'augmentois moins la (d) J'ai appris depuis que j'ai ecrit ceci, qu'on remarque ce phenomene dans les Thermometres correcteurs des montres, et qu'il y cause des irregularites croissantes. chaleur, 454 Mr. DE LUC on for instance, from 10~ to 40~, to which, however, I limited myself for a reason I will soon mention. The more I approached the heat of boiling water in warming the water in my experiment, the nearer I came to the proportion found by Mr. SMEATON between the lengthenings of these two bodies by heat; which he has fixed between glass and brass wires (which answers to my milled brass) as 100 to 232. I had a point upon my lamella of brass which answered to this proportion; that is, the lengths of the brass and glass were at that point in an inverse ratio of these numbers; and this point did not change sensibly when, instead of water of 10~, I substituted water which I poured boiling into my bottle, and which brought the Thermometer to 74~ or 76~. But when I only encreased the heat to 40~, this length of brass chaleur, comme par exemple de 10~ a 40~, a quoi je me bornai par la raison que j'indiquerai. Plus j'approchois de la chaleur de l'eau bouillante en echaussant mon eau, plus je me rapprochois du rapport qu'a trouve Mr. SMEATON entre les allongemens de ces deux corps par la chaleur, qu'il a fixe, entre le verre et du leton tire a la filiere (qui repond a mon leton lamine) comme 100 a 232. J'avois un point sur ma lame de leton, qui correspondoit a ce rapport; c'est a dire que les longueurs du leton et du verre y etoient en raison inverse de ces nombres; et ce point ne changeoit pas sensiblement de hauteur, quand je substituois a l'eau de 10~, de l'eau que je versois bouillante dans ma bouteille, et qui portoit le Thermometre a 74~ ou 76~. Mais lorsque je n'augmentois la chaleur que jusqu'a 40~, cette Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 455 brass was not sufficient; the point insensibly sunk: I speak of the greatest number of experiments, for there were some contrary ones. These uncertainties recalled my attention to the particular object on account of which I had undertaken my experiments; I mean my new Hygrometer, on which, in order to compensate the effect of heat upon glass, it was necessary to produce this compensation in the natural variations of the temperature of the air. I therefore confined myself within these limits; not indeed precisely within the same temperatures, which seemed too difficult, though it would have been better; but between temperatures nearly equally different. I will not give a minute account of these experiments; be it sufficient to say, that from the difference of temperature cette longueur de leton ne sussisoit pas; le point baissoit sensiblement. Je parle du plus grand nombre des experiences; car il y en eut quelquefois de contraires. Voyant ces incertitudes, je tournai mon attention sur l'objet particulier pourlequel j'avois entrepris ces experiences; c'est-a-dire mon nouvel Hygrometre, ou, pour compenser l'effet de la chaleur sur le verre, je n'avois besoin de produire cette compensation que dans les variations naturelles de la temperature de l'air. Je me renfermai donc dans cet espace; non precisement entre les memes temperatures, ce qui me parut trop difficile, quoique c'eut ete le mieux; mais entre des temperatures a peu pres egalement differentes. Je ne rendrai pas compte ici du detail de ces experiences; il suffira de dire, que par la difference de temperature entre 10~ et 40~ de mon Thermometre, le rapport 456 Mr. DE LUC on rature between 10~ and 40~ of my Thermometer, the mean proportions of the dilatations of the brass and glass were as 21 to 10; consequently, I had need of a length of brass which should be to that of the glass in my Hygrometer as 10 to 21, in order to make up for the dilatability of its frame; whereas it needed to have been from 10 to 23 in the transition from water in ice to boiling water. I do not give this latter proportion as being equally to be depended upon as the other; but it is sufficient that there be really a difference between the two, to ground the general reflexions I shall make, after having previously noticed another difference of the same kind which I have found by means of this Pyrometer. But before I mention these new experiments, I will bestow another moment upon those which relate to the comparapport moyen des dilatations du leton et du verre fut comme 21 a 10; et que par consequent j'avois besoin d'une longueur de leton qui fut a celle du verre dans mon Hygrometre, comme 10 a 21, pour compenser la dilatabilite de sa monture; au lieu qu'il l'auroit fallu de 10 a 23 dans le passage de l'eau dans la glace a l'eau bouillante. Je ne donne pas ce dernier rapport comme aussi sur que l'autre; mais il suffit qu'il y ait certainement une difference entre les deux, pour fonder les reflexions generales aux quelles je viendrai, apres avoir explique une autre difference du meme genre que j'ai trouvee au moyen de ce Pyrometre. Mais avant que de rapporter ces nouvelles experiences, je m'arreterai encore un moment sur celles qui regardent les expansibilites comparatives, ou les rapport entre Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 457 comparative expansibilities, or the proportion there is between the expansibilities of bodies, which seem to me by this method to be reduced to an operation as simple as it is conclusive. First, with respect to the frame of my Pyrometer, however rude it be, I have hitherto discovered no defect in it. A point of suspension of the rods which preserves throughout the experiment its relative position to the Microscope, is the easiest thing to obtain by means of this deal frame, which is not sensibly affected by the small changes in the air, and is exposed to no other variation: and this is a great point gained when it is considered, that hitherto frames had a sensible effect upon the indications of the Pyrometers; and that all that could be done, was to endeavour to obviate this influence. Again, entre les expansibilities des corps, qui me paroissent reduites par cette route a une operation aussi simple que sure. D'abord quant a la monture de mon Pyrometre, quelque grossiere qu'elle soit, je n'y ai trouve jusqu'a present aucun defaut. Un point de suspension des branches, qui conserve pendant l'experience sa position relative a celle du Microscope, est la chose la plus aisee a obtenir par cette monture de sapin; les petits changemens de l'air ne l'affectant point sensiblement, et n'etant exposee a aucune autre cause de variation. Or c'est la un grand point d'obtenu, quand on considere que jusqu' ici les montures influoient toujours essentiellement sur les indications des Pyrometres, et que tout ce qu'on pouvoit faire, etoit de chercher a en corriger les effets. VOL. LXVIII. I i i Ensuite, 458 Mr. DE LUC on Again, measurement will itself always be an occasion of error more or less considerable in physics, because our Micrometers are all imperfect. It is true, indeed, that we are daily improving them, and with great reason, since we are obliged to measure almost every where; but it is not less true, that, not to be obliged to measure, is a great additional security. Now by this method there is no necessity for measuring: all one wants is, to find a point upon the rods of different substances thus suspended, which neither rises nor falls when the temperature of the water is changed; and it is sufficient for this purpose, that the Microscope do not vary during the observation. As to the measure of the lengths of the rods, whose expansions compensate each other at this point, all possible errors in this respect are hitherto of no import. We Ensuite, mesurer, sera toujours en physique une occation d'erreurs plus ou moins grande; parceque nos Micrometres sont tous imparfaits. On les perfectionne tous les jours d'avantage; et il le faut bien, puisque nous sommes obliges de mesurer presque partout; mais il n'en est pas moins vrai, qu'etre dispense de mesurer est une grande surete de plus. Or on l'est totalement par cette methode. Trouver sur l'une des branches de matieres differentes ainsi suspendues, un point qui ne s'eleve ni ne s'abaisse en changeant la temperature de l'eau, est tout ce dont on a besoin; et il suffit pour cela que le Microscope ne varie pas tandis qu'on observe. Quant a la mesure de la longueur des branches dont les expansions se compensent a ce point, c'est un objet sur lequel les erreurs possibles ne sont encore d'au5 cune Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 459 We are very far from being able to perceive, in the quantities of expansions, those differences which might arise from the imperfection of this measure. One may take therefore a rod of some substance, glass for instance, and put at the end of it a convenient clasp for holding other rods of different substances: thus, by separately comparing their expansions with that of the rod of glass, by the position of the immoveable point, one will obtain the proportion of their expansibility with that of glass, and consequently with each other. Nor may solids only be subjected to these experiments, but fluids also: for by enclosing them in a cylindrical tube of glass, the expansibility of which is known, they will be as rods, which may be thus submitted to the same expericune consequence. Nous sommes bien loin de pouvoir reconnoitre dans les quantities des expansions, les differences qui pourroient resulter de l'imperfection de cette mesure. On pourra donc avoir une branche d'une certaine matiere, de verre par exemple, a l'un des bouts de laquelle on aura ajuste une pince commode, pour y fixer d'autres branches de diverses matieres: et comparant anisi separement leur expansion avec celle de la branche de verre, par la position du point immobile, on aura les rapports de leur expansibilite avec celle du verre, et par consequent entre clles. Ce ne sera pas seulement les solides qu'on pourra soumettre a ces experiences; mais les sluides. Car en les renfermant dans un tuyau de verre cylindrique, dont l'expansibilite soit connue, on en fera comme des branches, qu'on pourra ainsi I i i 2 soumettre 460 Mr. DE LUC on experiments, by means of a small opaque body floating at the top of them, and to which the Microscope may be pointed. I do not, however, insist upon this application of the machine; since the expansion of liquids may be observed in vases, the dimensions of which are known, by joining cylindrical tubes to them, which render their expansions much more sensible. I shall only observe, that from the knowledge of the dilatability of the tube, one should not reduce its capacity to what it would be if the glass did not dilate itself, as is done with respect to vases in order to know the true change in the volume of liquids contained in them; but that, on the contrary, we should here suppose the dilatation of glass greater than it is, and as it would be if it had the same expansibility as the liquid; and then diminish according to that proportion soumettre aux memes experiences, en faisant flotter un petit corps opaque a leur surface, pour y pointer le Microscope. Cependant je n'insiste pas sur cette application de la machine; parceque les expansions des liquides peuvent etre observees dans des vases dont on connoit la capacite, en y joignant des tubes cylindriques; ce qui rend leur expansion beaucoup plus sensible. Je remarquerai donc seulement; qu'il ne faudroit pas, d'apres la connoissance de la dilatabilite de la matiere du tuyau, reduire par le calcul sa capacite, a ce qu'elle seroit si le verre ne se dilatoit point, comme on le fait a l'egard des vases pour connoitre le changement reel du volume des liquides qu'ils contiennent; mais qu'au contraire il faudroit ici supposer cette capacite plus grande, en la portant a ce qu'elle seroit, si le verre avoit la meme expansibilite que le liquide; et diminuer dans cette proportion l'allongement Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 461 portion the observed lengthening of the latter: for in comparing the expansion of a fluid with that of a solid, we must take notice, that we measure the change of bulk of the latter, according to one of its three dimensions only, for which reason the fluid must be brought to the same predicament. Air might also be subjected to these experiments by enclosing it in a glass tube by means of a small column of quicksilver. But I cannot help being of opinion, that all experiments made on air enclosed, will be found inaccurate, when applied to the air in general. The expansibility of air by heat varies exceedingly, according to its greater or less degree of humidity; and I know from experience, how difficult it is to enclose in a tube, air of a determinate dryness: but if it is more humid than its mean l'allongement observe de celui-ci. Car pour comparer l'expansion d'un fluide a celle d'un solide, il faut avoir egard a ce que nous ne mesurons le changement de volume de ces derniers que suivant une seule de leurs trois dimensions, et que par consequent il faut reduire le fluide au meme cas. On pourroit aussi soumettre l'air a ces memes experiences, en le renfermant dans le tube de verre par une petite colonne de mercure. Mais je ne puis m'empecher de croire que les experiences sur l'air renserme seront roujours inexactes quand on les appliquera a l'air en general. L'expansibilite de l'air par la chaleur varie beaucoup, suivant qu'il est plus ou moins humide; et je sais par experience, qu'il est bien difficile de renfermer dans un tube, de l'air d'une secheresse determinee. 462 Mr. DE LUC on mean state in the atmosphere, its expansibility by heat will be greater. It is not impossible that this may be the reason why Colonel ROY and Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURG found a greater expansibility in the air enclosed in their Manometers than what I deduced from my observations in the open air. The bare difference there is between the air of London and that of the mountains of Switzerland may be sufficient to account for this effect. I believe, indeed, that the differences of humidity will be causes of error in the Barometrical measures of heights, so long as these differences shall not enter into the formulae; and it was this consideration which first led me to think of an Hygrometer(e). (e) I shall return to this object, and treat it more particularly, in a paper upon Refractions, of which I shall speak hereafter. As determinee. Or s'il est plus humide que son etat moyen dans l'atmosphere, son expansibilite par la chaleur sera plus grande. Il n'est pas impossible que ce ne soit la la raison pour laquelle Mr le Col. ROY et Mr le Chev. SHUCKBURGH ont trouve a l'air renferme dans leurs Manometres, une expansibilite plus grande que celle que j'ai deduite de mes observations dans l'air libre; la difference peut-etre de l'air de Londres et de celui qui environne les montagnes de la Suisse, peut produire cet effet: je crois meme que les differences d'humidite seront des causes d'ecarts dans les mesures Barometriques des hauteurs, tant qu'on ne pourra pas faire entrer ces differences dans les formules: c'est le premier motif. qui m'a fait chercher un Hygrometre (e). (e) Je reviendrai a cet objet pour le traiter plus particulierement, dans un memoire sur les Refractions lont je parlerai ci-apres. Quant Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 463 As to the differences of the conclusions drawn from these gentlemen's experiments and mine made in the open air, though they be conformable to the above-mentioned difference, they may yet arise from another cause. I always observed the temperature of the air with my Thermometer in open air, and in the Sun when it shone; whereas they observed in the shade. As often then as I found the air warmer in the Sun, than I should have found it in the shade, which was almost always the case, especially in the plain, I did not stand in need of as great a correctioon as those gentlemen for each degree of the Thermometer; since in the same circumstances the degrees were more numerous in my observations than in theirs, and consequently, with a less correction for each degree, my whole correction was equal to theirs. I will add, that I did Quant aux differences des resultats des experiences de ces Messieurs et des miennes dans l'air libre, quoique conformes a la difference precedente, elles pourroient bien venir d'une autre cause. J'observois toujours la temperature de l'air avec mon Thermometre a boule isolee, en plein air, et au soleil quand il luisoit; au lieu qu'ils l'observoient a l'ombre, Si donc je trouvois l'air plus chaud au soleil, que je ne l'aurois trouve a l'ombre, ce qui etoit presque toujours le cas, furtout a la plaine, je n'avois pas besoin d'une si grande correction que ces Messieurs pour chaque degre du Thermometre, puisqu'ils etoient plus nombreux dans mes observations que dans les leurs par les memes circonstances; et qu'ainsi, avec une moindre correction pour chaque degre, j'avois une correction totale aussi grande. J'ajouterai, que je n'ai pas trouve que les rayons directs du soleil 464 Mr. DE LUC on did not find that the direct rays of the Sun heated irregularly the glass of the ball of a Thermometer when clean, which may be easily seen by looking at the experiment mentioned in p. 56, 57. of the second volume of my work: consequently, when these direct rays act upon the air, it is a cause of heat which should not be neglected. I am still therefore of opinion, that it is better to observe the Thermometer in the Sun than in the shade; and that the correction for the heat of the air may stand such as this method of observing requires it. There are always acting causes enough in the column of air weighing upon the inferior Barometer;which cannot be known in the superior station, for us not to neglect any of the ordinary causes which may be perceived. It soleil echauffassent irregulierement le verre bien net de la boule d'un Thermometre; ce qu'on pourra voir aisement par l'experience rapportee aux p. 56 et 57 du second volume de mon ouvrage: et ainsi quand ces rayonds directs agissent sur l'air, c'est une cause de chaleur qui ne me semble pas devoir etre negligee. Je crois donc toujours qu'il convient mieux d'observer le Thermometre au soleil qu'a l'ombre, et de laisser la correction pour la chaleur de l'air proportionnee a cette methode. Il reste toujours assez de causes agissantes dans la colonne d'air qui pese immediatement sur le Barometre inferieur, qu'on ne peut pas connoitre a la station superieure, pour qu'on ne doive negliger aucune des causes communes qui sont saisissables. 1 Il Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 465 It is therefore probable, that had I observed in the same places as these gentlemen with my Barometer, exposing at the same time my Thermometer to the Sun, I should have found the real height as well as they, without changing my rule; which already appears, I think, from my having derived it from experiments made in the same place where Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH has made his principle observations. I will only add, that if, in the different opportunities I have had of trying my rule since it is fixed, it had constantly given me the heights too small, as those gentlemen have found it, even considering what is above stated, I should have suspected with Colonel ROY, that I ought not to have taken out from the observations from which I have concluded my rule, those which I made Il est donc assez probable, que si j'avois observe dans les memes lieux que ces Messieurs avec mon Barometre, et en exposant mon Thermometre au soleil, j'aurois trouve comme eux les hauteurs reelles, sans changer ma regle: et c'est ce qui paroit deja, ce me semble, de ce que je l'ai conclue d'experiences faites dans le meme lieu ou Mr le Chev. SHUCKBURCH a fait ses principales observations. J'ajouterai seulement, que si dans les diverses occassions que j'ai cues d'eprouver cette regle depuis qu'elle est fixee, elle m'avoit donne constamment les hauteurs un peu trop petites, comme il resulteroit des experiences de ces Messieurs, meme en ayant egard aux considerations ci-dessus, j'aurois soupconne alors avec Mr le Col. ROY, que je n'aurois pas du retrancher du nombre des observations dont j'ai tire ma regle, celles que j'avois faites au lever du soleil, qui toutes donnent VOL. LXVIII. K k k les 466 Mr. DE LUC on made at Sun-rise; all which, according to this rule, give the heights too small. For it would then appear, that it is owing to accident alone that the exceptions of this kind happen to be at that precise time of day; that they are deviations which are still to be expected, till more circumstances have been taken notice of in the observations, and new equations are introduced in the formula; and that having admitted the exceptions on the contrary side, I ought to have lest those in the bulk of my observations, before I deduced the mean laws from them, which would have brought me nigher to the conclusions drawn from Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH'S and Colonel ROY'S observations. The late Mr. DE LA CONDAMINE, one of those rare men who take an interest in the labours of their friends, was already of this opinion; and I should have made use of it, had not my tables been already calculated. However, les hauteurs trop petites suivant cette regle. Car il paroitroit en ce cas, que ce n'est qu' accidentellement que les exceptions dans ce sens la se rencontrent a ce moment du jour; que ce sont des ecarts auxquels on doit encore s'attendre, jusqu'a ce qu'on ait embrasse plus de circonstances dans les observations, et de nouvelles equations dans la formule; et qu'ayant admis les exceptions contraires, je devois laisser celles la dans l'ensemble de mes observations, avant d'en deduire les loix moyennes: ce qui m'auroit rapproche d'avantage des resultats des observations de Mr le Col. ROY et de Mr le Chev. SHUCKBURGH. Feu Mr DE LA CONDAMINE, l'un de ces hommes rares qui savent s'interesser aux travaux de leurs amis, m'avoit deja fait faire cette reflexion; et j'y aurois eu Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 467 ever, I did not find afterwards any necessity for it by my own observations. Here then is a new subject of investigation, and consequently those gentlemen's observations are exceedingly interesting, since they will engage natural philosophers not to give up this object till it is entirely cleared up. I return to my idea of enclosing bodies in tubes of glass, only to observe that it will be absolutely necessary to make use of this method, in the experiments upon the expansion of bodies affected by humidity, as well as by heat, for those cannot be exposed naked to the heat of the water. Woods, therefore, may be compared either with one another, or with metals, by enclosing them in glass tubes. Some difficulties I met with from the vapours which form themselves in heated tubes; one of the eu egard si mes tables n'avoient ete toutes calculees. Cependant des lors je n'en ai pas appercu le besoin par mes propres observations. Voila donc un nouvel objet d'examen; et par consequent les observations de ces Messieurs sont tres interessantes; puis qu'elles engageront les physiciens a ne pas abandonner cet objet, jusqu'a ce qu'il soit eclairic. Je reviens a l'idee de renfermer les corps dans des tubes de verre, pour ajouter seulement, qu'il sera indispensable d'employer ce moyen, lors qu'on voudra soumettre a ces experiences des corps que l'humidite affecte aussi bien que la chaleur: car ceux la ne peuvent pas etre exposes nuds a la chaleur de l'eau. On pourra donc par exemple comparer les bois entr'eux ou avec les metaux, en les renfermant dans des tubes de verre. Quelques difficultes que j'ai eprouvees, a cause des vapeurs qui se forment dans les tubes echauffes, et qui sont une de mes raisons K k k 2 de 468 Mr. DE LUC on the reasons why I suspect the experiments made upon air in Manometers, has obliged me to suspend the experiments I had undertaken upon the expansion of woods. This method of finding the relative expansibilities of bodies may easily be turned into a method of finding their absolute expansibilities: for if one knows with certainty the expansibility of the rod of glass to which all the other bodies are compared; by means of that, one will come to the knowledge of the absolute expansibility of all these bodies. The point then would be to give all possible attention, and use all the resources of art, to the determining the expansibility of this rod of glass; and this one may hope to arrive at by this same machine, as I shall shew by the following account of my first trial. Essay de suspecter les experiences faites sur l'air dans les Manometres, m'ont oblige de suspendre celles que j'avois entreprises sur l'expansion des bois. Cette methode de trouver les expansibilites relatives des corps, peut encore etre changee aisement en une methode de trouver leurs expansibilites absolues. Car si l'on connoit par exemple celle de la branche de verre a laquelle on comparera tous les autres corps, on connoitra par elle l'expansibilite absolue de tous ces corps. Il ne s'agiroit donc que de concentrer son attention, et toutes les ressources de l'art, sur la determination de l'expansibilite de cette branche de verre; a quoi l'on peut esperer de reussir avec cette meme machine, comme je vais le montrer d'apres un premier essai. Essai Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 469 Essay upon the measure of the absolute expansion of bodies by heat. Though I did not at first intend to make use of my instrument in the measure of absolute expansions, I could not help making some experiments on this subject. Besides the immoveable wire placed in the focus of the Microscope, I had desired Mr. RAMSDEN to put in another, moveable by a screw: I then began, first, by seeking the value of the parts of the Micrometer, in doing which the little scale I had traced on the lamella of brass was again of service to me. I had made it as exact as I possibly could; each of its divisions was the 400th part of a French foot. The divided part of it was three Essai sur la mesure des expansions absolues des corps par la chaleur. Quoique je n'eusse pas intention d'abord d'employer ma machine a mesurer des expansions absolues, je ne laissai pas de tenter quelques experiences sur cet objet. Outre le fil immobile place au foyer du Microscope, j'avois demande a Mr RAMSDEN d'en mettre un qui fut mobile, et conduit par une vis. Je cherchai donc d'abord la valeur des parties du Micrometre; a quoi me servit encore la petite echelle tracee sur ma lame de leton. Je l'avois faite aussi exactement qu'il m'avoit ete possible, et ses parties etoient des 400mes du pied de France. Elle avoit 470 Mr. DE LUC on three French inches in length, consequently consisted of 100 of these parts, that were, or were supposed to be, equal. Pointing then my Microscope at first upon one of the extremities of the scale, the two wires coinciding, I brought the moveable wire to the next point, counting the turns of the screw: then conducting the immoveable wire from one part to another of the scale, and bringing at every change the moveable wire to the point immediately following, I noted all these lengths of the parts measured by the Micrometer, the small differences of which marked the imperfections of the scale. The mean of these 100 measures gave me 21,333 turns of the screw, for a part of my scale, that is, for 1/400th of a French foot. This, according to the proportion of 16 to 15 between this foot and the English, a proportion exact enough avoit 3 pouces de France dans la portion divisee, et par consequent 100 de ces parties egales, ou censees l'etre. Pointant donc d'abord mon Microscope sur l'une des extremites de l'echelle, tandis que les deux fils coincidoient, j'amenai le fil mobile sur le point suivant, en comptant les tours de la vis; puis conduisant le fil immobile de partie en partie de l'echelle, et amenant a chaque fois le fil mobile au point immediatement suivant, je notai toutes ces grandeurs des parties, mesurees par le Micrometre, dont les petites differences marquoient les imperfections de l'echelle. Le milieu entre ces 100 mesures me donna 21,333 tours de la vis, pour une partie de mon echelle, c'est a dire pour 1/400 du pied de France. Ce qui, dans le rapport de 16 a 15 de ce pied Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 471 enough for this measure (and perhaps very exact) makes twenty turns for 1/400th of the English foot, or one turn for 1/8000th of a foot. One could easily distinguish the effect of 1/10th of a turn; consequently, the instrument was sensible at 1/80000th of a foot, or about 1/7000th of an inch. Knowing thus the value of the parts of my Micrometer, I undertook to measure the absolute lengthening of my rod of glass, which was of 18 English inches; and from a mean of four experiments, the result of which differed very little, I found that my rod of glass had lengthened 7,5 turns of the screw of my Micrometer from the heat of 10~ of my Thermometer to that of 70~. I shall not make any sensible error if I augment this number of turns in the proportion of 60 to 80, in order to obtain the total expansion which would be made by the pied a celui d'Angleterre, assez exact pour un objet de cette nature (et peut-etre tres exact) fait 20 tour pour 1/400 du pied Anglois, ou 1 tour pour 1/8000 de pied. On pouvoit distinguer aisement l'effet d'1/10 de tour, et par consequent l'instrument etoit sensible a 1/80000 de pied, ou environ 1/7000 de pouce. Connoissant la valeur des parties de mon Micrometre, j'entrepris de mesurer l'allongement absolu de ma branche de verre, qui avoit 18 pouces anglois: et par un milieu entre quatre experiences, dont les resultats differerent tres peu, je trouvai que, de la chaleur de 10~ sur mon Thermometre a celle de 70~, ma branche de verre s'etoit allongee de 7,5 tours de la vis du Micrometre. Je ne ferai pas une erreur sensible en augmentant ce nombre de tours dans le rapport de 60 a 80, pour avoir l'expansion totale qui se seroit faite par le passage de l'eau dans la glace a l'eau bouillante, soit de o a 80~, malgre la consideration de 472 Mr. DE LUC on the passage of water in ice to boiling water, that is, from 0 to 80~ upon my Thermometer, notwithstanding the consideration of the different progress of quicksilver and glass in their expansions by heat, which I shall speak of hereafter; because the two terms of the observation, 10~ and 70~, are equi-distant from the two fixed points of the Thermometer. I shall have then a third part to add to the number of turns for the expansion of 18 inches of glass passing from the heat of water in ice to that of boiling water, which will make 10 turns, or 62/3 for the expansion of one foot. One turn of the screw being equal to 1/8000th of a foot, 62/3 make 62/3/8000 = 1/1200th of a foot = 1/100th of an inch in one foot. Now this is precisely what had been found by Mr. SMEATON. However, this singular conformity may be de la difference des marches du mercure et du verre dans leurs expansions par la chaleur, dont je parlerai ci-apres: parce que les deux termes de l'observation, qui sont 10~ et 70~, se trouvent a egale distance de ces deux points fixes du Thermometre. J'aurai donc un tiers a ajouter au nombre des tours, pour l'expansion de 18 pouces de verre, passans de la chaleur de l'eau dans la glace a celle de l'eau bouillante; ce qui fera 10 tours, ou 62/3 pour l'expansion d'1 pied. Un tour du Micrometre etant egal a 1/8000 de pied, 62/3 font 62/3/8000 = 1/1200 de pied = 1/100 de pouce dans 1 pied. Et voila precisement ce que Mr SMEATON avoit trouve par ses experiences. Cependant cette conformite singuliere pourroit 7 bien Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 473 be only accidental; for I do not believe that all glasses have an equal dilatability by heat. Their dilatability often appears different when they are soldered; for it is no doubt owing to that, that the parts which are united when they are melted, often separate when they grow cold, which does not happen when the glass is exactly the same. It is possible, therefore, that this apparently exact conformity was occasioned by some compensation, rather than by real exactness. I said before, that the irregularities I observed, when the glass and the brass were combined, were not to be attributed to the glass, and here is a proof of it. When I had adjusted the immoveable wire of my Microscope to a sharp point which terminated my rod of glass, the water being at the temperature of 10~ of my Thermobien n'etre qu'accidentelle; car je ne crois pas que les differens verres ayent tous une egale dilatabilite par la chaleur: on ne voit que trop souvent quand on les soude, que leurs dilatabilites peuvent etre differentes; car c'est sans doute par la, que les parties reunies quand elles sont fondues, se separent quelquesois en so refroidissant; ce qui n'arrive pas quand c'est exactement le meme verre. Il se pourroit donc que cette exacte conformite apparente vint de quelque compensation plutot que d'une exactitude reelle. J'ai dit ci-dessus que les irregularites que je remarquois lorsque le verre et le leton etoient combines, ne devoient pas etre attribuees au verre; et en voici la preuve. Lorsque j'avois ajuste le fil immobile de mon Microscope sur une pointe aigue qui terminoit ma branche de verre, tandis que l'eau etoit a la temVOL. LXVIII. L l l perature 474 Mr. DE LUC on Thermometer, and that, after having heated it to 70~, I brought it back gradually to 10~, the point either returned exactly to the wire, or so near to it that I could draw no conclusion, from the small difference, against the regularity of the return of the glass to its same length in the same temperature. In one of the four experiments it returned exactly; in a second, I wanted light indeed to observe this last point, but I could judge from the preceding steps that it would be exact; in the others, the differences would have seemed to indicate, that the glass had retained some part of its lengthening; but the quantity was so small, that even when it was real, it might be considered as null in practice. Glass consequently is the fittest substance to be made use of as the standard of comparison in experiments upon the comparative dilatabilities of bodies; since whatever perature de 10~ de mon Thermometre, et qu'apres l'avoir echauffee a 70~ je la ramenois peu a peu a 10~, la pointe revenoit exactement au fil, ou si pres, que je n'ai pu en tirer aucune consequence contre la regularite du retour du verre a sa meme longueur dans la meme temperature. Dans une des quatre experiences il y revint exactement; dans un autre le jour me manqua pour observer ce dernier point, mais je pus juger par les pas precedens, qu'il seroit juste; et dans les deux autres les differences auroient indique que le verre aussi avoit conserve un peu de son allongement: mais la quantite etoit si petite, que lors meme qu'elle seroit reelle, on pourroit la regarder comme nulle dans la pratique. Le verre est donc la matiere la plus propre a servir de terme de comparaison dans les experiences sur les dilatabilites comparatives des corps; puisque les irregularites Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 475 ever irregularities there might be in the observations, they would certainly arise only from the bodies that may be compared to it, and might for that reason be more easily ascertained and determined. It has even another useful property for such a purpose, and that is, its being one of the least dilatable of all bodies, from which it would almost always happen that it should be the rod of glass which would be fixed, the other being shorter; which would prevent making any changes in the apparatus. Glass, as I have said before, would likewise be an useful substance for the pendulum; since one might depend upon the constancy of the progress of its variations by heat. It is true, indeed, that its fragility would be an objection to using it in common clocks; but the astronomer, accustomed larites qu'on appercevroit dans les observations, ne viendroient surement que des corps qui lui seroient compares, et pourroient etre par la plus aisement constatees et determinees. Il a meme encore pour cet usage une autre propriete utile; c'est d'etre un des moins dilatables des corps: par la il arriveroit presque toujours que ce seroit la branche de verre qui seroit fixee, l'autre etant plus courte; ce qui epargneroit des changemens dans l'appareil. Le verre seroit encore, comme je l'ai deja dit, une matiere precieuse pour le pendule; puis qu'on pourroit compter sur la constance de sa marche dans les variations de la chaleur. Sa fragilite seroit sans doute une objection pour les penL l l 2 dules 476 Mr. DE LUC on accustomed to respect his clock as well as all his other instruments, would not be prevented by this consideration. This regularity of the returns of glass to the same length by the same temperature in my four experiments, is likewise a proof of the exactness of the instrument; and if the value of the parts of the Micrometer was well ascertained, one might be sure of the absolute expansion of the glass I made use of. I dare not yet be positive that this is so, because the part of the screw which measured these expansions is not the same as that which measured the parts of my scale. But for an experiment which it should be necessary to make only once, it would be easy to measure the expansions of the glass by many parts of the screw, in the intervals of those turns which had served to measure the parts of the scale, dules ordinaires; mais l'Astronome, accoutume a respecter sa pendule comme tous ses autres instrumens, ne sera pas arrete par cette consideration. Cette regularite des retours du verre a la meme longueur par la meme temperature dans mes quatre experiences, est aussi une preuve de l'exactitude de l'instrument. Et si la valeur des parties du Micrometre etoit bien determinee, on pourroit etre sur de l'expansion absolue du verre que j'employai. Je ne puis pas l'assurer encore, parce que la partie de la vis qui mesura ces expansions, n'est pas la meme que celle qui mesuroit les parties de mon echelle. Mais il seroit aise, pour une experience qu'on ne seroit oblige de faire qu'une fois, de mesurer les expansions du verre par plusieurs parties de la vis, dans l'intervalle de ses tours qui auroit servi a mesurer les parties de l'echelle, pour 7 prendre Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 477 scale, in order, if the results should happen to be different, to take a mean of them. In a word, for this one measure one might use all the precautions that are not grudged in a fundamental experiment, though one is apt to neglect them in common use. The expansion of a certain rod of glass might therefore be thus determined; and by fixing to it afterwards any other substance, in the manner which I have explained, one would have, by means of the immoveable wire alone, their absolute expansibility, free from any sensible error occasioned from the instrument. Notwithstanding that the expansions of the glass were regular in my experiments, they did not observe the same progress as my Thermometer in their degrees. Those of the glass were always increasing, or its condensations decreasing, prendre ensuite le milieu entre les resultats, s'ils etoient differens. En un mot on pourroit prendre dans cette mesure unique, toutes les precautions qu'on ne regrette pas dans une experience fondamentale, mais qu'on neglige si aisement dans l'usage ordinaire. On determineroit donc ainsi l'expansion d'une certaine branche de verre, d'apres laquelle, en attachant ensuite a cette branche toute autre matiere comme je l'ai explique, on auroit, par le fil immobile seul, leur expansibilite absolue exempte de toute erreur sensible provenant de l'instrument. Quoique les expansions du verre se trouvassent regulieres dans mes experiences, elles ne suivirent pas la marche du Thermometre dans leurs degres: celles du verre furent toujours croissantes, ou ses condensations decroissantes, compa478 Mr. DE LUC on decreasing, comparatively, with those of the quicksilver in the Thermometer. Having observed this progress of the glass very clearly in my three first experiments, I directed the last to the purpose of ascertaining it, and for this reason I made it with the greatest care. I first of all adjusted the Microscope to the point at the extremity of the glass, the two wires coinciding, and the water being at 10~: I afterwards changed this first water into warm water of 70~, and was obliged to move the moveable wire 7,6 turns of the screw to reach the point. I then cooled the water progressively by 10~ at a time, and these are the proportions of the condensations of the glass as they were marked by the moveable wire regressively, 31, 29, 26, 24, 22, 19. These are twentieth parts of the turns of the screw, the sum of them makes 7,6 turns, by which comparativement a celles du mercure dans le Thermometre. Ayant remarque cette marche du verre d'une maniere tres sensible dans mes trois premieres experiences, je dirigeai la quatrieme vers le but de la determiner, et je l'executai pour cela avec le plus grand soin. J'ajustai d'abord le Microscope sur la pointe qui etoit a l'extremite du verre, les deux fils coincidant, et l'eau etant a 10~: je changeai ensuite cette premiere eau en de l'eau chaude a 70~: et il me fallut mouvoir le fil mobile de 7,6 tours de la vis, pour attendre la pointe. Puis je refroidis l'eau de 10~ en 10~, et voici les rapports des condensations du verre, tels que le fil mobile les indiqua en retrograndant: 31, 29, 26, 24, 22, 19. Ce sont des 20me de tours de la vis; leur somme sait les 7,6 tours dont la vis s'etoit Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 479 which the screw had got forward; and it is this one, of my four experiments, in which I said that the return of the glass to the point from whence it had set out was perfectly exact. These numbers are sensibly in arithmetical progression; but I do not pretend to infer from thence, that this is the true law observed by the condensations of glass, compared with the condensations of quicksilver equal between themselves; to affirm that, one should have examined the Micrometer better. It is evident, however, that they are considerably decreasing. I must mention here, why I chose to observe the condensations of glass in water successively less heated, rather than its dilatations in water successively more heated. It is because by this means I brought the water with much more certainty to an uniform temperature. If s'etoit avancee; et c'est celle de mes quatre experiences ou j'ai dit, que le retour du verre a son point de depart fut parfaitement exact. Ces nombres sont sensiblement en progression arithmetique; mais je ne pretends pas en conclure que ce soit la la vraie loi que suivent les condensations du verre, comparativement a des condensations du mercure egales entr'elles; il faudroit pour cela avoir mieux examine le Micrometre: cependant on voit au moins avec certitude qu'elles sont considerablement decroissantes. Je dois faire mention ici de la raison pour laquelle j'ai presere d'observer des condensations du verre dans l'eau successivement moins chaude, plutot que ses dilatations dans l'eau successivement plus chaude. C'est que par cette voye j'amenois beaucoup plus surement mon eau a une temperature uniforme. Si 480 Mr. DE LUC on If you pour warm water upon water that is less warm, whether it be that the first, being lighter, remains at the top, or that heat descends difficultly in water, or from both causes united, certain it is, that there may be surprizing differences between the top and the bottom. My Thermometer, as I said before, was hung in such a manner that the ball of it was near the middle of the rod of glass. When I poured warm water slowly upon water that was less warm, it sometimes happened that the Thermometer did not vary till I had mixed them. I tried to convey warm water to the bottom through a pipe; but it immediately rose: and if the Thermometer did not happen to be upon its ascending stream, it still rose very little, and it was always requisite to stir the water before the Thermometer was fixed. On the contrary, when I poured water Si l'on verse de l'eau chaude sur de l'eau moins chaude; soit que la premiere etant plus legere reste a la surface; soit que la chaleur descende difficilement dans l'eau; soit par l'une et l'autre de ces causes; il peut y avoir des differences de chaleur surprenantes entre le haut et le bas. Mon Thermometre, comme je l'ai dit, etoit suspendu de maniere que sa boule ctoit au milieu de la hauteur de la branche de verre. Quand je versois lentement de l'eau chaude sur de l'eau moins chaude, il arrivoit quelquesois que le Thermometre ne varioit pas jusqu'a ce que je les eusse melees. Je voulus essayer de porter l'eau chaude dans le fond par un tuyau; mais elle s'elevoit aussitot: et si le Thermometre ne se trouvoit pas sur son passage, il montoit peu encore; et toujours il falloit beaucoup agiter l'eau avant qu'il fut immobile. Au contraire lorsque je versois l'eau moins chaude sur on Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 481 water less warm upon warmer water, it was scarce necessary to stir the mixture: before I had done it, the Thermometer had almost quite fallen to the point of the mean temperature. This therefore is much the safest method for all operations of this kind. I had already experienced it in the comparison of Thermometers made of different liquors, which I have mentioned in my work above quoted. By operating in this manner I was sure to have given the rod of glass the degree of heat indicated by my Thermometer; and I repeat it, without assuring that the numbers above written give us the true law of the condensations of glass comparatively with degrees that are equal among themselves upon the Thermometer, their difference is too great, and too regular not to point out a progression sensibly decreasing. Here sur l'eau plus chaude, je n'avois presque pas besoin d'agiter le melange; avant que je l'eusse fait, le Thermometre avoit baisse presque entirement au point de la temperature moyenne. C'est donc la methode la plus sure de beaucoup pour toutes les operations de ce genre. Je l'avois deja eprouve dans la comparaison des Thermometres de differentes liqueurs dont j'ai parle dans mon ouvrage cite ci-devant. En operant donc de cette maniere j'etois sur d'avoir communique a ma branche de verre la chaleur qu'indiquoit mon Thermometre. Et je le repete, sans assurer que les nombres rapportes ci-dissus nous donnent la vraie loi des condensations du verre, comparativement a des degres egaux entr'eux sur le Thermometre, leur difference est trop grande et trop reguliere, pour ne pas indiquer une progression sensiblement decroissante. VOL. LXVIII. M m m Ainsi 482 Mr. DE LUC on Here then is a second instance in these experiments alone, of the difference there may be between the laws that follow in their progress different effects of the same causes; an object very important in natural philosophy, and to the elucidating of which I dedicate the second part of this paper. P A R T Ainsi voila le second exemple, dans ces experiences seules, de la difference qu'il peut y avoir entre les loix que suivent les differens effets des memes causes; objet important en physique, et auquel je destine la second partie de ce Memoire. S E C O N D E Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 483 P A R T T H E S E C O N D. Observations upon physical measures. MOST of our physical instruments are measures of effects. The progress made in natural philosophy, encreases every day the number of these measures; or rather it is by the encrease of them that natural philosophy has been so much improved within a century, and that it still continues daily to improve. In proportion as its different branches encrease or extend themselves, we see the catalogue of our meters encrease. Instead of continuing to be satisfied with perceiving, with conjecturing, with forming systems upon what is improperly called the possible, and is in fact the land of visions, we endeavour to S E C O N D E P A R T I E. Remarques sur les Mesures physiques. LA plupart de nos machines de physique, ne sont que des mesures d'effets. Le perfectionnement de la Physique augmente tous les jours le nombre de ces mesures; ou plutot, c'est par leur augmentation que la physique a tant gagne depuis un siecle, et qu'elle gagne encore chaque jour: nous voyons s'accroitre le catalogue de nos metres, a mesure que ses diverses branches se developpent et s'etendent. Peu contens aujourd'hui d'appercevoir, de conjecturer, de faire des systemes dans ce qu'on appelle improprement le possible, et qui n'est que la region des chimeres, nous entreprenons de decouvrir les causes par leurs effets, M m m 2 en 484 Mr. DE LUC on to investigate causes through their effects, by measuring these wherever nature gives us a sufficient hold, in order not to be deceived by semblances of truth. The first rays of this light, the dawn of all true knowledge in philosophy, were extremely weak. At first philosophers were satisfied with having instruments which indicated the existence of certain causes that our organs could either not discover at all, or discovered very imperfectly. Hence the modest names given by the first inventors to their instruments. They called only Baroscopes, Thermoscopes, Microscopes, those instruments which were intended to show the weight of the air, the dilatation of bodies by heat, the objects which escaped the naked eye. These en mesurant ceux-ci, partout ou la nature nous donne quelque prise, pour n'etre pas trompes par des appercus. Les premiers rayons de cette lumiere, qui etoient l'aurore des vrayes connoissances en physique, furent d'abord tres foibles. On se trouva bien content d'avoir des machines qui fissent appercevoir surement l'existence de certaines causes, que nos organes seuls ne pouvoient decouvrir, ou ne decouvroient que tres imparfaitement. De la les denominations modestes que les premiers inventeurs donnerent a leurs machines. Ils n'appellerent que Baroscopes, Thermoscopes, Microscopes, leurs instruments destines a montrer, le poids de l'air, la dilatation des corps par la chaleur, les objets qui echappent a la vue. 7 On Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 485 These names were too soon changed, in calling measures what was not yet such; but we every day become more delicate with respect to the conditions they require; and the progress made towards perfecting them, are the most effectual steps which have been made towards the knowledge of Nature; for it is they that have given us a disgust to the jargon of systems, founded upon mere hypotheses or deceitful appearances, the consequences of which were spreading fast into metaphysics, in which it occasioned general confusion. The improvement of physical measures does not only lead us to a better knowledge of the immediate causes of the effects thus measured, but it assists us in decomposing complex effects, and especially in discovering and determining the simultaneous effects which I shall hereafter name the co-effects of the same causes. When On a change trop tot la terminaison de ces noms et de bien d'autres semblables, en qualifiant de mesure ce qui ne l'etoit point encore. Mais chaque jour on devient plus delicat sur les conditions qu'elles exigent; et les progres vers leur perfection, sont les pas les plus reels qu'on ait faits vers la connoissance de la Nature: car ce sont ceux qui ont le plus contribue a nous degouter du jargon des systemes fondes sur des hypotheses ou des apparences trompeuses, dont les consequences passoient en foule dans la Metaphysique, et y boulversoient tout. Le perfectionnement des Mesures physique ne nous conduit pas uniquement a mieux connoitre les causes immediates des effets mesures; mais il nous aide a decomposer les effets complexes, et surtout a decouvrir et determiner les effets simultanes, que je nommerai dans la suite les co-effets des memes causes. Quand 486 Mr. DE LUC on When from experiments, sometimes very nice, we have assured ourselves that two or more effects constantly go together in certain relations, we may content ourselves with observing the most evident of them, and depend upon the existence of the others, as if they were immediately observed. This leads us from relation to relation to the discovery of operations of Nature which before were entirely hidden: and nothing can be more useful to man, than sometimes to examine, how he reasoned upon those objects before he was guided by experience. These instances of the connections of effects,discovered, and afterwards measured one by the other, are now become so frequent in natural philosophy that it would be useless to insist upon them: and indeed when one considers our physical instruments, one may see that the greatest part Quand par des experiences, souvent tres delicates, nous sommes assures que deux ou plusieurs effets marchent toujours ensemble dans certains rapports, nous pouvons nous contenter d'observer le plus evident, et compter sur l'existence des autres comme s'ils etoient immediatement manifests; ce qui nous conduit, de rapport en rapport, a decouvrir des operations de la Nature, qui avant cela nous etoient entierement voilees: et rien n'est plus necessaire a l'Homme, que d'examiner quelquefois comment il en raisonnoit avant qu'il eut ces secours. Les exemples de ces liaisons d'effets, decouverts, et mesures ensuite les uns par les autres, sont aujourd'hui si multiplies dans la Physique, qu'il seroit inutile d'insister sur ce point: et quand on considere meme l'ensemble de nos machines de Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 487 part of them are intended only for the discovery of coeffects, by the knowledge of those which are more evident. Our search after new measures has likewise the same end in view. If we wish for an Hygrometer, an Electrometer, a Photometer, it is less with a design of arriving by means of them to a knowledge of the absolute or relative quantities, of moisture, of electric fluid, of light, than to endeavour afterwards to connect the perceptible effects of these causes upon our measures, with other less evident effects, but which depend upon them, either as separate co-effects, or as modifications of other effects. With all this the general problem of physical measures is a complicated one from the first outset. The first object of all these measures is to know the existence of a simple cause and of its degrees of intensity; and we have de physique, on voit que le plus grand nombre n'est destine qu'a determiner des co-effets, par la connoissance de ceux qui sont le plus evidens. La plupart aussi de nos recherches de nouvelles mesures tendent a ce meme but. Si nous desirons un Hygrometre, un Electrometre, un Photometre, c'est moins pour connoitre, en les observant, les quantites absolues ou relatives de l'humidite, du fluide electrique, de la lumiere; que pour travailler ensuite a lier les effets evidens de ces causes sur nos mesures, a d'autres effets moins evidens qui en dependent, ou comme co-effets separes, ou comme modifications d'autres effets. Cependant le probleme general des mesures physiques est complique des son premier pas. Connoitre l'existence d'une cause simple et ses degres d'intensite, est 488 Mr. DE LUC on have nothing to come at it, but the effects which this cause produces upon other bodies, which, for the most part, do themselves comprehend a great number of other causes. We can never therefore, observe effects absolutely simple; and consequently, sensible effects which are equal amongst themselves, do not point out degrees likewise equal amongst themselves in the cause to which they are attributed. What, for instance, are our measures of heat? The dilatations of bodies. What our measures of the weight of the air? The height of the quicksilver in the Barometer. But the dilatation of bodies by heat depends upon the nature of bodies, as well for its quantity, as for the law of its progression by equal augmentations of heat; and the effects of the weight of the air upon the quicksilver of the Barometer, are modified by the different degrees of the heat of this liquid, by est le premier objet de toutes ces mesures; et nous n'avons pour y arriver, que les effets que produit cette cause sur certains corps, qui deja eux-memes renferment le plus souvent une multitude d'autres causes. Jamais donc nous ne pouvons observer des effets absolument simples; et par consequent, des effets sensibles qui sont egaux entr'eux, ne marquent point des degres, aussi egaux entr'eux, dans la cause a laquelle nous les attribuons. Qu'est-ce par exemple que nos mesures de la chaleur? Ce sont les dilatations des corps. Qu'est.ce que la mesure du poids de l'air? C'est la hauteur du mercure dans le Barometre. Et deja la dilatation des corps par la chaleur depend de leur nature, tant pour sa quantite, que pour la loi de ses progres par des augmentations egales de la chaleur: et l'effet du poids de l'air sur le mercure du Barometre est modifie, par les divers degres Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 489 by the nature of the vacuum in which it is suspended, by the attraction of the glass, by the friction, perhaps by the permeability of glass to some particles of that mixed fluid to which we give the general name of air, or by various other causes that are equally unknown to us. The same holds true with regard to all other physical measures; and this first step of the ladder, by which we strive to raise ourselves to the knowledge of causes, is already very difficult to ascertain. The second, however, is much more so, since it depends upon determining the co-effects of the same causes, either in the same or in different bodies. Thus when we shall be possessed of an Hygrometer, we shall endeavour to find out what effects this humor, whose presence and degrees will be indicated by the instrument, produces degres de chaleur de ce liquide, par la nature du vuide dans lequel il est suspendu, par l'attraction du verre, par le frottement; et peut-etre encore par la permeabilite du verre a quelques particules de ce que nous appellons en general l'air, ou par d'autres causes qui nous sont egalement inconnues. Il en est de meme de toutes les autres mesures physiques; et ce premier echellon, par lequel nous cherchons a nous elever a la connoissance des causes, est deja tres difficile a bien assurer. Mais le second l'est bien advantage. Il consiste a determiner les co-effets des memes causes, ou dans les memes corps, ou dans des corps differens. Ainsi, quand nous aurons un Hygrometre, nous chercherons a savoir quel effet produit, sur l'yvoire qui s'allonge, sur les sels dont le poids augmente, sur la densite de VOL. LXVIII. N n n l'air 490 Mr. DE LUC on produces upon ivory which lengthens, upon salts whose weight increases, upon the density of the air which varies, upon its salubrity, its refringent power, &c. But even when this is done, we shall be embarassed by the degrees of these co-effects; probably they will not all increase in the same proportions as the dilatations of the ivory, or the augmentations of the weight of an absorbant body; and a great many experiments will be necessary to discover the laws they observe by the different intensities of this common cause. It is notwithstanding upon relations of this sort, that every thing depends in experimental philosophy and indeed in all true philosophy. Consequently, the perfecting the methods of determining these relations must be a principal object with all good philosophers. I will not l'air qui varie, sur sa salubrite, sur sa vertu refringente, cette humor dont la presence et les degres seront indiques par l'instrument. Mais alors encore les degres des co-effets nous embarrasseront: il ne croitront pas vraisemblablement dans les memes rapports que les dilatations de l'yvoire, ou les augmentations de poids d'un corps absorbant; et il faudra bien des experiences pour decouvrir les loix qu'ils suivent par les differentes intensites de cette cause commune. C'est cependant a des rapports de ce genre que tout se reduit dans la physique experimentale, et par cela meme dans la bonne physique speculative qui ne se paye pas de mots. Par consequent le perfectionnement des methodes pour determiner ces rapports, doit etre un des objets de la plus grande attention des Physiciens. Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 491 not enter into the methods which lead us step by step to the discovery of the corresponding progressions of coeffects of the same causes: it would be too difficult to generalize them whenever one went beyond that fundamental principle of all science, sound logic; and, what is the best preservative against precipitation, the knowledge of the weakness of our organs and of our understanding. But it is not always practicable to trace in all its points, the curve that is described by a series of corresponding phenomena; and we are often forced to content ourselves with considering as proportional in all degrees of intensity of the cause, some relations that have been either observed or found by experiment. This expedient one is likewise often reduced to in practice, in order not to complicate processes without reason. Thus, for siciens. Je ne m'arreterai pas a celles qui conduisent a decouvrir pas a pas les marches correspondantes des co-effets des memes causes: il seroit trop difficile de les generaliser des qu'on voudroit aller au de la de ce principe fondamental de toute science, une bonne logique; et de ce preservatif contre la precipitation, la connoissance de la foiblesse de nos organes et de notre intelligence. Mais il n'est pas toujours possible de tracer par tous leurs points, les courbes que decrivent les suites des phenomenes correspondants; et l'on est souvent reduit a se contenter de regarder comme proportionnels dans tous les degres d'intensite de la cause, quelques rapports observes ou trouves par l'experience. C'est meme un expedient auquel on est le plus souvent reduit dans la pratique, pour n'y pas compliquer les procedes sans avantage. Ainsi dans le Pendule, comme dans mon N n n 2 Hygrometre, 492 Mr. DE LUC on for instance, in the Pendulum and in my Hygrometer, if one would take notice of the different laws which follow, in their dilatations by heat, the substances whose effects one means to compensate the one by the other, besides the difficulty of finding these laws, the application might perhaps throw us into mechanical complications, that would destroy all the exactness we want to produce by these means. In general, the fixing of laws is scarce ever the first step taken in new discoveries. One begins by establishing by experiment some fundamental relations, and one consider afterwards the corresponding points of the phenomena as being proportional, till be degrees, overcoming the difficulties, one becomes to grow familiar with what one used to look upon before as great strides; and one perceives Hygrometre, si l'on vouloit avoir egard aux differentes loix que suivent dans leurs dilatations par la chaleur, les matieres dont on cherche a compenser les effets les uns par les autres; outre la difficulte de decouvrir ces loix, on se jetteroit peut-etre dans des complications mecaniques, qui detruiroient toute l'exactitude qu'on vouloit chercher par ce moyen. En general, dans toutes les nouvelles decouvertes, les premiers pas sont rarement des fixations de Loix. On etablit quelque rapports fondamentaux par l'experience, et l'on regarde les autres points correspondans des phenomenes, comme proportionnels a ceux la; jusqu'a ce que, surmontant par degre les obstacles, on soit parvenu a se familliariser avec ce qu'on regardoit d'abord comme de grands pas Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 493 perceives that there are greater steps that may and ought to be made. It is useful, therefore, to consider in what manner one might with some safety mark out these first sketches of the laws of Nature, by finding the particular relations of the co-effects which might be applied with least error to proportional scales. It will be contributing to bring forward the moment in which, seeing clearer into the nature of things, and having learnt to distinguish real knowledge from what has only the appearance of it, we shall be led to seek for exactness in every thing. A pracpas, et a sentir qu'il faut et qu'on peut aller plus loin. Il est donc avantageux de considerer, comment on pourroit tracer avec quelque surete ces premieres esquisses des Loix de la Nature, en trouvant les rapports particuliers des co-effets qui s'appliqueroient avec le moins d'erreur a des echelles proportionnelles. Ce sera accelerer le moment, ou, voyant plus clair dans la nature des choses, et distinguant bien les connoissances reelles, d'avec ce qui n'en a que l'apparence, nous nous sentirons conduits a chercher l'exactitude partout. Moyen 494 Mr. DE LUC on A practical method of approximation in the determination of the co-effects of the same causes. It has been thought hitherto, that in order to lessen the effects of the errors which are unavoidable in observations and experiments, one ought to look for the relations of the co-effects at the greatest possible distances; because in that case the errors being divided upon a greater space, each separate part is less affected by them. Thus, in order to find the relation of the dilatations of brass and steel employed in the Pendulum, one would willingly expose these metals to an artificial congelation and to the heat of boiling oil, that, by measuring greater lengthenings, Moyen pratique d'approximation, dans la fixation des rapports des co-effets des memes causes. On a imagine jusqu'ici, que pour diminuer les effets des erreurs inevitables dans les observations et les experiences, il falloit chercher les rapports des coeffets aux plus grandes distances possibles; parce que ces erreurs se divisant sur un plus grand intervalle, deviennent plus insensibles sur chacune de ses parties. C'est ainsi que pour trouver le rapport des dilatations du leton et de l'acier qu'on employe au Pendule, on exposeroit volontiers ces metaux a une congelation artificielle et a la chaleur de l'huile bouillante; afin que pouvant mesurer de plus grands Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 495 lengthenings, the imperfection of the measure might become insensible in the determination of their relation. This method is indeed very good to compare with each other effects, the progressions of which are proportioned; and one is right to make use of it whenever extent or weight is concerned. But it is often very deceitful in physics: for as the co-effects seldom go by proportional degrees, the more the observed points of their relations are distant, the more the deviations become considerable in the intermediate points, when they are considered as proportional to the whole. It is thus that two different curves, which cut each other in two points, deviate the more from each other in the space comprized between the two interfections, the more distant the points of intersection are from each other. Now the correspondent points, taken by observation in two series of phenomena which grands allongemens, l'imperfection de la mesure devint insensible dans la fixation de leur rapport. Cette methode seroit tres bonne pour comparer entr'eux des effets qui auroient des marches proportionnelles; et on l'employe avec raison quand il s'agit de l'etendue ou des poids: mais elle est le plus souvent fort trompeuse en Physique. Car des que les co-effets marchent rarement par degres proportionnels, plus les points observes des rapports sont distans, plus les ecarts deviennent grands dans les points intermediaires, en les regardant comme proportionnels au rapport total. C'est ainsi que deux courbes differentes qui se croisent en deux points, s'ecartent d'autant plus l'une de l'autre dans l'intervalle des deux intersections, que ces points de rencontre sont plus eloignes. Or les points correspondans par observa7 tion, 496 Mr. DE LUC on which follow different laws, are the intersections of the curves; and the errors we make in the intermediate relations when we consider them as proportional, are like the deviations of the two curves in the interval of the intersections. The effect then intended to be produced by taking very distant points of comparison being, in general, to accumulate within the intervals of these points the deviations of the laws which happen to be different; much will be gained, in those cases in which the laws themselves cannot be discovered, by seeking for points of comparison within the least distances that the particular observations, for which the physical measures are intended, will allow. It is thus that we have happened to have used for a long time Thermometers of quicksilver and spirits of wine, in tion, de deux suites de phenomenes qui suivent des loix differentes, sont les intersections de ces courbes; et les erreurs qu'on fait dans les rapports intermediaires en les considerant comme proportionnels, sont comme les ecarts des deux courbes dans l'intervalle des intersections. L'effet de prendre des points de comparaison fort distans, etant donc en general, d'accumuler dans l'intervalle de ces points les ecarts des Loix qui se trouvent differentes, on gagnera beaucoup, dans les cas ou l'on ne pourra pas decouvrir les Loix elles-memes, a chercher des points de comparaison dans les moindres distances que puissent comporter les observations particulieres auxquelles on destinera les Mesures physiques. C'est ainsi que par hazard on a eu longtems des Thermometres de mercure Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 497 in which the difference of the progressions between these two liquids in their dilatations by heat was not observed. Mr. DE REAUMUR'S Thermometer, one of the first to which one endeavoured to assign fixed points, was too difficult in its construction for each Thermometer to be~ immediately graduated; and indeed the author himself only used his method in making standards to which the Thermometers intended for common uses were afterwards compared. Abbe NOLLET, his disciple, who for a long time gave the ton for Thermometers in France and in the Southern countries, followed his master's method. The only immediate point he marked upon his Thermometers was that of freezing; and he compared them afterwards in water of 30~ of that scale in which the real interval between the freezing and boiling points ought to be divided into about 100~. By this method, mercure et d'esprit de vin ou l'on ne remarquoit pas les differences de marche de ces deux liquides. Le Thermometre de ~ DE REAUMUR, l'un des premiers auxquels on ait tente de donner des points fixes, etoit trop difficile a construire, pour que chaque Thermometre put etre gradue immediatement. Aussi l'auteur lui-meme n'employoit-il sa methode qu'a faire des etalons, auxquels il comparoit ensuite les Thermometres destines aux usages ordinaires. Mr l'Abbe NOLLET, son disciple, qui pendant long tems a donne le ton pour les Thermometres, tant en France que dans les pays meridionaux, suivit la methode de son maitre: il ne marquoit immediatement sur ses Thermometres, que le point de la congelation; et il les comparoit ensuite dans de l'eau a 30~ de cette echelle la, ou 100~ environ, divisoient l'intervalle reel de la congelation a l'eau bouillante. V OL. LXVIII. O o o Par 498 Mr. DE LUC on thod, and at that period in which natural philosophy was still very inaccurate, one did not observe the difference between the progressions of spirits of wine and quicksilver; and in fact it was easy to mistake them. I have shewn it in speaking of these Thermometers, and I shall have occasion to shew it more fully very soon. This doubtless was a defect, and a very considerable one, whether we consider that the Thermometer is intended to indicate degrees of heat, both much larger and much smaller than the interval between these 30~; or that it is a most capital instrument in natural philosophy, and as such may be used in experiments where the least defects may have sensible consequences. For these reasons I only mention this case, as an help for me to explain what I propose to say upon other instruments in which Par cette methode, et dans ce tems la ou la Physique etoit encore sort peu exacte, on ne remarquoit pas la difference des marches du mercure et de l'esprit de vin, & l'on pouvoit en effet s'y meprendre. Je l'ai montre en traitant de ces Thermometres, et je le montrerai plus particulierement bientot. Cetoit la sans doute un defaut, et un defaut tres grand; soit parce que le Thermometre est destine a indiquer des degres de chaleur bien plus grands et bien moindres que l'intervalle de ces 30~; soit parce que c'est un instrument fondamental en Physique, qui peut etre employe a des experiences ou le moindre defaut auroit des effets sensibles. Aussi ne rapporte-je ce cas, que pour m'expliquer 6 plus Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 499 which a greater degree of exactness would be either useless or impossible. Simple and evident as this principle is, yet, as it often happens that obvious ideas do not strike, even because their being obvious gives them a trivial air, I will strengthen this by useful examples, and one offers itself to which I have been led by the foregoing. Suppose one wants to know the dilatations of spirit of wine by heat,in order to have regard to it in essaying the spirituosity of vinous liquors, which is wont to be estimated by their specific gravities; an article as every one knows of much consequence in the brandy trade, and which has likewise some connection with chemistry: I say, that one would make a considerable error if, in order to determine the relations of the dilatations of the brandy with the indications of the quicksilver Thermometer, which should plus aisement dans ce que je me propose de dire sur ceux ou une plus grande exactitude seroit ou inutile ou impossible. Quelque simple et evidente que soit cette regle, comme il arrive souvent que les idees simples ne frappent point, precisement a cause de leur simplicite qui leur donne un air trivial, je fortifierai celle-ci par des exemples utiles. Et en voici un d'abord, auquel l'exemple precedent m'a conduit. Je suppose qu'on veuille connoitre les dilatations de l'esprit de vin par la chaleur, asin d'y avoir egard dans la mesure de la spirituosite des liqueurs vineuses, estimee par leur pesanteur specifique; objet important au commerce considerable des eaux de vie, et qui interesse aussi la chimie. Je dis qu'on feroit un grand ecar, si, pour determiner le rapport des dilatations de l'esprit de vin, avec les indications du Thermometre de mercure, qui serviroit ensuite a marquer la temO o o 2 perature 500 Mr. DE LUC on should afterwards mark the temperature of this liquor, one was to take terms very distant from each other, as for instance the freezing and boiling points; whilst on the other hand, by keeping within the temperatures in which the trials should be made, one would come so near the truth, that the differences would be imperceptible. This instance, in itself useful, being proper to be applied to every case in which we wish to compare with one another physical effects which depend upon the same cause, that we may afterwards judge of them all by one, I shall dwell upon it a little while to give a full explanation of it. I suppose that the experiments intended to essay the spirituosity of different liquors distilled from wine, by the specific gravities of them, are made between the temperatures which answer to 32~ and 77~ of perature de cette liqueur, on prenoit des termes fort eloignes, comme la congelation et l'eau bouillante: tandis qu'au contraire, en se renfermant dans les temperatures ou les epreuves seroient faites, on approcheroit si fort de la verite, que les differences seroient imperceptibles. Cet exemple ayant quelque utilite par lui-meme, et pouvant etre applique a toute sorte de cas ou l'on compare entr'eux des effets physiques dependants d'une meme cause, pour juger ensuite de tous par un seul, je m'y arreterai afin de le mieux eclaircir. Je supposerai que les experiences destinees a eprouver les degres de spirituosite des diverses liqueurs distillees du vin, par leur pesanteur specifique, se feront entre les temperatures qui correspondent a 32~ et 77~ sur le Thermometre de FAHRENHEIT 7 Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 501 of FAHRENHEIT'S Thermometer, as this takes in all the ordinary cases. The question is, to examine which is the most convenient method of introducing into this measure an equation for the differences of the heat; an equation I mean which does not occasion useless difficulties. These temperatures 32~ and 77~ upon FAHRENHEIT'S Thermometer, correspond with 0 20~ upon the scale of which I have hitherto spoken, in which the boiling point is at 80~ and the freezing at 0. I shall speak of this scale, because it is the one I made use of in my experiments on the progressions of liquors distilled from wine in their dilatations by heat, and of which I have given an account in my work abovementioned(d). (d) Vol. I. p. 326. I suppose RENHEIT, ce qui renfermera tous les cas ordinaires. Il s'agit donc d'examiner quelle sera la route la plus convenable, pour introduire dans cette mesure une equation pour les differences de la chaleur, equation qui n'occasione pas de trop grandes difficultes, sans utilite dans la pratique. Ces temperatures 32~ et 77~ sur le Thermometre de FAHRENHEIT, correspondent a 0 et 20~ sur l'echelle dont j'ai parle jusq'ici, ou l'eau bouillante est a 80~ et l'eau dans la glace a 0. J'employerai encore cette echelle, parce que c'est celle dont je me suis servi dans les experiences que j'ai faites autrefois sur la marche des liqueurs distillees du vin, dans leurs dilatations pour la chaleur; experiences que j'ai rapportees dans mon ouvrage cite ci-dessus (d). (e) Tom. I. p. 326. Je 502 Mr. DE LUC on I suppose that, according to the usual method, seeking for the dilatations of the spirituous liquor by great differences of heat, one was to compare its bulk in ice that melts and in boiling water, and that not knowing, or not regarding, the different progressions of this liquor and quicksilver in their respective dilatations, nor the effect which the difference of spirituosity produces in this respect, one should consider these progressions as proportional. Here are the deviations one would be exposed to in the limits of the temperatures to which the rule should be applied, I mean between 0 and 20~. The numbers which are placed in the two columns of the spirituous liquors indicate the proportions of the augmentations of their bulks by the temperatures indicated by the quicksilver Thermometer. I have given to the total scale of these proportions the same number of Je suppose d'abord que suivant l'usage ordinaire, cherchant les dilatations de la liqueur spiritueuse par de grandes differences de chaleur, on comparat ses volumes dans la glace qui fond et dans l'eau bouillante; et qu'ignorant ou negligeant la difference de marche de cette liqueur et du mercure dans leurs dilatations, ainsi que l'effet que produit meme a cet egard la difference de spirituosite, on regardat ces marches comme proportionelles; voici les ecarts dans lesquels on tomberoit, dans les limites des temperatures ou l'on appliqueroit la regle; c'est a dire de 0 a 20~. Les nombres places dans les deux colonnes des liqueurs spiritueuses, marquent les rapports de leurs augmentations de volume par les temperatures indiquees sur le Thermometre de mercure. J'ai donne a l'echelle totale de ces rapports le meme Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 503 of equal parts as to the Thermometer, in the same interval of temperature, in order that their differences within this interval may be visible without calculation. Quicksilver Therm. Spirit of wine which Brandy, of 2 parts fires gunpowder. flegm and 3 of this spirit of wine. 80 80 80 ............... 20 16,5 15,9 15 12,2 11,8 10 7,9 7,7 5 3,9 3,8 0 0 0 One sees what deviations in general arise from the distance of the points of comparison when one comes to apply meme nombre de parties egales qu'a celle du Thermometre dans le meme intervalle de temperature, afin que les differences en dedans de cet intervalle s'appercoivent a l'oeil sans calcul. Thermometre de mercure. Esprit de vin qui brule Eau de vie saite de 2 parties de flegme, la poudre. sur 3 parties de cet esprit de vin. 80 80 80 ............... 20 16,5 15,9 15 12,2 11,8 10 7,9 7,7 5 3,9 3,8 0 0 0 On voit quels ecarts resultent en general de la distance des points de comparaison, 504 Mr. DE LUC on apply them to the temperatures in which one precisely wants the most exact proportions. One likewise may see that the difference of spirituosity only, occasions very sensible ones in the progressions of the two spirituous liquors, and that consequently one would commit a double error, if one were to consider the intermediate relations as proportional to the total relation, established between quicksilver and one of these liquors, only by observations made in very different temperatures. If, on the contrary, the fundamental experiments had been made at the probable limits of the observations, that is at 0 and at 20~ of the Thermometer, having then the real dilatation,between these two temperatures, of the spirituous liquor which served for the experiment, there would be only these small deviations, expressed by the comparison raison, quand on vient a les appliquer aux temperatures ou l'on avoit besoin precisement des rapports les plus exacts. On voit aussi que la difference seule de spirituosite, en produit de tres sensibles dans la marche des deux liqueurs spiritueuses; et que par consequent ont tomberoit doublement dans l'erreur, en regardant ces rapports intermediaires comme proportionnels au rapport total, etabli entre le mercure et une seule de ces liqueurs par des observations a de grandes differences de temperature. Si au contraire on eut fait les experiences fondamentales aux limites probables des observations, c'est a dire a 0 et a 20~ du Thermometre; ayant alors la dilatation reelle, entre ces deux temperatures, de la liqueur spiritueuse qui eu~ servi a l'experience, on n'auroit a craindre que les ecarts exprimes par les rapports des nombres Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 505 comparison of the following numbers, in which the total dilatation of the spirituous liquors is again divided into the same number of equal parts with that of the quicksilver in the Thermometer. Therm. Dilat. of spirit of wine. Dilat. of brandy. 20 20 20 15 14,8 14,8 10 9,6 9,7 5 4,7 4,8 0 0 0 The series of numbers which express the dilatations of the two spirituous liquors remain in the same proportions as in the first case, and consequently this is always the result of the experiment. But these proportions come already nombres suivans, ou la dilatation totale des liqueurs spiritueuses est encore divisee en un meme nombre de parties egales, que celle du mercure dans le Thermometre. Therm. Dilat. de l'esprit de vin. Dilat. de l'eau de vie. 20 20 20 15 14,8 14,8 10 9,6 9,7 5 4,7 4,8 0 0 0 Les suites des nombres qui experiment les dilatations des deux liqueurs spiritueuses restent dans les memes rapports que dans le premier cas; et par consequent c'est toujours le resultat de l'experience. Cependant ces rapports sont deja V O L. LXVIII. P p p si pres 506 Mr. DE LUC on ready so near to the progression of the quicksilver Thermometer itself, that the effect of the differences of the spirituosity almost entirely vanishes; so that there would be little error in taking as proportional to the total augmentation of bulk at 20~ of a certain liquor distilled from wine, the intermediate dilatations of every other liquor of the same kind. It is possible, however, still to lessen these errors, without having more than two terms of comparison by experience, by taking these terms within the limits of the probable observations, and that for two reasons. The first, that the more numerous observations will probably be made nearer the points where true proportions have been found by experience. The other, that the greatest deviation will be still more lessened, by throwing part of the errors beyond the two real points of comparison, in order si pres de la marche du Thermometre meme, que l'effet des differences de spirituosite s'evanouit presque entierement; et qu'il y auroit peu d'erreur a regarder comme proportionnelle a l'augmentation totale de volume a 20~ d'une certaine liqueur distillee du vin, les augmentations intermediares de toute autre liqueur du meme genre. On peut cependant diminuer encore ces erreurs, sans avoir plus de deux termes de comparaison par l'experience, en prenant ces termes en dedans meme des limites des observations probables; et cela par deux considerations. La premiere que les observations les plus nombreuses se trouveront probablement plus pres des vrais rapports fixes par l'experience; l'autre que le plus grand ecart diminuera encore, 2 en Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 507 order to lessen the accumulation of them within these points. If, for instance, instead of observing from 0 to 20~ the increase of the bulk of the spirituous liquor which is to serve as a rule, one observes it from 5~ to 15~, one will have the following proportions, in which the progression of the two liquors still continue within their real proportions, as I shall shew in the sequel. Therm. Dilat. of the spirits of wine. Dilat. of brandy. 20 20,2 20,1 15 15 15 10 9,8 9,9 5 5 5 0 0,3 0,3 It en rejettant une partie des erreurs au dela des deux points reels de comparaison, pour en diminuer l'accumulation entre ces points. Si par exemple, au lieu d'observer de 0 a 20~ l'augmentation de volume de la liqueur spiritueuse qui doit servir de regle, on l'observe de 5~ a 15~, on aura les rapports suivans, ou les marches des deux liqueurs restent encore dans leurs proportions reelles, ce que je montrerai dans la suite. Therm. Dilat. de l'esprit de vin. Dilat. de l'eau de vie. 20 20,2 20,1 15 15 15 10 9,8 9,9 5 5 5 0 0,3 0,3 P p p 2 On 508 Mr. DE LUC on It is evident then, that there is no longer any sensible error arising from the differences of spirituosity, which is already a capital advantage in the case proposed as an example; in which, since what one wants to know is the degree of spirituosity of a liquor, one cannot suppose it known before hand, in order to have regard to it in seeking for it. One likewise sees in general, that there is scarce any error to apprehend, even in considering the augmentation of the bulk of these liquors, or the diminution of their specific gravities, as being proportional to the indication of the quicksilver Thermometer. Here is then the method in which, according to this principle, I would construct the comparative Areometer, that is such a one as might be made the same every where. I chuse this example because it will afford me other applications of the general rule. Project On voit donc qu'il n'y a plus d'erreur sensible resultante des differences de spirituosite; et c'est d'abord un avantage capital dans le cas propose pour exemple, ou, cherchant a connoitre le degre de spirituosite d'une liqueur, on ne peut pas la supposer d'avance pour y avoir egard en la mesurant. On voit aussi en general, qu'il n'y a presque plus d'erreur a craindre, meme en regardant l'augmentation de volume de ces liqueuns, ou leur diminution de pesanteur specifique, comme proportionnelles a l'indication du Thermometre de mercure. Voici d'apres ce principe, comment je construirois l'Areometre comparable; c'est-a-dire celui qu'on pourroit faire de meme partout. Je choisis cet exemple, parce qu'il me fournira encore d'autres applications de la regle. Id Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 509 Project of a comparable Areometer. I would use an Areometer of the most common construction(f). It is an instrument nearly resembling the glass of a Thermometer; that is, a tube with a hollow ball at one end. The property of this instrument is, that it sinks the deeper into liquids, the more their specific gravity decrease. But that it may become a common measure of this specific gravity, certain fixed points and determined degrees must be ascertained upon it. I would make this Areometer of glass, as being the substance which undergoes the least change of bulk by heat, and the changes of which are the most regular, at (f) See fig. 3. and its explanation. least Idee d'un Areometre comparable. J'emploierois la forme d'Areometre qui est la plus commune (f). C'est un instrument a peu pres semblable au verre d'un Thermometre, c'est a dire compose d'une boule creuse, et d'un tube qui lui est joint. La propriete de cet instrument est de s'ensoncer d'autant plus dans les liquides, que leur pesanteur specifique est moindre. Mais pour qu'il devienne une mesure commune de cette pesanteur specifique, il faut qu'il ait des points fixes et des degres determines. Je le ferois de verre; comme etant la matiere qui eprouve le moins de changement dans son volume par la chaleur, et dont les changemens sont les plus regu(f) Voyez la fig. 3. et son explication. liers; 510 Mr. DE LUC on least of all the substances which are not affected by humidity. I would always use flint-glass, that its changes in this respect might be more uniform in all the Areometers. Its ball should be one inch and an half in diameter, and there should be at the bottom of it a little hollow cylinder, which should communicate with it, and contain the ballast, in order that it might be able to keep upright, at the other end, a branch so much the longer; which will be easily understood. This ball should not be very thick, any more than the superior branch on which its divisions should be marked. The different thicknesses of this branch, that is, its different external diameters, will produce the different sensibilities of the instrument. The less the diameter will be, the more will the Areometer liers; du moins entre les matieres que l'humidite n'affecte pas. Ce verre seroit toujours le flint-glass, afin que ses changemens a cet egard fussent plus uniformes dans tous les Areometres. Je donnerois a sa boule un pouce et demi de diametre: et elle auroit a son fond un petit cylindre creux qui communiqueroit avec elle, et renfermeroit le left; afin de pouvoir maintenir de bout, au cote oppose, une branche d'autant plus longue; ce qu'on sentira aisement. Je ferois cette boule peu epaisse, ainsi que le tube superieur, ou la branche sur laquelle les divisions devroient etre marquees. Les differentes epaisseurs de cette branche, c'est a dire ses differens diametres exterieurs, feront les differentes sensibilites de l'instrument: plus son diameter Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 511 ter sink by an equal augmentation of the spirituosity of the liquor. Unless the branch be perfectly cylindrical, the measure would be irregular. It may be a thin brass tube silvered over, or a silver tube, cemented to the ball of glass. Such metal tubes are easily drawn through holes as wires; so that one might be sure to have them cylindrical. The dilatation of that tube by heat, besides that it is too inconsiderable to be taken notice of, would combine itself with that of the liquor, of which I shall speak hereafter. I would ballast the instrument with quicksilver, in order to have it always stand upright in the same manner; and of this I would put in such a quantity that the most spirituous liquor, being heated as much as it can be in the metre sera petit, plus l'Areometre s'enfoncera pour une meme augmentation de spirituosite de la liqueur. Cette branche devroit etre parfaitement cylindrique; sans quoi elle introduiroit de l'irregularite dans la mesure. On pourra la faire d'une tube de cuivre argente ou d'argent, fort mince, cimente avec la boule. On fait fort bien ces petits tuyaux de metal a la filiere; ainsi on seroit sur de les avoir cylindriques; et quant a l'effet qu'y produiroit la chaleur, il peut etre compte pour rien. D'ailleurs il se combinera avec celui que produira cette cause sur la liqueur, et dont je parlerai ci-apres. Je lesterois l'instrument avec du mercure, pour qu'il se tint toujours de bout de la meme maniere; et je l'y mettrois en telle quantite, que la liqueur la plus spiritueuse, echauffee autant qu'elle pourra l'etre dans les experiences, laissat enfoncer 512 Mr. DE LUC on the experiments, may let the Areometer sink nearly to the top of its branch. This branch should at the same time be long enough that the less spirituous liquors, wine for instance, reduced to congelation, may let a small part of it be immersed. The instrument being thus prepared, I would take some weak spirit of wine dilated with one part of water on six parts of spirits of wine which fires gunpowder or linen which is steeped in. I would then determine the specific gravity of this spirit of wine at the temperature of 10~ upon my Thermometer, or 54~1/2 of FAHRENHEIT'S, by means of a very nice hydrostatical balance. This liquor, undetermined at first, and which I should call only weak spirit of wine, on account of the intermination of the spirit which burns linen, will be determined as soon as a first Areometer shall have been constructed foncer l'Areometre jusques pres du haut de sa branche; qui devroit etre en meme tems assez longue, pour quo la liqueur la moins spiritueuse, le vin par exemple, reduit a la congelation, en laissat encore enfoncer une petite partie. L'instrument ainsi prepare, je prendrois un esprit de vin foible, compose d'1 partie d'eau sur 6 parties d'esprit de vin qui brule la poudre, ou qui enflamme le linge dont il est mouille. Je determinerois la pesanteur specifique de cet esprit de vin, tandis qu'il seroit a la temperature 10~ de mon Thermometre, ou 541/2~ de celui de FAHRENHEIT, en employant pour cette determination une balance hydrostatique fort delicate. Cette liqueur, d'abord indeterminee, et que j'appellerai seulement esprit de vin foible, a cause de l'indetermination de l'esprit de vin qui brule le linge, sera determinee des qu'on aura fait un premier Areometre par Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 513 constructed on this plan. It will be then a spirit of wine, which, in the aforesaid temperature, being essayed by the hydrostatic balance, will weigh so much a cube foot: and every instrument-maker, who shall undertake to construct such Areometers, will be obliged to begin by composing this fixed liquor by the help of the hydrostatic balance, in order to construct his standard. And indeed all I have farther to say upon the construction of the scale of this instrument, relates merely to a standard, to which the Areometers in use may be compared in order to form a scale. For this purpose they may be dipped successively in two liquids of very different specific gravities, and such that the standard may indicate those specific weights by whole numbers of degrees, the difference of which may admit of a division into aliquot parts: it will be very easy so to modify par cette methode; ce sera de l'esprit de vin, qui, etant a la temperature susdite, et eprouve a la balance hydrostatique, pesera tant par pied cube. Des lors tout faiseur d'instrumens qui voudra construire originalement des Areometres, devra premierement composer cette liqueur, par l'epreuve de la balance hydrostatique, pour construire son etalon. Car tout ce qui suit ne regardera plus en effet qu'un etalon, auquel les Areometres d'usage seront simplement compares pour former leur echelle. A cet effet on les mettra successivement ensemble dans deux liqueurs de pesanteur specifique fort differentes, et telles que l'etalon indique ces pesanteurs specifiques par des nombres entiers de degres, dont la difference soit susceptible d'etre divisee en parties aliquotes. Il sera fort aise de composer ces deux liqueurs par V O L. LXVIII. * Q q q des 514 Mr. DE LUC on modify those two liquids by mixtures. And when the two points at which the intended Areometer stands in the two liquors, shall be marked upon it, the interval between them may be divided into the number of degrees indicated by the standard. Here the two points of comparison cannot be too distant from each other, at least if the tubes of the two compared Areometers are cylindrical; for then their intermediate immersions will always be proportionate to the observed immersions. I point out this, in order to give an example of the instances in which the considerations, that are the object of this part, do not take place. It is the same as that in which Thermometers made of the same liquid are divided by comparison. I return to the standard Areometer. I would dip it into this known spirit of wine, whilst it is at the des melanges: et quand on aura marque sur l'Areometre a construire les deux points ou il se sera tenu dans les deux liqueurs, on en divisera l'intervalle dans le meme nombre de degres indique par l'etalon. Ici les deux points de comparaison ne sauroient etre trop distans l'un de l'autre; si du moins les tubes des deux Areometres compares sont cylindriques: car alors leurs enfoncemens intermediares seront toujours proportionnels aux enfoncemens observes. Je le fais remarquer pour donner un exemple des cas ou les considerations qui font l'objet de cette partie n'ont pas lieu. C'est le meme que celui ou l'on divise par comparaison des Thermometres faits d'un meme liquide. Je reviens a l'Areometre etalon. Je le plongerois dans cet esprit de vin connu, tandis qu'il seroit a la temperature fixee; et je marquerois avec un fil sur sa branche, Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 515 the fixed temperature, and would mark upon its branch, with a thread, the point to which it sinks: afterwards I would mix three parts of water with seven parts of this same spirit of wine, to make a sort of brandy stronger than the common; it would be the three-fifths of Languedoc, which consists of two parts water and three parts spirit of wine that fires gun-powder. I would again dip the Areometer into it, at the same temperature, and would likewise mark this new point with a thread. One may see that, according to the principle I have above established, I take points of comparison which are within the limits of the greatest and smallest spirituosity of the liquors to be tried, in order to obtain a scale of equal parts, free from any sensible error: and in this case that precaution is very necessary; for the degrees of spirituosity branche, le point ou il s'enfonceroit. Puis je melerois a 7 parties de cet esprit de vin, 3 parties d'eau, pour en faire une eau de vie plus forte que l'eau de vie commune; ce seroit le trois quints de Languedoc, qui doit etre 2 parties d'eau sur 3 parties d'esprit de vin qui brule la poudre. J'y plongerois de nouveau l'Areometre dans la meme temperature, et je marquerois aussi ce nouveau point par un fil. On voit que suivant le principe que j'ai etabli ci-devant, je prends des points de comparaison en dedans de la plus grande et de la moindre spirituosite des liqueurs qu'on eprouvera, pour obtenir une echelle en parties egales, sans erreur sensible: et cela est bien necessaire ici; car les degres de spirituosite ne suivent Q q q 2 pas 516 Mr. DE LUC on rituosity do not follow those of specific gravity, as I shall explain hereafter. The points thus indicated upon the branch, having determined principles, will be the fixed points of the Areometer. The interval between them shall be divided into 30 equal parts, each of which will represent 1/30th of the total effect of the added water upon the specific gravity of the liquor. The sequel will shew, that it is equally for the conveniency of trade, and of the workman who shall divide the scale, that I have chosen this number. I suppose that the standard will be constructed in such a manner, that the difference of the sinkings shall be considerable enough for this purpose, which may be obtained by making the branch thin enough. One may afterwards, if it be thought fit, for Areometers of common pas ceux de pesanteur specifique, comme je le dirai ci-apres. Les points indiques ainsi sur la branche, ayant des principes determines, seront les points fixes de l'Areometre. On en divisera l'intervalle en 30 parties, qui seront des 30mes de l'effet total de l'eau ajoutee, sur la pesanteur specifique de la liqueur. On verra dans la suite que c'est autant pour la commodite du commerce, que pour celle de l'ouvrier qui divisera l'echelle, que j'ai choisi ce nombre de parties. Je suppose que l'on construira l'etalon de maniere que la difference d'enfoncement soit assez grande pour cet effet; ce qu'on peut obtenir en faisant la branche assez mince. On pourra ensuite si l'on veut, pour les Areometres d'usage peu 2 delicat, Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 517 mon use, and in which it is not necessary that the branch should be so long, divide the fundamental interval into 15 parts, which will then be double degrees. Having in this manner fixed points and determined degrees upon the Areometer, the next thing is to chuse a convenient place for the 0 of its scale; and the best will be that by which all the essays of the liquors shall be expressed with the same sign. To effect this, one may take one of the wines of which brandy is most commonly made, and, reducing it to the temperature of water in ice, dip the Areometer in it, observing how much higher it will stand than the inferior fixed point. This excess of emersion, compared with the fundamental scale, and reduced to the nearest number of degrees which will be an aliquot part of it, will be a proportional quantity fixed for ever, which will be added to the scale below the inferior delicat, et ou l'on ne voudra pas la branche si longue, diviser l'intervalle fondamental en 15 parties, qui seront alors des doubles degres. Ayant ainsi des point fixes et des degres determines sur l'Areometre, il faut choisir une place commode pour son zero; et le mieux est de le placer de maniere que toutes les epreuves des liqueurs puissent etre exprimees avec le meme signe. Pour cet effet on pourra prendre un des vins donc on fait le plus communement l'eau de vie, et le reduisant a la temperature de l'eau dans la glace, y plonger l'Areometre, observant de combien il s'enfoncera de moins que le point fixe inferieur. Ce surplus d'emersion, compare a l'intervalle fondamental, et reduit au nombre le plus prochain de degres qui se trouvera une partie aliquote de cet intervalle, sera une quantite fixee pour toujours, qu'il faudra ajouter a l'echelle au dessous du 518 Mr. DE LUC on ferior fixed point, and determine the place of o. I suppose, for instance, that this excess of emersion should be about 15~, or the half of the fundamental scale: I would then fix it at this number; and in that case one should constantly add half the fundamental distance below the inferior fixed point, and from these begin to count the degrees. I mean that the o would be at the bottom of the whole scale, the inferior fixed point would be at 15~, the superior at 45~, and the scale could be prolonged at the top as much as should be necessary for the essays of the most spirituous liquors. It is after this manner that the o of FAHRENHEIT'S Thermometer is now determined; and that being placed at 32~ below the inferior fixed point, the greater part of the observations are expressed upon it in positive degrees; so that it is only in extraordinary cases that they are affected with the minus sign. du point fixe inferieur. Je suppose par exemple que ce surplus d'emersion se trouvat de pres de 15~, ou de la moitie de l'echelle fondamentalle; je le fixerois a ce nombre; et ainsi j'ajouterois toujours une moitie de l'intervalle fondamental au dessous du point fixe inferieur, pour commencer de la a compter les degres de l'echelle. Ainsi le o seroit tout au bas, le point fixe inferieur seroit a 15~; le point fixe superieur a 45~; et l'echelle seroit prolongee dans le haut autant qu'il seroit necessaire pour fournir a l'essai des liqueurs les plus spiritueuses. C'est ainsi que le zero du Thermometre de FAHRENHEIT est a present determine, et que se trouvant ainsi place a 32~ au dessous du point fixe inferieur, la majeure partie des observations y est exprimee en degres positifs; et qu'il faut des cas extraordinaires pour qu'elles soyent accompagnees du signe moins. Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 519 sign. It would be convenient to pay a regard to this in all instruments, when no other reasons interfere. I come now to the correction for the differences of the heat. I would take a liquor of mean spirituosity, as for instance a mixture of one part of water and seven parts of the spirits of wine determined by the hydrostatic balance: into this liquor, reduced to the temperature of 45~ of FAHRENHEIT, I would plunge the Areometer already graduated, and observe the point to which it sinks. I would afterwards heat the liquor to 65~, and again observe the sinking of the Areometer. One might likewise make use of the scale of my Thermometer, and observe the sinkings at 5 and 15 of my degrees, which would come sensibly to the same. This moins. Il seroit commode d'avoir egard a cela dans tous les instrumens, quand rien d'allieurs ne s'y oppose. Je viens a la correction pour les differences de la chaleur. Prenant une liqueur de spirituosite moyenne, comme par exemple le melange d'1 partie d'eau a 7 parties de l'esprit de vin fixe par la balance hydrostatique, je plongerois l'Areometre, deja gradue, dans cette liqueur reduite a la temperature de 45~ de FAHRENHEIT, et j'observerois le point ou il s'enfonceroit: j'echaufferois ensuite la liqueur a 65~, et j'y observerois encore l'enfoncement de l'Areometre. On pourroit aussi, en employant l'echelle de mon Thermometre, observer les enfoncemens a 5 et a 15 de mes degres, ce qui reviendroit sensiblement au meme. Cette 520 Mr. DE LUC on This observation being made, one may conceive that it would be easy to form a table in which one might express, in degrees of the Areometer, the effects of the differences of heat corresponding to each degree of one or other of the Thermometers, setting out from a fixed point; since the effect correspondent to each degree of the Thermometer, will be looked upon as proportionate to that which shall have been found in the fundamental observation. But I would prefer another method, which I have recommended in my work(g), because I have found it of great use in practice; that is, to make a particular scale for the Thermometer intended for these experiments, by changing the number of the degrees contained between (g) Vol. I. p. 390. the Cette observation faite, on comprend qu'il seroit aise de former une table, dans laquelle on exprimeroit, en degres de l'Areometre, les effets des differences de chaleur, correspondans a chaque degre de l'un ou de l'autre des Thermometres, a partir d'un point fixe; car l'effet correspondant a chaque degre du Thermometre, sera regarde comme proportionnel a celui qu'on aura trouve dans l'observation fondamentale. Mais je prefererois une autre methode, que j'ai recommandee dans mon ouvrage (g), parce que je l'ai trouvee d'une tres grande commodite dans la pratique; c'est de faire une echelle particuliere pour le Thermometre destine a ces epreuves; en changeant le nombre des degres renfermes entre ses points fixes, (g) Tom. I. p. 390. pour Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 521 the fixed points, in order to establish an easy proportion between them, and the degrees of the Areometer, and that thus one might make the correction without tables. It would be easy, for instance, to make the degrees of the Thermometer answer to quarters of degrees of the Areometer; for in that case, reckoning them from a fixed point, one would only have to correct the observations made upon the Areometer, by a quarter of the number of degrees indicated upon the Thermometer, which seems to me very convenient: and as it is always easier to add than to subtract, I would place the o of this Thermometer at the point of the greatest ordinary heat of the air, or about 24~ of my Thermometer, and 86~ of FAHRENHEIT'S: for then, reckoning the degrees of the Thermometer downwards, one should only add them to the indication of the Areometer; since the cooling of the liquor pour qu'ils eussent un rapport simple avec ceux de l'Areometre, et qu'on put ainsi se passer de tables. Il seroit fort aise, par exemple, que les degres du Thermometre correspondissent a des quarts de degres de l'Areometre; et alors, les comptant depuis un point fixe, on n'auroit qu'a corriger l'observation faite sur l'Areometre, par le quart du nombre des degres qu'indiqueroit le Thermometre; ce qui me paroitroit fort commode. Et comme il est toujours plus aise d'additionner que de soustraire, je placerois le zero de ce Thermometre au point de la plus grande chaleur ordinaire de l'air, c'est a dire aux environs de 24~ de mon Thermometre, ou 86~ de FAHRENHEIT; car alors, comptant les degres du Thermometre en descendant, il faudroit les ajouter a l'indication de l'AreomeV O L. LXVIII. R r r tre; 522 Mr. DE LUC on liquor from this fixed point of temperature would lessen the effect of the spirituosity in the immediate indication of the Areometer, comparatively with what it should be found at this determined point. I have here also taken, for the comparison of the indication of the Thermometer with the density of the same liquor differently warmed, terms which are within the extremes of the common observations, because here several causes are combined in the same effect. 1. The progression of the dilatations of spirituous liquids comparatively to quicksilver. 2. The different progressions of the liquids of different degrees of spirituosity. 3. The change of bulk of the instrument itself in liquors of different temperatures. It became then necessary to avoid taking the fundamental terms of comparison very wide of each other, tre; puisque le refroidissement depuis ce point fixe de temperature, diminueroit l'effet de la spirituosite sur l'indication immediate de l'Areometre, comparativement a ce qu'on la trouveroit a ce point determine. J'ai pris encore ici pour la comparaison de l'indication du Thermometre avec la densite d'une meme liqueur differemment chaude, des termes qui se trouvent en dedans des extremes des observations ordinaires; parce qu'ici plusieurs causes se combinent dans un meme effet, savoir, 1~. La marche des dilatations des liqueurs spiritueuses comparativement au mercure. 2~. La difference de marche des liqueurs de different degre de spirituosite. 3~. Les changemens de volume de l'instrument lui meme dans les liqueurs differemment chaudes. Il falloit donc eviter de prendre les termes fondamentaux de comparaison a une grande distance, de peur de Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 523 other, lest the error arising from considering the immersions of the Areometer, occasioned by the changes of temperature of the liquor, as being exactly proportionate to the indications of the Thermometer, should thereby be rendered sensible. Every part of the Instrument being thus determined, it will be easy to construct it every where in an uniform manner. Experiments will then be made, and the degree of spirituosity which liquors in trade, under certain denominations, ought to have, will be fixed: spirit of wine, for instance, brandy named three-fifths in Languedoc, that which is called proof of Holland, or any other. These points being known, as the standard of the precious metals fixed by the different States that coin money, there will then be established a proportionate value of the degrees of spirituosity, which should be found de rendre sensible l'erreur qui resultera toujours de considerer les enfoncemens de l'Areometre provenans des variations de la chaleur de la liqueur, comme exactement proportionnels aux indications du Thermometre. Toutes les parties de l'Instrument etant ainsi determinees, il sera aise de le construire partout d'une maniere uniforme. On fera alors des experiences, et l'on fixera a certains points de l'Areometre, le degre de spirituosite que devront avoir les liqueurs attendues dans le commerce sous certaines denominations; l'esprit de vin, par exemple, l'eau de vie nommee trois quints en Languedoc, celle qu'on nomme a l'epreuve de Hollande, ou telle autre: et ces points etant connus, comme on connoit les titres des metaux precieux fixes par les divers Etats qui battent monoye, il s'etablira aussi une valeur proportionnelle des degres de spirituR r r 2 osite 524 Mr. DE LUC on found more or less than the expected degree, as there is a price for the karat of gold or denier of silver, by which the seller and buyer might always be able to do themselves justice. For instance, every degree less than the point fixed for the common spirit of wine would be 1/70 to be made good by the vender, that is about 11/2 per cent. in the language of trade, and 1 per cent. only on brandy named three-fiths. When this Areometer should have come into general use, the Police of the places in which the trade of spirituous liquors is carried on, might take cognizance of it, and keep the public standard of the Areometer, as they keep the standards of weights and measures. The inspectors of that trade would thus have fixed modes of essaying, and the public all the necessary security. There osite de plus ou de moins que le degre attendn; comme il y a un prix pour le karat de l'or et le denier de l'argent: par ou le vendeur et l'acheteur pourront toujours se faire justice. Par exemple, chaque degre de moins que le point fixe pour l'esprit de vin ordinaire, seroit 1/70 a honifier par le vendeur, ou environ 11/2 pour cent en terme de commerce; et 1 pour cent seulement sur l'eau de vie trois quints. Quand cet Areometre seroit devenu d'un usage un peu general, la Police des lieux ou se fait le commerce des liqueurs spiritueuses, pourroit en prendre connoissance, et conserver l'etalon public de l'Areometre, comme elle tient en depot ceux des mesures et des poids. Les inspecteurs preposes auroient ainsi des epreuves fixes, et le Public toute la certitude necessaire sur cet objet. It Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 525 There would be little advantage, with respect to exactness, in making of spirit of wine the Thermometer in tended for these essays; though its variation would be more exactly conformable to the effects of heat upon liquors of the same species: for it has been seen how far, by the method I proposed, the differences vanish; and, on the contrary, there would be a loss on two accounts: the one, that this Thermometer would be much less sensible than the quicksilver one; the other, that it is much more difficult to construct it, when one wants to make it upon fixed principles, and this the rather as good workmen have lost the habit of making them. One sees, moreover, that the same Areometer may (mutatis mutandis) be used to measure the saltness of water. Upon which I shall only observe, that the manner indicated of fixing the correction for the heat, would be still more Il y auroit peu a gagner pour l'exactitude, a faire d'esprit de vin le Thermometre destine a ces epreuves, quoique sa marche fut dans le fond plus conforme aux effets de la chaleur sur des liqueurs de meme espece; car on a vu a quel degre la methode que je propose a fait disparoitre les differences: et il y auroit a perdre au contraire a deux egards, l'un que ce Thermometre seroit bien moins sensible que celui de mercure, l'autre qu'il est bien plus difficile a construire, lorsqu'on veut le faire sur des principes certains; d'autant plus que les bons ouvriers ont perdu l'habitude d'en faire. On voit au reste que le meme instrument peut etre employe a mesurer la salure de l'eau, mutatis mutandis. Sur quoi je ferai remarquer seulement, que la maniere indiquee de fixer la correction pour la chaleur y seroit d'autant plus necessaire, qu'il y a plus de difference dans la marche des effets de la chaleur, 526 Mr. DE LUC on more necessary in that case, as there is a still greater difference in the progressions of the effects of heat, between waters differently salted, than there is between liquors that have a different degree of spirituosity; as may be seen by the experiments upon this subject which I have explained in my work(h). Whatever approximation the method which I have applied to the construction of the Areometer may give towards indicating, by equally distant degrees upon the instrument, equal differences of spirituosity or saltness of the liquids into which it is dipped; it will still be true that it will only shew equal differences in the specific (h) Vol. I. p. 271.-One may also see, in the description of fig. 3, the method of applying this instrument to measure in general the specific gravity of all liquids in which it can sink. gravity chaleur, entre les eaux differemment salees, qu'entre les liqueurs differemment spiritueuses; comme on peut le voir par les experiences que j'ai rapportees a ce sujet dans mon ouvrage (h). Quelque approximation que fournisse la methode que j'ai appliquee a la construction de l'Areometre, pour indiqueur, par des degres egalement distans sur l'instrument, des differences egales entr'elles de spirituosite ou de salure des liquides dans lesquels on le plongera; il sera toujours vrai sans doute, qu'il ne montrera exactement que des differences egales dans la pesanteur specifique de ces (h) Tom. I. p. 271.-Voyez aussi dans la description de la fig. 3. le moyen d'employer cet instrument pour mesurer en general la pesanteur specifique des liquides ou il peut s'enfoncer. liquides, Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 527 gravity of the liquids, to which the equal differences of saltness or spirituosity will not exactly answer. But the instrument being constructed upon fixed principles, one might afterwards seek for the true laws which the different intensities of these causes follow, when the changes in the specific gravity are equal between them; as I have already done (from an idea of Mr. LE SAGE'S) for the real differences of heat correspondant to degrees equally distant upon the Thermometer(i); a determination which would be useful in the particular cases in which the approximation given by the instrument would not be sufficient. I have not yet executed this instrument; nor indeed is it necessary that I should undertake to do it, in a country (i) Vol. I. p. 285. where liquides, auxquelles ne correspondront pas aussi exactement des differences egales de salure ou de spirituosite. Mais l'instrument etant construit sur des principes fixes, on pourroit ensuite chercher les vraies loix que suivent les differences d'intensite de ces causes auxquelles correspondent des changemens egaux entr'eux dans la pesanteur specifique; comme je lai fait (d'apres une idee de Mr LE SAGE) pour les differences reelles de chaleur qui produisent des degres egalement distans sur le Thermometre (i); fixation qui serviroit dans quelques cas particuliers, ou l'approximation fournie par l'instrument ne seroit pas suffisante. Je n'ai pas encore pu executer cet Areometre; et il est peu necessaire meme que je l'entreprenne, dans un pays ou tant d'artistes sont en etat de me com(i) Tom. I. p. 285. prendre 528 Mr. DE LUC on where so many artists will understand me by this description, and may even supply what I have omitted. And should any one be desirous of undertaking it, I would willingly assist him by communicating to him some ideas for the execution, which would have made this paper too long. Conclusion with respect to physical measures in general. Though the Areometer is useful in itself, the chief reason of my dwelling upon it was to give an example of the general rule I have before established. Here are in this case only three physical effects, the degrees of which are not proportionate to their apparent causes, and which are united under the appearance of one single prendre sur cette description, et de suppleer meme a ce que je pourrois avoir ommis: et je me ferois d'ailleurs un plaisir d'aider le premier qui voudra l'entreprendre, en lui communiquant quelques idees de detail dans l'execution, qui auroient trop allonge ce memoire. Conclusion sur les Mesures physiques en general. Quoique l'Areometre ait de l'utilite par lui meme, je me suis principalement arrete a expliquer ses principes, pour donner un exemple de la regle generalo que j'ai etablie. Voila, dans un seul cas, trois effets physiques dont les degres ne sont pas proportionnels a ceux de leurs causes, reunis meme sous l'apparence d'un seul, 2 savoir Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 529 single effect, namely, the different sinking of the Areometer. In the first place, it will not always sink in liquors of different densities in general, proportionally to these densities, on account of the changes of its own bulk by heat, and the possible irregularity of its branch. Secondly, it will not sink in proportion to the changes of temperature of the liquor, because the changes of density of the latter will not follow the same law as the changes of temperature. I have already mentioned these two causes of error; but here is a third. The Areometer will not sink exactly in the inverse ratio of the quantities of flegm; because the specific gravity of the liquor does not follow the proportion of these quantities. It has an increasing progression; and here the immediate cause of this disproportion, which is evident, may give us an idea of what takes place savoir l'enfoncement different de l'Areometre. D'abord il ne s'enfoncera pas toujours dans les liqueurs de differentes densites en general, proportionnellement a ces densites; a cause de ses propres changemens de volume par la chaleur, et de l'irregularite possible de son tube. Ensuite il ne s'enfoncera pas proportionnellement aux changemens de temperature de la liqueur; parce que les changemens de densite de celle-ci ne suivront pas la meme loi que les changemens de temperature. J'ai deja indique ces deux causes d'erreur; mais en voici une troisieme. L'Areometre ne s'enfoncera pas exactement en raison inverse des quantites de flegme; parce que la pesanteur specifique de la liqueur ne suit pas le rapport de ces quantites; elle a une marche croissante. Et ici, la cause prochaine de cette disproportion, qui est evidente, peut nous donner une idee de ce qui se passe V O L. LXVIII. S s s dans 530 Mr. DE LUC on place in Nature, and hinders physical effects from appearing proportional to their causes, in our observations. The spirit and the flegm penetrate each other; that is to say, the bulk of the mixture is a little less than the sums of the two bulks before the mixture; and so the specific gravity, which is the weight or the quantity of matter under a certain bulk, increases a little in the mixture, comparatively with the mean specific gravity of the component parts. This penetration seems to me to give us some idea of the hidden causes in bodies, which modify, unknown to us, the effects of the apparent causes, and prevent the observed effects being proportional to these. One must therefore, in order to have equal degrees in the Areometer, without sensible error upon the spirituosity dans la Nature, et qui empeche les effets physiques d'etre proportionnels a leurs causes dans nos observations. L'esprit et le flegme se penetrent; c'est a dire que le volume du melange est un peu moindre que la somme des deux volumes avant le melange: ainsi la pesanteur specifique, qui est le poids ou la quantite de matiere, sous un certain volume, augmente un peu dans le melange, comparativement a la pesanteur specifique moyenne des composans. Cette penetration represente assez bien ce me semble les causes caehees dans les corps, qui modifient a notre insu les effets des causes apparentes, et empechent que les effets observes ne leur soyent proportionnels. Il faut donc, pour avoir des degres egaux dans l'Areometre sans erreur sensible sur la spirituosite qu'il doit mesurer, fixer ces degres par la comparaison d'effets observes Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 531 osity that it is intended to measure, fix these degrees by the comparison of effects observed within the limits of the common observations: and this is the securest way in practice; for how could one make a scale follow all these different laws? This is what I proposed to apply to physical effects of all kinds which have unequal degrees, by equal differences in the intensity of their causes, or by equal degrees of some co-effect more easily observed, and which should be made use of to determine the other. In order to make the advantage of this method more conspicuous, I will now apply it to the co-effects the most different which exist perhaps in Nature, I mean the augmentations of the bulks of quicksilver and water by the same augmentations of heat. I will observes en dedans des limites des observations ordinaires; et c'est le chemin le plus sur dans la pratique; car comment pourroit on faire suivre a une echelle toutes ces differentes loix. Voila ce que je me proposois d'appliquer aux effets physiques de tout genre, qui ont des degres inegaux, par des differences egales d'intensite de leurs causes, ou par des degres egaux de quelque co-effet, plus aise a observer, et qui devroit servir a determiner les autres. Pour rendre l'utilite de cette methode plus frappante, je vais l'appliquer aux co-effets les plus disparates peut-etre qu'il y ait dans la Nature; je veux dire les augmentations de volume du mercure et de l'eau, par les memes augmentations de la chaleur. S s s 2 Je 532 Mr. DE LUC on I will only put the same cases I have explained before for spirituous liquors: the first, in which the actual trial has been made at 80~ of the Thermometer, the second, in which it is supposed to be made at 20~, both compared with 0; and the third, in which the trial is made at 5~ and 15~. The deviations of the three cases between the temperatures of 0 and 20~ (reputed to be the limits of the common observations) are as follow: 1st case. Je poserai simplement les memes cas que j'ai expliques ci-devant pour les liqueurs spiritueuses; le premier ou l'epreuve actuelle a ete faite a 80~ du Thermometre; le second ou elle est censee faite a 20~; l'un et l'autre comparativement a 0: et le troisieme ou cette epreuve est faite a 5~ et a 15~. Les ecarts des trois cas, 3 entre les temperatures de 0 et 20~, censees etre les limites des observations ordinaires, sont comme suit. <inferred>1er</inferred> cas. Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 533 1st case. 2d case. 3d case. Therm. Dil. of water. Therm. Dil. of water. Therm. Dil. of wat. 80 80 ....... 20 4,1 20 20 20 27,5 15 1,6 15 7,8 15 15 10 0,2 10 1 10 8 5 -0,4 5 -1,9 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 +7 In the change of the expression of the dilatations of the water in the third case, as in the corresponding case for the spirituous liquors above mentioned, it was necessary to consider as 0 or x the bulk of the matter corresponding with 5~ upon the quicksilver Thermometer, since it is with 1er cas. 2d cas. 3me cas. Therm. Dilat. de l'eau. Therm. Dilat. de l'eau. Therm. Dilat. de l'eau. 80 80 ........ 20 4,1 20 20 20 27,5 15 1,6 15 7,8 15 15 10 0,2 10 1 10 8 5 -0,4 5 -1,9 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 +7 Dans le changement de l'expression des dilatations de l'eau au 3me cas, comme dans le cas correspondant ci-devant pour les liqueurs spiritueuses, il a fallu l'abord considerer comme zero ou z le volume de l'eau correspondant a 5~ sur le Ther534 Mr. DE LUC on with this point that its bulk at the temperature 15~ is compared. Making afterwards equal to 15-5=10 the number of the equal parts which measure the augmentation of the bulk of water, instead of 1,6+0,4=2, which was the number in the first case taken from the experiment, I have changed all these terms in the proportion of 2 to 10, which has preserved the same proportions between them. After this the expression of the Thermometer continuing the same, that is, its 0 or x remaining 5~ lower than the inferior points of the actual comparison, in order to have, without calculation, the deviations within and without those points of comparison, it was necessary to add 5 to all the first numbers which express the real dilatations of the water. I might have subtracted 5 from each indication of the Thermometer, which would have come to the same. It will be easily Thermometre de mercure; puisque c'est avec ce point que son volume a la temperature 15~ est compare. Faisant ensuite egal a 15-5=10 le nombre des parties egales qui mesure l'augmentation de volume de l'eau, au lieu de 1,6+0,4 =2 qu'etoit ce nombre dans le premier cas tire de l'experience, j'ai change tous les termes dans le rapport de 2 a 10; ce qui a conserve les memes proportions entr'eux. Apres quoi, l'expression du Thermometre restant la meme, c'est a dire son zero ou z restant de 5~ plus bas que le point inferieur de comparaison actuelle; pour avoir sans calcul les deviations au dedans et au dehors de ces points de comparaison, il a fallu ajouter 5 a tous les nombres qui expriment les dilatations reelles de l'eau. J'aurois pu retrancher 5 a chaque indication du Thermometre, ce qui seroit revenu au meme. On verra aisement je crois que c'est la la route Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 535 easily seen, I believe, that this was the road to follow in order to transpose, in the third case, those proportions found by experiment, which immediately constitute the second. I proceeded in the same manner in the example drawn from the two spirituous liquors. As to the second case, as well for these liquors as for the water, it is evident, that the change of the scale which measures their dilatations, occasions no change in the proportions of the terms found by experiment. I repeat it, I do not believe one has ever observed, in any case, two co-effects of the same cause which follow more disproportioned progressions, than these dilatations of quicksilver and water by the same augmentations of heat: and yet one sees, that by this method (I mean by observing the real proportions of the co-effects within the ordinary limits of the intensities of the causes) one route qu'il falloit suivre, pour transporter dans le 3me cas, ces rapports trouves par l'experience qui forment immediatement le premier. J'ai procede de la meme maniere dans l'exemple tire des deux liqueurs spiritueuses. Quant au second cas, tant pour ces liqueurs que pour l'eau, il est evident que le changement de l'echelle qui mesure leurs dilatations, n'en apporte aucun dans le rapport des termes trouves par l'experience. Il ne me semble pas, je le repete, qu'on ait observe en aucun cas, deux coeffets d'une meme cause qui suivent des marches plus disproportionees que ces dilatations du mercure et de l'eau par les memes augmentations de la chaleur; et cependant on voit que par cette methode (je veux dire en prenant par observation des rapports des co-effets au dedans des limites ordinaires des intensites des causes) on 7 536 Mr. DE LUC on one lessens much the errors in the other terms, which will result from supposing them to be proportionate to the observed proportions; and that one procures a sensible exactness near the points of actual trial, which are at the same time near the greatest number of the cases of practice for which one wishes to find measures. And if one considers co-effects in general, setting aside this extreme disparity, one will perhaps seldom meet with any, which follow laws more different than the corresponding dilatations of quicksilver and brandy: even very frequently they will not deviate more than those of brandy and spirits of wine; and in that case it has been seen, that this method reduces so much the deviations by throwing them out of the limits of the ordinary cases, that it may be used without sensible error, when those co-effects on diminue beaucoup les ecarts qu'on fera dans les autres termes en les supposant proportionnels aux rapports observes; et qu'on se procure meme sensiblement l'exactitude, aux environs des points d'epreuve actuelle, qui sont en meme tems les plus pres du plus grand nombre des cas de pratique pour lesquels on cherche des mesures. Et si l'on considere les co-effets en general, mettant a part cette extreme disparite, on en trouvera peut-etre rarement qui suivent des loix plus differentes que les dilatations correspondantes du mercure et de l'eau de vie; tres souvent meme ils ne s'ecarteront pas davantage que celles de l'eau de vie et de l'esprit de vin; et alors on a vu, que cette methode y reduit tellement les ecarts, en les rejettant hors des limites des cas ordinaires, qu'on pourra `l' employer sans erreur sensible, Pyrometry and Aerometry, &c. 537 co-effects are not followed in all their degrees. Whilst, on the other hand, the method of taking the fundamental proportions in points which are very distant, under the idea of lessening the effects of the errors, is exactly that which accumulates a greater quantity of them upon the intermediate cases, which are the most frequent, and often the only ones in the which there is need in practice of knowing the co-effects by one another. One must not, therefore, seek the power of the Thermometer which corrects watches, invented by the immortal HARRISON, by trying it in the temperatures of artificial congelation and in a stove; for that is the way of destroying a great part of its correcting effect, in the very cases wherein it is most necessary, by accumulating on them the deviations of two co-effects, probably very little proportional, namely, the changes of the elastic force of sensible, quand on n'aura pas suivi ces co-effets dans tous leurs degres. Tandis que celle de chercher leurs rapports en des points fort eloignes, dans l'idee de diminuer l'effet des erreurs, est precisement le moyen d'en accumuler le plus sur les cas intermediares, qui sont les plus frequens; et souvent les seuls ou l'on ait besoin de connoitre les co-effects les uns par les autres. Il ne saut donc pas, par exemple, chercher le pouvoir du Thermometre correcteur des montres, invente par l'immortel HARRISON, en l'eprouvant dans les temperatures d'une congelation artificielle et d'une etuve: car c'est le moyen de lui oter une grande partie de cet effet correcteur, dans les cas ou il eft le plus necessaire; puisque c'est y accumuler les ecarts de deux co-effets probablement tres peu proportionnels; savoir les changemens de force elastique d'un ressort VOL. LXVIII. T t t spiral, 538 Mr. DE LUC on of a spiral spring, combined with all the other alterations heat produces in a watch, and the different degrees of bending of a lamella composed of two metals differently dilatable by heat. I am apt to believe, that a part of the irregularities which still continue in these watches with correcting Thermometers, proceed from not having tried their effects within the limits of the natural temperatures to which the watches are exposed. For the same reason it will not be proper to use very great differences of heat in the experiments intended to find the required combination of the two substances in the pendulum: on the contrary, it will even be better to make them within the limits of the natural variations of heat which the pendulum will meet with in its place: for by that means, though these substances have not probably spiral, combines avec toutes les autres alterations que produit la chaleur dans une montre, et les differentes courboures qu' eprouve une lame composee de deux metaux differemment dilatables par la chaleur. Aussi suis-je porte a croire, qu'une partie des irregularites qui restent encore dans ces montres a Thermometres correcteurs, viennent de n'avoir pas cherche leurs effets au dedans des limites des temperatures naturelles ou les montres sont exposees. Par la meme raison il ne faudra pas employer de tres grandes differences de chaleur dans les experiences destinees a trouver la combinaison convenable des deux matieres dans le pendule; et au contraire il conviendra de les faire en dedans meme des limites des variations naturelles de chaleur que le pendule eprouvera a sa place: car par la, quoique ces matieres n'ayent probablement pas la Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 539 bably the same progression by heat, one will not perceive in practice the effects of their differences. One must not neither, from the compared dilatations of air and quicksilver in passing from the freezing to the boiling point, conclude the relation of the densities of the air in the atmosphere with the height of the quicksilver in the Thermometer. For here, as in the comparison between spirituous liquors and quicksilver, we have a double error to guard against, that which may arise from the differences in the progression of all air and quicksilver by the variations of the heat, and that which more or less exhalations and vapours certainly do produce in the dilatations of the former. I believe, therefore, that to confine one's self, in seeking for a common rule, within the limits of the most frequent natural variations of heat, and observing their effects in the atmosphere itself, will be the la meme marche par la chaleur, on sera sensiblement a l'abri des effets de leurs differences. Il ne faudra pas non plus chercher, par les rapports des dilatations de l'air et du mercure en passant de la glace a l'eau bouillante, ceux des densites de l'air dans l'atmosphere avec la marche du Thermometre. Car ici, comme dans la comparaison des liqueurs spiritueuses au mercure, nous avons double erreur a prevenir: celle qui peut resulter des differences dans les marches de tout air et du mercure par les variations de chaleur, et celle que produisent surement dans la marche du premier, le plus ou le moins de vapeurs et d'exhalaisons qu'il contient. Se renfermer donc, pour la recherche d'une regle commune, dans l'etendue des variations de chaleur les plus frequentes, en observant leurs effets dans l'atmoT t t 2 sphere 540 Mr. DE LUC on the surest mean of diminishing the errors, till such time as one shall be able to follow these variations of density though all their causes; enquiries worthy the greatest care of natural philosophers. For the same reasons it will not be in the greatest and least degrees of heat in the atmosphere that we must take the fundamental proportions of the refractions with the Thermometer: for unless one was likewise to determine by experiment some of the intermediate proportions, one would probably be exposed to very great errors; considering first, in general, that the changes of the density of air by heat may possibly, as I have just said, not observe the same law as those of the quicksilver in the Thermometer; considering likewise that the changes of the density of the atmospherical air by heat are probably accomsphere meme, sera je crois le moyen le plus sur de diminuer les erreurs, jusqu'a ce qu'on soit en etat de suivre pas a pas ces variations de densite par toutes leurs causes; recherches dignes du plus grand soin des physiciens. Par les memes raisons il ne faudra pas chercher dans les plus grandes et les moindres chaleurs de l'atmosphere, le rapport des refractions avec le Thermometre: car a moins de determiner aussi par l'experience quelques uns des rapports intermediares, on seroit probablement sujet a de tres grandes erreurs: vu d'abord en general, que les changemens de densite de l'air par la chaleur, pourroient bien, comme je viens de la dire, ne pas suivre la meme loi que ceux du mercure dans le Thermometre: vu encore que les changemens de densite de l'air atmospherique Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 541 accompanied with a change of its nature, by the mixture of vapours and exhalations, which may occasion great variations in the law of dilatations; considering above all, that the changes of refringent power and of density are two co-effects of very different nature, the progressions of which may differ more, than those of the densities alone in different bodies. Here then are complications of complications, which may very likely accumulate errors in the intervals of the proportions furnished by experience between the refractions and the indications of the Thermometer, if those proportions were taken in points very far distant. The application of the theory of refractions to the practice of astronomy is as delicate as important, and cannot be viewed in too many lights: which determines me not to insist farther here spherique par la chaleur, sont probablement accompagnes de changement dans sa nature par le melange des vapeurs et des exhalaisons, ce qui peut rendre la loi de ses dilatations tres variable; vu surtout que les changemens de vertu refringente et de densite, sont deux co-effets de nature bien differente, et dont les marches peuvent s'ecarter davantage, que celles des densites seules dans differens corps. Voila donc des complications de complications, qui pourroient bien accumuler des erreurs dans l'intervalle des rapports fournis par l'experience entre les refractions, et les indications du Thermometre, si ces rapports etoient pris en des points sort eloignes. L'application de la theorie des refractions a la pratique de l'astronomie, est aussi delicate qu'importante, et l'on ne sauroit l'envisager 542 Mr. DE LUC on here on this object, but to consider it by itself in another Paper. As to physical co-effects in general, and I dare assert it here, in co-effects of all kinds, if one cannot fix all their relations, degree by degree, by immediate and sure observations, one must avoid deducing general rules from relations taken in the extremes. The action of causes, moral as well as physical, whether from the variety of the subjects on which they act, whether from secondary ones which escape our observations, is too complicated, for the observable modifications to increase in the exact proportion of the evident causes; and consequently for the co-effects of these to be proportionate between themselves. I shall sager par trop de faces; ce qui me determine a ne pas m'etendre d'avantage ici sur cet objet, pour la traiter a part dans un autre Memoire. Quant aux co-effets physiques en general, et j'ose le dire ici, dans les co-effets de tout genre, si l'on ne peut pas fixer tous leurs rapports degre par degre par des observations immediates et sures, il faut eviter de rirer des regles generales, de rapports pris dans les extremes. L'action des causes, tant morales que physiques, est trop compliquee, soit par la variete des sujets sur lesquels elles agissent, soit par des causes secondaires qui echappent a nos observations, pour que les modifications observables croissent en proportion exacte des causes evidentes; et par consequent, pour que les co-effets de celles-ci soyent proportionels entr'eux. 4 Je Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 543 I shall now collect the results of the preceding reflexions with regard to physical measures. When the inquiry is into general causes, such as heat, the electric fluid, humor, light, the weight of the air, the fall of bodies, percussion, &c. causes concerning which we never acquire sufficient light, we must endeavour to find out what are their most simple effects, in order to measure the intensity of them by those effects. In that case it is proper that the fixed terms of the measure be taken at the greatest possible distances. For it being the most simple effect, and consequently that which approaches nearest to follow, by its degrees, those of the intensity of the cause, it will serve as a common measure for all the other effects dependant on it. One must, therefore, ascertain the uniform Je vais maintenant rassembler ici les resultats des reflexions precedentes a l'egard des Mesures physiques. Lorsqu'il s'agira de cause generales, comme la chaleur, le fluide electrique, l'humor, la lumiere, le poids de l'air, la chute des corps, les chocs, &c. causes sur l'action desquelles nous n'acquerrons jamais assez de lumieres, il faut chercher quels sont leurs effets les plus simples, afin de mesurer leur intensite par ces effets. Alors sans doute il convient que les termes fixes de la mesure soyent pris aux plus grandes distances possibles. Car s'agissant de l'effet le plus simple, et par consequent le plus approchant de suivre par ses degres ceux de l'intensite de la cause, il servira de mesure commune pour tous les autres effet qui en dependront. Il faut donc assurer la construction uniforme de la mesure; ca 544 Mr. DE LUC on form construction of the measure, which cannot be more accurately obtained than by a great distance of the fixed points; and attempt, however, by every means possible, to find the proportions of this most simple and most regular effect, with its cause. It is on this account, that, in my treatise on the Thermometer, I have exposed all the reasons which lead me to believe that quicksilver is the body whose changes of bulk are most proportionate to the variations of heat which produce them, in order to assure to this liquid the preference as a common measure of heat: and that afterwards, as I have said above, I looked for the proportions of its progression with those of heat itself. But as to the co-effects which will be indicated by these measures of general causes, unless they can be determined degree after degree by experiment, and the objects ce qu'on obtient plus surement par une grande distance des points fixes; et chercher cependant par tous les moyens possibles les rapports de cet effet le plus regulier, avec sa cause. C'est par ces raisons que dans mon traite sur le Thermometre, j'ai rassemble tous les motifs qui me portent a croire que le mercure est celui des corps dont les changemens de volume sont les plus proportionnels aux variations de la chaleur qui les produisent; asin d'assurer a ce liquide la preference pour la mesure commune de la chaleur: et qu'ensuite, comme je l'ai dit ci-dessus, j'ai cherche les rapports de sa marche avec celle de la chaleur ellememe. Mais quant aux co-effects qui seront indiques par ces mesures des causes generales, a moins qu'on ne puisse les determiner degre par degre a l'aide de l'experience, Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 545 objects are delicate enough to make this necessary, the safest, and at the same time most convenient, method will be always to keep within the limits of the natural cases, to fix the fundamental points of the proportions; using for that purpose all the supplies of art and found logic to come as near to exactness as possible in fixing these bases. It is this consideration which seems to me to give some value to the method of ascertaining the relative expansibilities of bodies, which is the subject of the first part of this paper. If the co-effects are proportionate between them, there will be little lost in not taking distant terms of comparison, if they are taken exactly. If the co-effects are not proportionate, there will be much gain; and the less they are, so much the more. We are obliged to take up with probability in Nature in so many respects, that it is perhaps of more importance rience, et que les objets soyent asses delicats pour qu'il le faille, la methode la plus sure, et en meme tems la plus commode, sera toujours de rentrer en dedans des limites des cas naturels, pour fixer les points fondamentaux des rapports; en employant tout ce que l'art et la bonne logique peuvent fournir de secours et de methodes pour approcher le plus qu'il est possible de l'exactitude en fixant ces bases. C'est cette consideration qui me paroit donner du prix a la methode de fixer les expansibilites relatives des corps, qui fait le sujet de la premiere partie de ce Memoire. Si les co-effets sont proportionnels entr'cux, on perdra peu a ne pas prendre des termes de comparaison eloignes, pourvu qu'on les prenne avcc exactitude. S'ils ne le sont pas, on gagnera beaucoup; et d'autant plus, qu'ils le seront moins. Nous sommes obliges de nous contenter du probable a tant d'egards dans la VOL. LXVIII. U u u Nature, 546 Mr. DE LUC on tance to us to investigate the physical rules of probability than to attend to its mathematical rules upon hypotheses. EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. F I G. I. a a A rod of a substance little dilatable by heat (glass for instance) suspended vertically. b A bracket, from which hangs that rod. c Point of suspension of the rod. It is the point where the rod is free from the pressure of the piece which keeps it Nature, que chercher les regles physiques de la probabilite, nous est peut-etre plus essentiel, que de nous attacher a ses regles mathematiques sur des hypotheses. E X P L I C A T I O N D E S F I G U R E S. F I G. I. a a Une branche d'une matiere peu dilatable par la chaleur (de verre par exemple) suspendue verticalement. b Une piece fixee quelque part, d'ou pend cette branche. c Point de suspension de la meme branche. C'est celui ou elle se trove degagee de Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 547 it suspended; and it is from that point only that the length of the rod is reckoned. This is the rod which is called fixed in the paper. d d A rod of a more dilatable substance than the former. e Point at which the rods are connected, called in the paper point of union of the rods. f Point marked upon the rod d d at the middle height of the rod a a. g Another point upon the same rod, at the third part of that height. The rod d d is the one which is called free in the paper. If then that free rod has a dilatability double of that of the fixed rod, the point f shall be immoveable, notwithstanding the variations of the heat. If the first dilatability is triple, then the point d will be immoveable. F I G. de la piece qui la tient suspendue; et c'est de ce point seulement que doit se compter la longueur de la branche. C'est celle qui est dite fixee dans le Memoire. d d Une branche d'une autre matiere plus dilatable que la premiere. e Point ou les deux branches sont goupillees ensemble, nomme dans le memoire point de reunion des branches. f Point marque sur la branche d d a la moite de la hauteur de la branche a a. g Autre point marque sur la meme branche, au tiers de la hauteur de l'autre. La branche d d est celle qui est ditte libre dans le Memoire. Si donc cette branche libre a une dilatabilite double de celle de la branche fixee, le point f sera immobile, malgre les variation de la chaleur. Si la premiere dilatabilite est triple de la derniere, ce sera le point d qui sera immobile. U u u 2 F I G. 548 Mr. DE LUC on F I G. II. a a Stand to which the Pyrometer is suspended. b The hook from which it hangs. c c c The deal-board which is the basis of the whole apparatus. d d d d Four arms to which the frame e e e e is fixed. e e e e The frame. s s s s Another frame, which carries the Microscope. g g Two cross pieces, through which passes the tube of the Microscope, and which support it near both ends. h h The Microscope. i Its Micrometer. k Cork, through which passes the glass rod, and by which it is kept suspended. l l The F I G. II. a a Le support auquel est suspendu le Pyrometre. b Le crochet d'ou il pend. c c c La planche de sapin qui sert de base a tout l'appareil. d d d d Quatre bras qui servent a porter le cadre e e e e. e e e e Ce cadre. f f f f Le chassis qui porte le Microscope. g g Deux traverses dans lesquelles passe le tube du Microscope, pour le soutenir pres de ses deux bouts. h h Le Microscope lui meme. i Son Micrometre. k Liege dans lequel la branche de verre est tenue. 1 l l La Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 549 l l The glass rod. m A rod of metal, or of any other substance less dilatable than glass. n Point of union, obtained by means of two connected rings, in which both rods are fastened by screws. Higher up is another pair of rings, in one of which the metal rod is free, and which rod it supports. o p The piece to which the glass rod is suspended. q A square piece fixed to the frame by four screws, behind which is a box, in which, as well as in a groove cut in the basis in p, the piece o p slides. r A screw, which passes through the square piece q, whose use is to move backwards or forwards the piece q, in order to bring the surface of the metal rod to the focus of the Microscope. s s s s Four l l La branche de verre. m La branche de metal, ou de toute autre substance plus dilatable que le verre. n Le point de reunion, produit par deux anneaux accouples, ou chacune des branches est fixee par une vis. Un double anneau semblable, mais ou la branche de metal passe librement, se voit plus haut, et sert a soutenir cette derniere branche. o p La piece a laquelle la branche de verre est suspendue. q Une autre piece fixee sur le cadre par 4 vis, derriere laquelle est une boite ou la piece o p glisse fort juste, ainsi que dans une mortaise faite a la planche c c c en p. r Une vis qui passe au travers de la piece q, et qui sert a faire mouvoir la piece o p en avant ou en arriere pour amener la surface de la branche de metal au foyer du Microscope. s s s s uatre 550 Mr. DE LUC on s s s s Four screws, with round metal plates behind their heads, which serve to press the frame of the Microscope against the frame e e e e: the longitudinal openings, through which pass the screws, permit the free motion of the first frame, when one strikes gently with a hammer to the bottom or the top of one of the sides. When one wants the Microscope higher or lower than the grooves permit, one may change the screws in other holes made on purpose in the side pieces of the frame e e e e. t t t t The cylindrical bottle, in which hang the rods, in order to be heated at different degrees by water of various temperatures. u u Supporters of the bottle. x Thers s s s Quatre vis, ayant des plaques de metal derriere leurs tetes, qui servent a presser le chassis du Microscope contre le cadre e e e e; sans empecher cependant que ce chassis ne puisse monter ou descendre (par le moyen des ouvertures longitudinales ou passent les vis) en frappant des petits coups de marteau dessous ou dessus l'un des cotes. Quand on a besoin de placer le Microscope plus haut ou plus bas que les coulisses ne peuvent le permettre, on change les vis en d'autres trous qui sont le long des montans du cadre e e e e. t t t t La bouteille cylindrique dans laquelle pendent les branches pour y etre echauffees a differens degres, par de l'eau a differentes temperatures. u u Supports de cette bouteille. x TherPyrometry and Areometry, &c. 551 x Thermometer suspended in the water. y y A rod, to the lower end of which is fixed a small plate, to stir the water by moving it up and down. z z A syphon, one branch of which is within, and the other without, the bottle, the latter with a cock; serving to draw off the quantity of water which is necessary for changing the temperature in the bottle. F I G. III. a The ball of the Areometer, which is of glass and empty, except b The small cistern at the bottom, which contains quicksilver. c c The branch, made of a thin metal tube, cemented to the ball. 45, 15 Two x Thermometre suspendu dans l'eau. y y Baguette au bas de laquelle est une petite plaque, qui sert a agiter l'eau en la faisant mouvoir de bas en haut et de haut en bas. z z Syphon, dont une des branches est dans la bouteille, et l'autre au dehors portant un robinet; servant a tirer de la bouteille la quantite d'eau necessaire aux changemens de degres de chaleur. F I G. III. a Boule de l'Areometre, qui est de verre et vuide, excepte b Le petit reservoir rempli de mercure. c c La branche, faite d'un tube mince de metal cimente a la boule. 45, 15 Deux 552 Mr. DE LUC on 45, 15 Two threads tied to the branch, which are the fixed points of the Areometer, as intended to try spirituous liquors. The construction of the whole scale is explained in the paper. One may apply another scale on the opposite side of the branch (such as the arbitrary scale in the figure) intended to try merely the specific gravity of the liquids in which the Areometer may be dipped. The particular fixed points of this scale (as for instance d d) may be taken in two liquids whatsoever, whose specific gravities, tried by the hydrostatic balance, shall have a convenient relation; and the space between those two points will be divided into a convenient number of equal parts. The 45, 15 Deux fils attaches autour de la branche, qui sont les points fixes de l'Areometre, comme destine a l'epreuve des liqueurs spiritueuses. La construction de toute cette echelle est expliquee dans le Memoire. On peut tracer de l'autre cote de la branche une autre echelle (comme l'echelle arbitraire de la figure) marquant simplement les pesanteurs specifiques des liquides dans lesquels l'Areometre sera plonge. Ses points fixes (comme par exemple d d) pourront aussi etre marques par des fils dans deux liqueurs quelconque, ou la balance hydrostatique aura indique des pesanteurs specifiques qui ayent entr'elles des rapports simples, dont la difference sera divisee ensuite en parties egales sur l'echelle. Il Philos. Trans. Vol.LXVIII. Tab. VII. p. 552. a b Fig. I. a c Fig. II. e ~ b c y q k c e o p d f d g f u f ~ t s s e a d i m g g h h s s ~ ~ 60 d f f ~ 45 ~ n y ~ d u Fig. III. e ~ 30 e c 15 z 0 d ~ a a ~ ~ ~ Pyrometry and Areometry, &c. 553 The proportions are not determined in this figure, which serves only to help the explanation of the principles upon which a comparable Areometer might be constructed. Il n'y a rien de determine dans les proportions de cette figure, qui sert uniquement a rendre plus intelligible les principes sur lesquels on pourroit construire un Areometre comparable. VOL. LXVIII. X x x 