(313) II. An Account of some Indian Plants, &c. with their Names, Descriptions and Vertues; Communicated in a Letter from Mr. James Petiver, Apothecary and Fellow of the Royal Society; to Mr. Samuel Brown, Surgeon at Fort St. George. S I R, MY Opinion of the Plants you collected at Unanercoonda about Twelve Miles from Fort St. George, as you desired, are as follows; in the same Order, and under those Malabar Names and Numbers you sent them to me: viz. 1. Vellaiengeel maraum Malabar. Arbor Madraspatana floribus hexapetalis heptapetalisve, fructu coronato. 1. Names. This is a sort of Angolam, of which there are Two Kinds described in the Hortus Malabaricus, viz. Vol. 4. Tab. 17. Pag. 39. and Tab. 26. p. 55. The Fruit of this having but one round flat Kernel, agrees with the Description of the last, but the Leaves seem rather to resemble the first, viz. those in Tab. 17. N. B. You say, where Maraum is added it signifies a great Tree; the same I have formerly remarkt in the Hort. Malabar. of Mara and Maram. vid. Comel. in Not. H. Mal. Vol. 2. Tab. 49. p. 96. 2. Naiureevee Malab. Dr. Plukenet, that most accurate Botanist in his Phyto graphia, Tab. 10. Fig. 4, calls this Amaranthus spicatus Dictamni Cretici folio Maderaspatensis, whose Figure reA a a sembles 2. Names. (314) sembles this Plant very well while young, but the Leaves when full grown, are much larger, and the Spike longer, <inferred>generally</inferred> turning inwards. The Hortus Malabaricus seems to describe this in the 10th Volum, Tab. 78. Pag. 155. under the Name of Cadelari, which the Brachmans or Brammins call Cante Mogaro, ascribing these Vertues to it, viz. That the Decoction takes away Swellings, abates the Sharpness of Vrine, and eases the Stone; mixt with the Oyl Sergelin it stops pissing of Blood. The Root purges; being bruised and boyl'd in Butter, it cures a Dysentery; a Drink of it strengthens the Stomach, expels Wind, corrects Phlegm, and breaks the Stone in the Bladder; being applied to the Arm it cures Agues; bruised and drank in Wine is good for the Gravel, provoking Urine, especially in Hydropick Persons; mixt with Lemons it kills Tettars, and takes away Swellings under the Chin, &c. the Seed powder'd and snuft up the Nose cures the Head ach. Vertues. Joannes Commelinus, in his Notes on the Hortus Malab. takes this Plant to be the Verbena Indica Bontii in his Histor. Natural. Lib. 6. cap. 54. p. 150. (and I think not improperly) therefore it may not, I hope, be amiss to subjoin its Vertues with the aforegoing, viz. That the Natives of Java and they themselves having learnt of them, apply the Leaves of this Plant bruised to Ulcers in the Thighs with good Success; because it dries very much, which Quality is there very beneficial, by reason the Constitution of the Air in those parts is hot and moist, which renders the Ulcers very stubborn and difficult to cure. They give also a Spoonful of the fresh Juice of it in Colick Pains, Dysenteries, and without Distinction in all affects of the Bowels with very great Success; being bruised (315) bruised and mixt with Vinegar, they apply it to the Breast in Swoonings, and all fainting Fits. He farther says, the Indian Old Women esteem it there as a sacred Herb, and hold it very good for such as are Bewitcht, or under an Evil Tongue. This nicely differs from the Amaranthus Siculus spicatus radice perenni Bocconi, Tab. 9. p. 16. in having rounder Leaves, and those less white or hoary underneath Comparative Difference. 3. Nucheela Malab. Vitex Madraspatana foliis latioribus digitatis, floribus racemosis. 3. Names. This differs from the Common in having its Leaves somewhat broader, and its Flowers more sparst (or spread abroad) like those of Grapes on short Footstalks, whereas the Common grows close and at set Distances, like the Whorles on a Verticillated Plant. Comparative Difference. The Fruit in Bigness and Colour resembles Black Pepper, but is smooth and shining, set in a large Bellfashioned cinereous Calyx or Cup, and covers about half the Fruit, which is very hard, and so solid, that you can scarce distinguish any Kernel it hath, but as it were, an intire woody Substance and altogether insipid. and Description 4. Nella poonee Malab. Arbuscula Madraspatana floribus exiguis r acemiferis. 4. Names. The Leaves of this are many times only trifoliated, and sometimes winged; it has a racemose Flower like the last, but smaller; I shall suspend my Judgment as to what particular Genus it may belong to, until I receive it in Ripe Fruit. Description. 5. Parawootan chedde Malab. Baccifera racemosa Madraspatana Juglandis folio nigris maculis eleganter aspersis. 5. Names. Its Berries grow in Clusters, are round, black and coronated, no bigger than Pepper, each has a large Kernel and but little Pulp, which tasts not unpleasant; its A a a 2 Leaves Description. (316) Leaves grow opposite and are remarkably sprinkled with black Specks. 6. Neer Mulle Malab. Adbatoda Malabarica Spinosa Echii folio. The Horius Malabaricus first gave us the Figure and Description of this strange Diuretick Plant in the 2d. Vol. Tab. 45. p. 87. under the Malabar Name of Bahel Schulli, since which Dr. Plukenet hath figured it in his Phyt Tab. 133. Fig. 4. stiling it Anchusa angusti-Folia vercicillis longis aculeis armata e Maderaspatan & Alm. Bot. 30. 6. Names, I shall omit the Description of it here, because that most worthy Botanist Mr. John Ray, in his Histor. Plant. p. 1731. hath given it from the Hortus Malab. under the Denomination of Genista spinosa Indica verticillata flore purpureo caeruleo seuSpartium spinosum siliqua geminata. Since you tell me, Sir, it is a great Dieuretick, and that you have seen, this and round Pepper boyl'd in Water and drank Morning and Night cure the Ascites in a Portuguese Woman of 55 Years of Age; I hope it may not be amiss to tell you what Vertues the Hortus Malabar. ascribes to it, viz. Vertues. That a Decoction of it provokes suppressed Urine, and abates the Swelling of the Belly in Hydropical Persons, and being taken with the Oyl of the Ficus Inferni (by which I suppose is meant the Ricinus Americanus or Palma Christi) it cures the Dropsy as aforesaid, and breaks the Stone; the same externally applied dissolves Buboes. The Leaves also boyl'd and pickled, being eaten are Diuretick. The Hortus Malab. also confirms what you rightly observe, that this Plant grows in watry Places, and I am of the Opinion that the Malabar Syllable Neer, with you, signifies Aquatick,as I find Nir does in the Hortus Malab, place. 7. Nella Walle Malab. Cara Veela Hort. Mal. V. 9. Tab. 24. p. 43. Veela & Tiloni Bram.6. Five leaved Mock-Mustard. Sina 7. Names, (317) Sinapistrum Indicum pentaphyllum flore carneo minus non spinosum Herm. Hort. Lugd. Bat. Although the Hort. Malab. does not give us this as a Plant certainly described by <inferred>former</inferred> Authors, yet I find it has been known ever since Prosper Alpinus his time, which is now somewhat more than 80 Years ago, he dying An. Dom. 1616. Antiquity. For the several Synonyms of this Plant I refer you to Dr. Sloane's elaborate Caralogue of Jamaica Plants, p. 80. only subjoining this one to it, which Dr.Plukenet, in his curious as well as copious Almagestum Botanicum, p. 280.has since added, viz. Papaver corniculatum acre quinquefolium AEgyptiacum minus flore carneo non spinosum. synonyms. See a Description of it in Raii Hist. Plant. 859. Description. The whole Plant ~ and mixt with the Juice of Raca palam, takes away Tettars by washing with it; boyl'd in Oyl it cures all Cutaneous Diseases, particularly the Leprosy. The rest of its Vertues are the same with the Aria veela, H. Mal. V. 9. Tab. 23. p. 41. which in a little time we shall have an Occasion to mention. Vertues. 8. Neerchomboo Malab. I cannot at present distinguish this to be in any thing different from our Common Typha or Cats-tail. 8. An English Plant. Nevertheless, I am very well pleased to see an English Plant an Inhabitant of so remote a Part. 9. Vellacaungerree Malab. Mr. Richard Sambach, an ingenious Surgeon now living at Worcester, a Person whom you formerly knew, was the first who brought me this Plant from the East Indies which, with many others, I communicated to that most accurate Botanist, Dr. Plukenet, who has figured it in his Phytogr. Tab. 120. Fig. 5. and calls it, Ricinus Altheae folio molli & incano Maderaspatanus & Alm. Bot. 321. The 9. Name. (318) The Hortus Malab. had also figured and described it before in the 2d. Vol. Tab. 39. p. 73. under the Malabar Name of Schorigenam, and by the Bram. Pitta Gasurculi, erroneously reckoning it amongst the Nettles, which induced that worthy Person, Mr. Ray, in his Hist. Plant. p. 160. to describe it under that Tribe; but it being a Tricoccon, is therefore truly, as above, placed amongst the Ricini. The Hort. Malab. asserts that Rings made of the Root of this Plant and wore on the Toes, cures Fevers arising from Phlegm, and that a Decoction of it provokes Urine; the Juice of it drank in Cows Milk with Sugar cures the Itch and a Fever (as the Author terms it) in the Bones; the Wood with the Berries bruised and applyed, cures such as are wounded with the Sting-Raye. ~ 10. Shevanar weamboo Malab. Anil Maderaspatana foliis minimis confertis. 10. Names. This seems very well to agree with the Manelli Hort. Malab. V. 9. Tab. 37. p. 69. which says, the Flowers are of a beautiful red,which I want to be truly informed of, the Specimen you sent having Pods only. 11. Marrellumetee Malab. A. The Lesser Burdock or Xanthium. Xanthium sive (Lappa vel) Bardana minor Park. 1223. fig. bona. I. B. Vol. 3. Lib. 33. p. 572. Fig. Chabr. Ic. 514. Lappa minor Xanthium Dioscorid C B. 198. Phyt. 373. Bardana minor Ger. 664. id. emac. 809. Fig. Ray Hist. Plant. 165. Synops. 129. & edit. 2. p. 11. Names. This is a Native of England, yet found but in few Places, tho' pretty common in France. Spain, and Italy. I have lately received it from the Island of Coos collected there by my industrious Friend, Mr. Sam. Daniel, Surgeon; but you are the first that ever sent it me from the East Indies. It's (319) It's of a different Genus from our Bardana or greater Burdock, and resembles it only in its hamated Spines, this being a Capsule or Husk about the Bigness of a St. Lucar (or Luke) Olive, wherein are two Cells or Partitions, each containing one oval flattish Kernel, with a blackish Film or Skin. 12.Carennucheel Malab. by the English at Fort St.George, Black Agnus Castus. Adhatoda Madraspatana Hydropiperis folio. 12. Names. This Plant in Leaf and Flower very much resembles the Vada Codi of the Hort. Malab. Vol. 9. Tab. 42. p. 79. If you please to send it me in Seed I can better judge of it. 13. Varamullee Malab. Coletta VeetlaHort. Malab. Vol. 9. Tab. 41. p. 77. Gontua Bram. Kathukarohiti Zeylonesibus. Contasere Surratensibus. 13. Names. Adhatoda Malabarica tetracantha Synonims. Lycium Indicum Spinis quaternis ad singulorum foliorum ortum Parad. Bat. Prodr. Eryngium Zeylanicum febrifugum floribus luteis D. Herman not. MSS. ad Herbarium suum Vivum. Melampyro cognata Maderaspatana, spinis horridis Pluk. Tab. 119. Fig. 5. & Alm. Bot. 345. It grows three or 4 Foot high in Sandy and Watry Places. Hort. Malab. Place. It Flowers and Seeds in January and February. Time. The Juice cures Thrushes and the Swelling of the Bowels by Wind, the Natives chew the Leaves of this instead of the Betle. H. M. and it colours the Teeth black, as Mr. Benjamin Mewse, who brought it me from Suratt, informs me. Moochee Vertue, and, Use. (320) 14. Moochee chedee Malab. This is a sort of Phaseolus or Kidney-Bean, of which Species you have many in your Parts, it is very difficult to distinguish them but by their ripe Pods or Seed, neither of which the Samples you sent afforded, it may probably be one of those described in the 8th Volum of the Hortus Malab. but by reason of the aforesaid Deficiencies, I dare not determine it. 14. Its Kind. 15. Corain-cheddee Malab. Baccifera recemosa Madraspatana Lauri Ceras foliis, floribus parvis numerosissimis. 15. Name. The Leaves in Shape, Thickness and magnitude, very much resemble our Lawrel, these stand on very short or no Foot-stalks, and are set opposite alternately (i. e. by Pairs cross-wise) as in our Mint and several other verticillated Plants, each side of the Stalk from whence the Leaves proceed is towards the Flowring part remarkably carinated or furrowed, towards the Extremities of each Branch proceeds the flowring part. Description. The Flowers are very many and small, grow in large Tufts or Branches admitting of several Ramifications, these are succeeded by a small Coronated Fruit, in Shape, Colour and Magnitude very much resembling the Pimenta, All-Spice, or Jamaica-Pepper, its inside also very like it. It much resembles the Appel Hort. Malab. Vol. 1. Tab. 53. p. 99. as to its Fruit and Form of Growing, but our Leaves are larger and more oblong. ~ Its Affinity. 16. Serrufaulee Malab. Periploca Madraspatana Smilacis folio. 16. Name. The Leaves are like those of our great white Bindweed, but not quite so large, they grow by Pairs at certain Joints, being generally accompanied with two smaller Leaves on very short Footstalks, from these Joints come forth Description. (321) forth small Clusters of little Flowers, like those of Asclepias; each of these are succeeded by a double thin Podd, which is about two Inches and a half long, and one where thickest. The Seed lies in that part next the Footstalks, they are roundish, flat, and membranaceous, of a brown Colour, and hem'd about with a rusty colour'd List or Selvedge; the Silky Down, which sticks to the Crown of the Seed is very white, and soft as Sattin; each Plume is 1 1/4 Inch long. It somewhat resembles the Watta Kakacodi, H. Mal. V. 9. Tab. 15. p. 25. in its scandent Quality, but our Leaves are more taper, and the Flowers come not from one Bottom, and seem somewhat smaller. Comparison. 17. Calovee Malab. Convolvulus Madraspatanus flore auriculato, calycibus majoribus. 17. Names. This is a trailing Bindweed, its Leaves stand on half Inch Footstalks, the largest of them are somewhat more than anInch over,and near two long,each ending in a sharp Point; at the Bosom of each Leaf, which stands at certain Distances, comes one small single Flower, very rarely two; these are succeeded by a round Capsule, ending in a long Thread somewhat Hoary, about the bigness of a Pea, these are surrounded with five Leaves, two larger, and between these, three smaller; a little below this Calyx are two small Leaves, for the generality set opposite; in each Husk are commonly found four smooth brownish triangular Seeds about the bigness of MuskSeed. Description. This comes next of Kin to the Vistnu-Ilandi, H. Mal. V. 11. Tab. 64. p. 131. but differs thus; these Leaves are sharper pointed, and larger, and stand on Footstalks, the other the contrary; and from that of Bocco in having much larger Husks, &c. B b b 18. Adaca Its Affinity. (322) 18. Adaca-manjen, H. Mal. 10. Tab. 43. p. 85. Mundi Bram. Planta Indica alato caule, folio crenato piloso & viscoso flore glomerato purpureo Com. in H. Mal. Scabiosa major crispatis foliis alato caule Malabariensis Alm. Bot. (which differs not from the Scabiosa Indica major caule & pediculis foliosis of Dr. Plukenet, in his Phytographia, Tab. 312.Fig.6. and is the same with his Scab. minor alato caule Maderaspatensis Alm. Bot. 335. & Scabiosae capitulo Chrysanthemi Myconii foliis alato caule Maderaspatensis in his Phyt. Tab. 108. Fig. 7. this last being the Specimen of a younger Plant, and the second one of the same grown to more Maturity, as is very apparent in Samples of both which I have by me. 18. Synonims. Of the Leaves and Heads of this Plant is made a Decoction good in Faintings occasion'd by Wind, as also Pains in the Bowels, but more especially if you add Cumin-Seed powdered, and rub the part grieved therewith. With the Powder of it and Oyl they make an Oyntment good against the Itch, and all cutaneous Diseases. Being mixt with Honey, it cures a Cough. Of the Root dried they make a Stomachick Powder; good also for the Gripes in the Bowels. The Bark of it being bruised and mixt with Whey cures the Piles. The Inhabitants put it in their Drink, H. M. as we do Wormwood. Vertues. Carpa Cacuanna Mal. Scanga cuspi altera species H. Mal. V. 8. p. 70. Cata roda Zeyl. Creuck Javan. Flos Clitoridis Ternatensibus Breyn. Cent. p. 76. Cap. 31. Fig. Phaseolus Indicus caeruleus Glycyrrhizae foliis alatis, fl. amplo clitorio Alm. Bot. 294. 19. Names. and Synonyms. The Blew Clitorian Flower. The Juice drank with the Oyl of Schirgelim (which I take to be the Portuguese Word for the Sesamum of the Ancients) Vertues. (323) Ancients) provokes Vomiting. The Root bruised and drank in warm Water purges gently, which Virtues confirm what you relate as to its Emetick and Cathartick Quality: But the Root, as well as Genus of this and the next vastly differs from the Ipecacuanah of Piso, p. 231. ed. 2. N. B. 20. Vela cacuanha Mal. Schanga-cuspi H. Mal. V. 8. Tab. 38. p. 69. Gocarni Bram. Fabas de Brhamanne Lusit. Smalt-cruid Belgis. 20. Phaseolus alatus Ternatensium floribus albis Alm. Bot. 294. The white Clitorian Flower. This differs from the last only in the Colour of its Flower. 21. Pea-tumba Medde Malab. Tumba H. Mal. V. 10. Tab. 91. p. 181. & Bram. Nepeta Indica Sideritidis folio, floribus spicatis Com. in H. M. Cardiaca minor annua Americana flore Argenteo, seu Leonurus Americana alba folio Sideritidis longiore Phyt. Tab. 80. Fig. 7. 21. Synonyms. The narrow leav'd white Malabar Leonurus. It Flowers all the Year, and the bottom of each Flower contains a Hony-like Liquor, H. Mal. Time. Boyl'd in Oyl it cures the Itch, the Juice kills Worms in Ulcers, and being mixt with Lime it heals the biting of a Mad Dog. Taken up the Nose it eases the Head-ach. A Decoction of the Root drank cures the Leprosy. The Root or Leaves chewed and breathed on the Eyes takes away Films. H. Mal. Vertue. 22. Ponangcunne laccaree Mal. Perexil Madraspatana foliis oppositis angustioribus Polygoni. 22. Georgius Marcgravius, one of the first Observers of this Tribe of Plants tells us, the Portuguese call'd it Perexil, I have therefore chose rather to distinguish it by B b b 2 this (324) this Particular short Name, than to reduce it to a longer, viz. Amarantho affinis Azoides, &c. to the close of which Species it may be nevertheless added, with such others as may not come so adaptly amongst the Amaranths themselves. I do not give you this as wholly new, there being one or two very like it, that I have received from the WestIndies, which, after I have more strictly examined, I shall farther inform you of. It seems to grow erect, whether so or procumbent pray observe. Neer kille gelippe Mal. Wellia tandale cotti. H. Mal. V. 9. Tab. 28. p. 51. Gagaro Bram. Genista Malabarica pentaphy lloides fl. amplo aureo flavescente siliquis bullatis Com. in H. Mal. Crotolaria pentaphylloides Madraspatana floribus luteis Alm. Bot. Finger leaved Malabar Rattle-broom. It grows near three Foot high, the Leaves are disposed like those of our Garden Lupines, but never more than five from one center, they are Green above and Pale below; these stand on an Inch Footstalk, more or less, one side of which is furrow'd. The Stalk is round and carinated, at the Top of which its Golden Yellow Flowers grow in a Spike on short Footstalks, which are succeeded by a turgid bladder-like Pod, which terminates in a long Style. 23. Description. The Hort. Malab. ascribes the same Vertues to the Seed of this Kind as he does to the Tandale cotti V. 9. Tab. 25. p. 45. which is of the same Species, viz. That they make a Bath of the Decoction good in Fevers, but most especially in tedious Tertian Agues. Vertues. 24. Punga maraum Mal. Pongam seu Minari H. Mal. V. 6. Tab. 3. p. 5. Caransi Bram. Favas de chapa Lusit. Mans bonen Belg. Crista 24. Names. (325) Crista Pavonis monospermos 3. seu Arbor Vespertilionis maxima Indica, Juglandis folio majore, floribus spicatis albicantibus odoratis. siliqua nonnihil falcata, semine renali latissimo Breyn. Prodr. 2. Phaseolis accedens Malabarica alatis foliis glabris monospermos siliqua latiore brevi Alm. Bot. 294. & Pluk. Tab. 310. Fig. 3. Synonyms: This Tree grows in Rocky Mountainous Places. It bears from 15 to 50 Years old. It's ever Green, bearing Flowers and Pods from April to January. Place. Duration. Time. The Wood serves for Firing. A Bath made of the Leaves eases Gouty and Windy Pains; and the Fume of it allays Fevers. Its Juice timely taken cures the Bites of venemous Serpents, H. Mal. Use. and Vertue. 25. Puccapoonda Mal. Samolus Madraspatana Gram. Leucanthemi foliis. an Alsine holostea glabra seu Gramen Leucanthemum Indiae Orientalis Anagallidis Aq. 4 Lob. foliis angustioribus. Phyt. Tab. 130. Fig. 3. & Alm. Bot. 21. 25. Name. Of all the Plants in the Hort. Malab. this most nearly resembles the Parpadagam figured in Vol. 10. Tab. 35. p. 69. Its Affinity. The Stalk of this Herb from a small Fibrous Woody Root subdivides it self into very many smaller Branches, at each Joynt comes forth two long smooth and narrow Leaves, having sometimes, but very rarely another pair; these are like those of our lesser Stitchwort; from the setting on of these Leaves comes one or two, rarely more, round capsules not bigger than the Head of a large Pin, each standing on a fine stiff hair-like Footstalk, scarce an Inch long, each Husk seems coronated, i. e. has four little opposite Leafy Points, between which the Top is ridgd; within are contained many very small blackish Seed, which as nicely as I could perceive, were not separated Description. (326) rated by any Partition, tho' the Capsule seems externally to be sulcated. 26. Neer Ureevee Mal. Lysimachia non papposa humilis Maderaspatana Clinopodii Virginiani lutei foliis fructu Carophylloide parvo, Pluk. Tab. 203. Fig. 5. & Alm. Bot. 236. an Carambu Hort. Malab. Vol. 2. Tab. 49. p. 95. 26. 27. Perrepan Chedde Mal. Tsjeru-Tsjurel H. Mal. V. 12. Tab. 64. p. 121. vulgo Rottang, and by us Rattan. 27. Rottang Malabaricus minor. Arundo Rotang dicta Piso Mantiss. Aromat. 188. Fig. Ray H.Pl. 1316. A. Nucifera Rotang dicta,fructu spadicei coloris striis purpureis venuste tessulato Alm. Bot. Phaenico-Scorpiuros seu Helitropium Palmites spinosum,Polygonati angustis foliis Madraspatana, Pluk. Tab. 106. Fig. 1, & 2. & Alm. Bot. 276. Fructus squammosus orbiculatus minor Avellanae magnitudine C B. 510. F. exilis Cannae de Bengala creditus Clus exot.p.24. Fig. Fr. Cannae de Bengala I B. V. 1. l. 3. p. 400. an Arundo Indica versicolor. flexilis, CB. 18. IB. V. 2. <inferred>l</inferred>, 18. p. 489. & Raii H. Pl. 1277. Names and Synonyms. The lesser Rattan or Cane-chair Reed. The middle Rib of these Leaves, as well as Edges, are finely beset with very small hairy Thorns, which is neither exprest in the Hortus Malab. or Dr. Plukenet's Figure, which last otherwise very well resembles this Plant, particularly the tendency or peculiar coyling of its Flowers, which turn inwards like those of Tournsole or our Mousear Scorpion Grass. The Fruit also holds the same Disposition. Each Racema and its sub-divided Spikes of Flowers and Fruit are incompass'd below with a membranaceous Vagina or Sheath, conspicuous in both, but more obvious when in Flower. The Description. (327) The Fruit of this Reed is eaten by the Inhabitants and with the Canes split they make their Net-like Seats, as we do here our Cane-Chairs and Stools of the same. They apply the Roots roasted to the Head for the Pain thereof, H. Mal. Use and Vertue. 28. Collarunan coodee Mal. Soldanella Madraspatana major. This seems to agree in every point with the Bel Adambu Walli. H. Mal. V. 11. Tab. 58. p. 119. except its having fibrous Roots at every Joynt or Leaf, which this is void of. 28. 29. Ardanapolle Malab. This is an Aristolochia or Birth-wort, and has the Face of our common Kinds, but whether Round or Long its Root must determine. 29. 29. a. Carentulee Mal. Mentha Madraspatana cauliculis rubentibus hirsutis. an Ocimum Madraspatanum frutescens gratissimi odoris flore parvo cauliculis villosis Pluk. Tab. 208. Fig. 4? 29. a. Name. This seems to be that Variety of Solado tirtava Hort. Malab. V. 10. p. 173. whose Stalks, the Author says, are of a reddish brown, and the Leaves of a darker green, which with the aforegoing Description agrees very well with this Plant. Affinity. 30. Toura Mal. Thora Paerou Hort.Mal. Vol.6. Tab. 13. p. 23. Thori Brach Tangaraca Lusit. Quitsierii at Indostan; and by the Dutch there, Kayan seu Katsjan Zeyl. Lak Goetum Chinensibus; at Barbadoes and Jamaica it's call'd, 30. Names. The Pidgeon pea. Laburnum humilius siliqua inter grana & grana juncta semme esculento Cat. Plant. Jam. 139. to whose numerous Synonyms I thither refer you, only adding this omitted one, viz. Arbor Fabifera trifolia Salviae foliis. floribus luteis elegantissimis Hort. Bosian. I Synonyms. (328) I have not only received this Plant from Barbadoes and Jamaica, but also from several parts of Africa as well as Asia. Place. A Drink made of the Leaves stops the overflowing of the Hemorhoids; the same powdered with Pepper cleanses the Gums and cures the Toothach. A Fomentation of the Seeds with a little Rice made into a Linament with Butter, takes away Weariness and Pains in the Joynts. They make a Drink also of the aforesaid very good in the Small Pox. H. M. Vertues. 31. Velluppelle Malab. Euphrasia pratensis Satureiae foliis scabris e Maderaspatan. Pluk. Tab. 177. Fig. 6. & Alm. Bot. 31. Names. It grows many times more than two Spans high, the Root woody and stiff, tho' very small and threddy, its Leaves like Rosemary, but somewhat narrower, and sometimes longer; from the Bosom of every Leaf comes forth a rough carinated footless Calyx, in which stands a Flower somewhat larger than the common Eyebright, with a long Tube or Neck which stands above the Calyx, these are succeeded by a small Husk which opens when ripe, and shews its Intersepimentum or Partition. This Plant is commonly brancht, and runs up into very slender long Spikes. Description. It Flowers and Seeds in December and January. Time. 32. Narreepangul coodee Mal. Balsamina Madraspatana fructu parvo anguloso perbrevi pediculo affixa. 32. Names. The Leaves are rough, have generally five Lobes, the two lower not so conspicuous, and sometimes wanting, the full grown Leaves stand on a pricklish or rough Footstalk more than an Inch long, whose Serrae end in Spines, against which grows a curl'd Tendrel, which is guarded with a Lobe or Ear, whose Edges is surrounded with Hairs like those on the Leaves of Sundew at each Joynt Description. between (329) between the Leaf and Tendrel comes the Fruit which is brown, smooth, oblong, and angular about the bigness of a Barberry or somewhat larger, it stands on a very short Footstalk, and has its Corona against it in the middle of the Fruit, and not at the end, which is very remarkable. 33. Podoodalle Mal. An Verbena nodiflora C B. 269? Prod. 125. desc. & fig. opt. & Phyt. 524. desc? 33. This Plant very well agrees with the Figure and Description of this Author, who was the first that described it. 34. Rutrashacaudumba Mal. Jaca Madraspatana fructu Sparganii. 34. Name. This may be the Jaca minor sylvestris Malabarica Comel in Hort. Malab. V. 4. Tab. 35. p. 73. but I have not as yet observed more than a single Fruit from one Place, set on longer or shorter Footstalks and branched, whereas theirs is figured in Clusters (like our Chestnuts) and without Pedicles; the Leaves are somewhat broader and rounder, otherwise they have much the same Face and Texture with the true Jaca, as I have nicely observed by comparing it with a Specimen which that most Celebrated Botanist, JACOBUS BREYNIUS, sent me a little before his Death. Afsinity and Description. The Fruit of this is globular, very like the Burrs of Sparganium, but none that I have yet seen are quite so big, they are made up of small wart-like Tubercles, each rugose, like a Sweet Fennel-Seed, the Fruit cut <inferred>open</inferred> very much resembles that, so represented in the Hortus Malab. C c c 35. Caut (330) 35. Caut Morunga Mal. O R Wild Bezoar Tree. 35. Name. Anil Madraspatana trifoliata, siliquis carinatis hirtis. This Plant in all the Samples I have yet observed, has only three Leaves, from the setting on of which comes forth small Spikes of little Flowers, these are succeeded by as many Quadrangular, carinated, shorthair'd stiff Pods each an Inch long. Description. 36. Nella mullee Mal. Pee-Tumba H. Mal. V. 9. Tab. 46. p. 87. Butumbo Brach. Kawatuwa, Zeyl. 36. Names. Euphrasiae affinis Indica Echioides H. Leyd. app. descript. & Fig. 668. Gratiolae affinis Echioides Zeylanica major Breyn. Pr. 2. Buglossum Echioides Indicum Convolvuli caerulei minoris folio Ephemer. German. Ann. 4. & 5. Observ. 139. p.. Fig. & desc. Lysimachiae Virginianae accedens planta Com. in H. Mal. Synonyms. For a Description of this Plant I refer you to the Hort. Malab. and Dr. Herman's Leyden Catalogue, in both which they are accurately performed, (the last is transcribed by Mr.Ray in the Appendix to his Hist Plant.p. 1885) but the Figures of neither shews the Hoariness,which is very apparent in all parts of the Plant as my Specimens as well as the aforesaid Descriptions make very plainly appear. References. The Leaves taken inwardly is an Antidote against the biting of a Mad Dog, and the Juice a Specifick in Agues H. M. Vertues. 37. Neer Caudumba. Pentaphlora Madraspatana arborescens Benzoini foliis. I do not find any Plant in all the twelve Volumes of the Hortus Malabaricus, that this more nearly resembles than 37. Names. (331) than the Modagam, Vol. 4. Tab. 58. p. 119. but I dare not affirm it to be the same, until I am better informed of the Colour of its Flower, Shape of its Fruit, &c. Since I have mention'd the twelve Volumes of the Hort. Malab. which is indeed a very curious Work, I cannot omit telling you (it not being there taken notice of) that I am lately given to understand, that Dr. Wilhelmus Ten Rhyne a most ingenious Physitian and Botanist now living at Jacatra in Batavia, had a large share in composing that most Noble Herbal, as may be seen by Letters under his own Hand which he wrote to a Learned Physician of my Acquaintance, who was so kind to inform me of it. N.B. 38. Combee chedde Mal. Pentaphlora Madraspatana Nerii flore tubo longissimo. 38. Its Leaves in Shape and Stiffness are like those of Lawrel, at certain distances from the middle, the Veins are very conspicuous on both sides. The Flowers seem to resemble the Oleander or Rose-Bay, its long Neck or Tube in some of these are near two Inches long, being set in a small pentapetalose calyx not unlike those of Archangels, &c. this makes the Crown of the Fruit which is an oval Shell about the Bigness and Shape of a large Spanish Olive; internally it has three Selvedges to which the Pulp adheres, in which is contained a great many small flattish Seed. 39. Neer Culuttee Mal. Culi Tamara H. Mal. V. 11. Tab. 45. p. 93. Sagitta Indica major, folio obtuso, floribus minoribus albicantibus. Com. in H. Mal. p. 94. Sagittariae foliis planta, glomerato fructu, monopyrene, Coriandri fere figura Pluk. Tab. 220. Fig. 7. & Alm. Bot. C c c 2 The 39. Synonyms. (332) The Leaves are like our Arrow head, but the Spear broader and blunter, and the Barbs longer, the Flowers tripetalose, but it differs most in the Fruit, which grows in a Cluster-like a Mulberry, but more separate, and each as big as a Curran, but by lying together are comprest. Comparative Difference. 40. Woota chedde Mal. Ricinoides arborescens Madraspatana Cotini foliis. These Leaves grow alternately on 1 Inch Footstalks, the largest of them are about one Inch and an half broad, and two and an half long. Its Fruit very like a Bayberry, but somewhat bigger, its outer Skin being dry is brittle, thin, and shining as if varnisht, brown and somewhat wrinkled like the Pistachioes, under which is a Shell also like them, but breaks into two or commonly three parts, separated with Partitions, each of which being split discovers one Seed much less than its Cavity, not unlike those of Cassia fistula, but somewhat less and rounder, and pointed at one end. 40. 41. Shega pu coondamonee Mal. Konni H. Mal. V. 8. Tab. 39. p. 71. Fruita Contsii Lusit. Ronde Weegbonen Belg. 41. Names. Abrus minor Indiae Orientalis siliquis majoribus. I chuse to distinguish it only by this Name at present, until I have more leisure to separate the American Synonyms from it, wherein I find it somewhat differs, particularly in its Podds and Form of growing, which in this are larger though fewer, and have more Seed in them, viz. seldom less than five or six, and the American rarely or never more than three. The Leaves bruised and boyl'd in Water or Oyl with Calamus Aromaticus, alleviates such gnawing Pains as arise from sharp corrosive phlegmatick Humours. The Powder also taken with Sugar stops Catarrhs. The Juice takes away all cold Pains in the Joynts; the same being made Vertues. (333) made into a Linament with long Pepper, Ginger, Milk and Sergelim-Oyl dissolves all thick and tough Humours. The Root Powder'd with Cummin and taken in Water, corrects and cuts tough Phleagm: the same with the Fruit and Coco-Nut Milk cures the Piles. H. Mal. 42. Caut Mandaree Mal. There are four sorts of this particular leaved Tree, described in the first Volume of the Hort. Malab. Tab. 32, &c. the main Difference consists in the Shape and Colour of their Flowers, and Form of their full grown Podds, and until we have them in this Perfection, it will be difficult rightly to distinguish them. 42. 43. Curuta chedde Mal. Mal. an Naregam Hort. Malab. Vol. 4. Tab. 12. p. 27? Limo Madraspatanus apicibus foliorum fere sinuatis, fructu cuspidato. 43. Names. These Leaves stand on very short Footstalks, not above 1/4 of an inch long, the largest about an Inch broad, and not two long, taper at each end; but what is most remarkable in them is, they commonly terminate somewhat bifid, or as it were slit at the Point; they are perforated, and have the Texture of Lemmon Leaves; they altogether want that cordated Appendix next the Footstalk; its Thorns are woody and come from the bosom of the Leaves. Its Flowers grow in small Clusters, and seem to agree very well with the Figure and Description of the Mal Naregam H. Mal. V. 4. Tab. 12. p. 27. but the Fruit doth somewhat vary; it's about as big as a Cherry, and ends in a Point, has some Cortical Spots and seems porous as the Lemmons; its inside is divided into four Cells, in each of which I generally find one Kernel. 44. This Description. (334) 44. This has no Name in Malabar, in English 44. P A R S L T. Under this Denomination and Number I find two different Umbelliferous Plants, I presume these were cultivated in Gardens; for I have not yet seen any of this Species growing wild from your Parts, neither is there in all the Hortus Malab. one of this Genus there described. 45. Yelavan maraum Mal. 45. Gossipium arboreum maximum spinosum, folio digitato, lana sericea grisea Cat. Pl. Jam. 159. Names. Dr. Sloane, that most learned and accurate Botanist (to whose Catalogue I refer you for the many other Synonyms hereto belonging) observes that the Tunck of this Tree loses it Thorns as it grows old, and therefore supposes the smooth and thorny to be the same, whereas the Hortus Malab. Vol. 3. Tab. 49, &c. has taken no small Pains to make them distinct. 46. Coole cheddee Mal. 46. Phaseolus Madraspatanus pubescens minor, siliquis recurvis. an P. Madrasp. Laplab effigie flore parvo ochroleuco Pluk. Tab. 213. Fig. 4? & Alm. Bot. 291? The Leaves very well resembles Dr. Plukenet's Figure; the whole Plant is somewhat hoary but particularly the Stalks; the Flowers seem yellowish, the ripe Podds turn a little backward and end in a Style or thread; they are of a Tawny or Phyllamort Colour, as are the Seeds which are flatish, small and seem somewhat marbled. Each Pod has five or six Seeds with Depressions between each. Thus (335) Thus, Sir, I have given you my Sentiments of this your Unanercoonda Collection, and if herein I can be farther Serviceable to you, be pleased freely to Command, W O R T H Y S I R, Your most Obliged Friend, and Humble Servant, James Petiver. From my House in Aldersgate-street, L O N D O N; Sept. 24. 1698. III. 