Another Accompt of the same Subject, Englished out of the French Journal des Scavans, printed at Paris the 22th of June 1671. THe New Star, which Don Anthelme, a Carthusian of Dyon, hath lately discover'd *, is one of the rarest Appearances observed this good while. As this person contemplated the Heavens at night, June 20th of the last year,desirous to discover that admirable Star, which hath appear'd and disappear'd twice since the beginning of this Century in the Constellation of the * See Numb.65.p.2092. Where the time mentioned of the first discovery of this Star, differs from that of the relation of this Journal, and is doubtless hence to be corrected. (2199) the Swan *; he perceived near the same Constellation a Star of the Third Magnitude, which he had never yet observed. He presently signified it to the Company which assembleth in the Library of the King: And divers of that Assembly having beheld the Heavens about the end of June and the beginning of July, took notice,that there was indeed about the Beak of the Swan a New Star of the third magnitude, not to be met with in any Catalogue of Astronomers, although many other neighbouring Stars,that are much smaller, be exactly marked by them. It was scituate as appears in the following figure *. * Which is that in Pectore Cygni. * See Fig. 2. I Z Lyra. Nova-stella The Obliquity of the Ecliptick supposed to be 231/2 degrees, the Longitude of this Star, according to the Observation of Mr. Picard, was 1~. 55~. of Aquarius. The right Ascension 293. 33. The Boreal Latitude 47. 28. And the Declination 26. 33. It came to the Meridian after the Star in the Beak of the Swan 16~.44~. And before the lucid Star of the Eagle 0. 27. It was distant from the great Star of the Constellation of Lyra 18~. 39.40. From the Beak of the Swan 3. 47. 30. And from the Tail of the Swan 20. 54. 30. H h h But (2200) But that which is further remarkable, is, that in the beginning of July * this Star was observed to decrease. In the night of July 3d, it appear'd yet of the Third magnitude, but her Light was sensibly fainter. In the night of the 11th of the same month, she scarce appear'd of the Fourth magnitude. In the night of August 10th, she was but of the Fifth. And she hath ever since decreased still,so that at last she became so small that she was seen no more. * Compare Numb. 66. p.2028. And so she hath remained for six months without shewing her self, and we could not discover her again till the night of March 17th last, when Don Anthelme spied her in the very same place, where she was the year before, and found, that she was of the Fourth magnitude. The Assembly that meets in the Kings Library, having notice thereof, several of them did observe this Star in the night of the 2d of April last, finding her in the self same place where they had seen her the precedent year. The 3d of the same month M. Cassini found her greater than the two Stars of the Third magnitude that are below in the Constellation of Lyra, but a little smaller than that in the Beak of Cygnus. The 4th of the same month, she appear'd to him almost as great and much more radiant than that of the Beak of the Swan. The 9th of the same, he found her a little diminish't; and almost equal to the greatest of the two Stars that are below in Lyra. The 12th, she was equal to the least of these two Stars. The 15th,he perceived that she encreased,and he found her equal,the second time,to the greatest of these two Stars. From the 16th unto the 27th, she appear'd of different magnitudes, being sometimes equal to the biggest of these two Stars, sometimes equal to the least, and now and then between both. But the 27th and 28th,she was become as big as the Star in the Swan's beak: The 30th, she appear'd a little clearer. And the first six days in May, she was greater. The 15th of May she was seen smaller than the same Star. The 16th, she was in bigness between the two Stars that are below in Lyra: And ever since she hath still diminished. Thus this Star hath been twice in her greatest splendour, first on the 4th of April; and the second time, in the beginning of May: Which we read not to, have ever happen'd to any other Star. As far as can be judged from the few Observations made of this Star, 'tis likely she is returning about Ten months unto the same appearance; whereas that in the Whale's Neck maketh its revolution in Eleven months. As for the Star in the Swans Breast, we have as yet no certain knowledge of the period of her revolution; yet (2201) yet one may assure, that she taketh no less than Fourteen years to finish it. The Discoveries,that have been made in the Heavens this last age, do evince,that Changes are not so rare there,as formerly was believed. If that was true,what Pliny saith,that Hipparchus, on the occasion of a New Star he perceived, made an Enumeration of all those which appear'd at that time, there would not be any one Constellation, in which some change were not found since that time, in regard there are few, wherein there be not found more Stars now than that Astronomer hath noted in them. But as the little assurance we have of the exactness of Hipparchus his Catalogue giveth us cause to believe, that many Stars, which were not in that Catalogue, were yet in the Heavens; so we may well grant, that some of those, that have been observed since, have not appear'd always. For,not to speak of the Stars,that have been seen in the Constellation of Cassiopea, in the Neck of the Whale, in the Breast of the Swan, and in Serpentarius, Monsieur Cassini hath discover'd many other little ones *, which may very well be presumed to be New. For example, he hath observ'd one of the Fourth magnitude, and two of the Fifth in Cassiopea, where 'tis certain they were not seen before, many Astronomers having exactly reckon'd up the very smallest Stars of that Constellation,and yet not one of them mention'd those three. He hath discover'd Two others, towards the Beginning of the Constellation of Eridanus, where we were sure they were not yet about the end of the Year 1664, considering that this place of the Heavens, vvhere passed the then appearing Comet, was diligently beheld by many, who perceived divers other small Stars,without observing those two. The same hath also observed, towards the Arctick Pole Four of the Fifth or Sixth magnitude,which Astronomers, that always have their Eyes upon that place, vvould not have failed to note, if they had there appear'd before. * Compare those,discover'd by ~ M. Hevelius, in Numb. 65. p.2091. Nor are we to wonder at it, that we see now more Stars in the Heavens than there appear'd formerly, seeing there appear'd those formerly, vvhich are seen no more novv. For M. Cassini hath observ'd, that the Star, vvhich Bayerus puts near that vvhich he marketh in the Figure of Ursa minor, appears no more; that that, which is marked A in the Figure of Andromeda, is also disappear'd; that in lieu of that, vvhich is marked v, at the knee of the same figure, there are two others more Nordward; and that that, vvhich is noted ~, is very much diminisht, The Star, vvhich Tycho placeth at the extremity of Andromeda's Chain, and calls it of the Fourth magnitude, is novv so small that one can scarce see it: And that vvhich is in his Catalogue the 20th of the Constellation of Pisces, is novv no more seen; unless you will say, that it is gone down lower than four H h h 2 degrees, (2202) degrees, to the place marked o in the Figure of Baverus *. But vve are not therefore presently to say, that the Stars, that have been lately discover'd, were not in the Heavens before, although they vvere not seen there. For, as vve now knovv, that there are Stars, vvhich appear and disappear from time to time, so we have cause to suspect, that most of the Stars, that vvere not seen formerly, or that are seen no more novv, or are found diminish't, are of the same nature vvith the Star in the Whal's Neck, and do not cease to be in the Heavens, though they there appear not. It is also possible, that these New Stars not only vvere in the Heavens, but even appear'd there before they vvere taken notice of as Nevv ones: And it is very probable, that 'tis also vvith most Stars, as vvith that in the Neck of the Whale, vvhich vvas not observed at first, but vvhen it vvas already of the third magnitude; although it hath been since found, that it is not really so great vvhen it begins to appear, but that, being very small in the beginning, it encreaseth insensibly untill it come to that greatness. * We cannot omit taking notice here of what was communicated to the R. Society, about the same subject, in a Letter of April 30. 1670. by Signor Montanari, the I earn'd Professor of the Mathematicks in Boxonia, in these words: Multa possem certe nova de Calo Vobis tradere, quae a multis annis observo, atque Firmamento meo Instabili exornando at propediem evulgando suppeditavero; `ed unum, quod cateris admirabilius est, proseram. Desunt in Caelo duae Srellae Seeundae Magnitudinis in Puppi Navis ejus ue Transtris, Bayero ~ & ~, prope Canem majorem, a me & aliis, occasione praesertim Cometae A. 1664. observata & recognitae. Earum Disparitionem cui Anno debeam, non novi; hoc indubium, quod a die 10. April. 1668. ne vest gium quidem illarum adesse amplius observo; caeteris circa eas, etiam quartae & quintae magnitudinis, immotis. Plura de aliarum stellarum mutationibus, plusquam centenis, at non tanti ponderis annotavi, &c. However, these Phenomena deserve always to be carefully observed by all Astronomers. 