J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. An Extract of a Letter Written by Francis Willoughby Esquire to the Publisher, containing some Observations of his made on some Sycamore-Trees, the Black-Poplar, and the Walnut: As also his thoughts about the Dwarf-Oaks, and the Stellar Fish described in Numb. 57. I Am sorry, I cannot return you a better Answer to yours of March 19; the Experiments, which our leasure hath since permitted us to make, being not sufficient to found a new Hypothesis on, to con(1200) confirm Dr. Teng's. Since the Leaves have been explicated, we have observ'd the Sycamore after several frosty nights to bleed afresh in the morning, soon after Sun-rising, when it had ceased several dayes before: Though this must not be understood of all Sycamores, but of some only that are more sensible and observant of the Weather. April 3d. and 4th. all the Sycamores quite ceased. The 5th. being after a white frost, they began to bleed about 8 a clock, and ceased towards noon. The 9th, 12th, 13th, 15th they bled again. The 10th, 11th, 14th were not observed. This 16th they bled not, it being rainy, and the Sun not shining. From the Observations we have hitherto made, we think it may be certainly inferr'd, that a morning-sun after a frost will make all the Bleeding Tribe bleed afresh, though they had before ceased; and that this new bleeding towards the latter end of the season commonly ceaseth before morning. Possibly some may bleed after a frost, yet further in the Summer. I observed last year in August a copious and spontaneous exudation, very like bleeding, of a viscous yellow Juice out of the buds of a black Poplar. Our Walnut-trees bleed here in January. The Starre-fish, in the last Transactions, is the Stella arborescens Rondeletii p. 121. first described by him, and since by other Naturalists. There is no such dwarf-Oak in Old England, growing wild, as was sent you out of New-England, nor in any other Country, where we have been, unless it be the Ilex coccifera, which is a low shrub, bearing large Acorns, and hath a prickly leaf like Holly. If it prove that, it will be a lucriferous discovery. Midleton in Warwick shire April 16. 1670. 