(611) An Accompt of some Books. 1. Nicolai Mercatoris Holsati, e Soc. Regia, INSTITUTIO NUM ASTRONOMICARUM Libri duo,de MOTU ASTRORUM Communi & Proprio, secundum HYPOTHESES Veterum & Recentiorum praecipuas; deq; Hypothesewn ex Observatis constructione: cum TABULIS TYCHO NIA NIS Solaribus, Lunaribus, Lunae-Solaribus, & RUDOLPHINIS, Solis, Fixarum, & quinq; Errantium, earumq; Usu,praeceptis & exemplis commonstrato: subnexa Appendice eorum, quae novissimis temporibus caelitus innotuerunt. Londini, 1676. in 80. THis Learned and Industrious Mathematician hath made it his business to comprehend in these Institutions the Sum and Substance of Astronomy: And although many Authors before him have done very worthily in treating of this Science, particularly Maestlinus, Keplerus, Ricciolo, and Gassendus; yet hath He pursued several things differently from others,and insisted on such particulars,as he thought most pertinent to his purpose. For,besides the Representation of the main Use of both the Globes in divers considerable Problems, and the Trigonometrical Calculation employed in the doctrine of the Sphere; he hath with a peculiar diligence explained the matter of the Equation of Time in both the Ptolomaean and Copernican Systeme, as also the Lunar Hypothesis of Tycho,and the Elliptical of the Planets: Norhath he been less solicitous in teaching the way of raising Hypotheses from Observations, and in delivering the calculus of the Celestial Motions from the most approv'd Tables: Explaining also with a not ordinary exactness the Keplerian Hypothesis of the Planets,and subjoyning thereto the Astronomical Hypotheses of Ward, Bullialdus, and his own, which last he esteems New, and according to which he teaches how to make a calculus a priori, comparing the same with good Observations. The whole he concludes with the exhibition of the late Discoveries made in the Heavens. So that it seems to be a work very useful for all Students of Astronomy, both laying the true foundation of this Science, and directing the Lovers thereof to those particulars, that may render them accomplished in the same. II.Ol. (612) Il. Observations sur les EAUX MINERALES de plusieurs Provinces des France, faites en l'Academie Royale des Sciences, en l annee 1670, & 1671. par le Sieur du Clos,Conseiller & Medecin ordinaire du Roy,de la dite Academie. AParis. 1675 in 12~. T H E Royal Parisian Academy, resolving to search into the Qualities of the most considerable Mineral waters of France, did not, it seems,proceed to this proceed to this examen without great deliberation; the reasons of the Usefulness of these waters for the recovery of the Health of many sick persons, being balanced by those of the difficulty of knowing the Causes of the proprieties of the said waters, depending particularly upon the mixtures of certain bodies they meet with in their passages through the Earth,and in the cavities or interstices of Rocks, and which are divers and very numerous, such as Vapors,Juyces,Salts,Earths,&c. They were aware, that the greatest part of those matters, with which Mineral waters may be impregnated, are not discern'd in them,and that the different mixture which is made of many of them together, may constitute so many kinds of Mineral waters,salubrious or pernicious,that it seems impossible to know them all and to determine them. The Waters of the same Springs may,say they,at different times receive notable alterations by new mixtures, or by the cessation of those that were made before. They think it not likely, that the Waters, called Mineral, are produced of the sole Mineral Vapors condensed, and that in the Earth there are Mines in that abundance as ~ to furnish Vapors capable,when condensed,to entertain and feed the perpetual course of those waters in Springs that dry not up: But they Judge, that some Mineral Vapors or Exhalations mix themselves with the Common waters that traverse the Earth where they are, and are condensed,and that these waters remain impregnated with their qualities,and with some volatil Salts not concreted, elevated in those dry Exhalations,or in those moist Vapors. They find, that the discerning of the Qualities of those Exhalations and Vapors is not easie; that the diversity of their matter is very great; that the occursion of their mixtures is casual; that the conditions of the places where they pass and where they are detained,are not manifest; and that the alterations which they produce in the waters, into which they insinuate themselves,are not always well known. They (613) They consider also, that there is no less difficulty in knowing and discerning the Juyces that may be mingled with the Mineral waters,and particularly those that receive no Concretion,and that do not communicate to these waters any sensible quality: For,those liquid and totally volatil Juyces do pass away in the distillation with the matter of the water,and do not manifest themselves but by such effects as simple water cannot produce. They note further, that those Juyces which are called Concrete, because they are condensable and resoluble, leave sediments that render them visible and palpable after the distillation or evaporation of the water wherewith they are mixed; but that 'tis difficult to discern the species and proprieties of them, if they have not some resemblance with those that are known, or if there be many of them together. As to Salts and Earths,they look upon them as the most sensible and the most common matters of those that are mixed in the waters of Fountains and Wells;so that there is almost no Earth which is not participant of some Salt dissoluble in the waters that pass through; and the current of those waters doth also carry always with it some fine and snbtil Earth, But though these are the substances that are most manifest in these waters;yet they find,that the knowledge of these Salts and Earths mixed in the waters is not always so distinct as to enable us to determine the species, and to give a certain Judgement of their proprieties. They observe further, that there are few Concrete Salts that are known to us;and that there may be many that have nothing like to Common Salt,Nitre,Allom and Vitriol, which are the four most vulgar of the concrete Mineral Salts. Those, whose disposition to concretion is not finish't, and which are yet embrionated and as 'twere in their feminality or first Being, are less knowable in that state; and those that are more formed and already concreted or capable of concretion, have not simple and homogeneous substances in each species. That Salt, that is called Common-Salt, is observ'd to have two different portions mixed together;the one is condensed and crystallised by cold and in moisture, after the evaporation of a part of the water wherein this Salt hath been dissolved;the other will not be crystallised nor condensed but by a total evaporation of the rest of the water. The portion that's crystallised by cold and in moisture, is the most sulphureous, and by its sulphureity it will mix (614) mixe it self with the sulphureous salt of calcined Tartar resolved in the moist Air,or in common water, without turbidnes and without coagulation: But that portion of this common salt, which is not condensed but by the total evaporation of the water that had dissolved it, hath an acidity that instantly coagulates the salt of Tartar resolved, and all other fixed Salts that are sulphureous and nitrous. The Vitriol, which in a moist Air yields an efflorescence upon sulphureous marcasites, hath likewise a juicy portion,condensable only by the total evaporation of its aqueous humidity,and being of a very acrimonious taste,and of an unctuous consistence,and quickly resoluble in a moist Air; which juicy portion is very different from that which it condenseth first & crystalliseth by cold in the water where this vitriol hath been dissolved. These crystals are pure vitriol,acid-austere,of which much mineral earthprecipitates by the mixture of sulphureous and nitrous salts, with which the other portion will mixe it self without turbidness, not having,like the former, that acidity upon which the sulphureous salts can work: Which is otherwise in common salt, of which the first portion is the most sulphureous, and the second the most acid. True Nitre is likewise composed of two different saline portions; the one more sulphureous, which crystalliseth by cold,and in moisture; and the other, which remains dissolved after this crystallisation and is not condensed but by a heat strong enough to expel all dissolutive humidity, is less sulphureous,and hath some acidity, which the other hath not. The first Beings or Embrions of mineral salts are nothing but vapours, or juices not concreted,totally vaporable;of which some may be condensed and in part fixed by the action of fire, or disingaged from their matrixes, and made capable of concretion by means of the Air;which is observ'd in certain Nitrous,Aluminous & Vitriolique salts. The sulphureous salt ~ is found in the lime of certain hard stones burnt in the fire, and which is a species of true Nitre, had its Seminal Being in those crude stones; and in that state of its first Being,it is very different from that which it acquires by the fire, which from Cold and Coagulative, changes it into Caustique and Resolutive. This cold and coagulative quality of this stony salt in its first Being, manifests it self enough in the waters of certain Rock-springs,which are very limpid and cold, and breed cold and scirrhous tumors under their throats that ordinarily drink (615) drink of them. TheSeminal substance of stonySalt is made nitrous, sulphureous,caustique and resolutive by the fire, which was able to exalt it, but not able to produce it in calcining these stones, no more than that of burnt shels of Oysters, of which also a lime is made, which hath not less of sulphureous salt in it. This embrionated salt in lime-stones is a stony juice,which may mix it self with the waters that pass between the beds & interstices of those stones in the rocks, but which is not easily discerned in waters that are impregnated therewith. The Seminal Being of Allum and that of Vitriol must also be in the matters from whence these species of Salts are extracted by the means of water, after their calcination in the Fire, and their maceration in the Air. The Fire and Air that have exalted them,could not produce them. Neither the seminal substance of Allum in Aluminous stones, nor that of Vitriol in sulphureous marcasites, are in that state manifest to our senses, and often they come not to be known in Mineral waters but by some effects, and that without certainty, because those may be equivocal. All these varieties of Mineral salts, embrionate, form'd, crystallin, juicy,sulphureous,non sulphureous, of the first and second concretion; those of their genus's, species's, mixtures, propertions, alterations, &c. render difficult and uncertain the judgment concerning the proprieties of the waters that partake of them. Again, concerning those Subtile Earths, which do also mixe themselves in Mineral waters, they may also be of different sorts, difficult to discern: Some of them are found of different colours, white,gray,yellowish, reddish, brown;and of different qualities, some being dissoluble in distilled Vinegar, others indissoluble; some fusible, others not fusible by the fire, where they take several colours; some are marly, others argillaceous, others cretaceous; some bolar,some sandy,some talky,some limy; others there are that are produced by the concretion of certain juices, saline or sulphureous, others not; some are simply mineral, others metallique. Most of these sorts not being easie to be discerned separately, they will be less so when they are mixt with one another. The simple infusions of certain sulphureous mineral Earths may notably alter the waters of Wells and Fountains, without having any thing of thoseEarths remaining in their sediments after distillation; in like manner as nothing is seen in certain liquours rendred vomitif by the sole infusion of Antimony. L l l l The (616) The hot Mineral waters may contract some alteration from the sulphureous and bituminous matters,which they meet with in their course; for these matters partake of certain subtil salts, which those waters may resolve and carry away with them. Some Cold or Tepid mineral waters have a sharpish or vinous taste, which is not observed in any of those that are considerably hot: But this taste is so easie lost upon the least heat, and even in the free Air, that 'tis hard to know what it is that produces it. It is not only found in waters that are esteem'd to be Aluminous and Vitriolate, but also in those that are manifestly Nitrous, and which abound in Sulphureous Salt opposit to Acids. The Causes of the Heat of some Mineral waters are little known. There is reason to doubt,whether there be Subterraneous fires capable to heat them; or whether they have received this heat by the exhalations of some Mineral juyces that are fermentable,or in which some effervescence is made by the mixture of other juyces. All these difficulties have retarded the publication of these Observations, which,it seems, this Royal Academy hath been these four Years a making upon the waters, that have been sent them from divers Provinces of France, and that have undergone their examen as occasion hath serv'd for it. Having premised these particulars, to manifest the Difficulty and nicety of this kind of research;they subjoyn the Method employ'd in this examination; which indeed is made with that consideration that becomes the wisdom and care of that Illustrious Body, and is adapted to lead them into a greater knowledg of those waters,than those Authors had that have hitherto written of them, and that very often have not judg'd of them but by the effects, which might be referr'd to divers causes. Now, according to this Examen made upon a great number of waters from different Springs, both hot and cold, they have particularly observ'd Salts and Earths of divers qualities, and in different quantities. The Salts, which condensed after distillation, or a slow evaporation of the waters, were brought before them, are here reduced to two sorts; viz. The one is the Nitre of the Antients, wch they describe to be a sulphureous mineral Salt, like to the Alcali of Plants; the other, the Common Salt consider'd in either of its different portions, or according to the commixture of both together: And'tis remarkable,me thinks,that in none of those waters there (617) there appear'd any Allum, or true Vitriol, except the water of Vahls in Dauphine, which yielded a salt that had some resemblance to white Vitriol. They take notice, that they did not much apply themselves to observe the Forms and Figures of each of thoseSalts they met with in their condensations, because they found them vary in the same Salts, according to the manner and degree of the evaporation of the water wherein they were dissolved for refinement. As to the Earths that were found in different quantities in the waters here examin'd; they acknowledg likewise, that the particular discernment of their species's was yet less easie than that of the species of Salts. Some of those Earths were white, some gray, some redish; and in the evaporation of all those waters, their terrestrial parts form'd themselves diversly; some into floting filmes, some into flocks, some into mucilages; others into little clods; others into small grains of sands; others into fine brown powder: Again,some dissolved almost wholly in distilled vinegar, with some effervescence; some dissolved but in part, some not at all; others only gave to the distilled vinegar a high tincture of hyacinth, wch was lost in few daies: Again, the fire made some of these Earths change colour, others not; and some of them it calcined, and vitrified others. These observations of the qualities, quantities, differences and agreements of the Salts and Earths of so many waters, examin'd by these Philosophers, (of which a particular History and account is here given)may be very useful & serviceable to those Physitians that advise the use of them, the better to make choice of those, which by reason of the mixture of those more sensible mineral matters may sute with their intentions for the restoring of many Patients to their former health. For a conclusion of this History, they give us some Advertisements and Corollaries, worthy indeed to be taken notice of; as, 1. That the great quantity of mineral waters,which Physicians make those to drink, to whom they prescribe them for the cure of certain contumacious diseases that will not yield to ordinary remedies, gives us occasion to judg, that the chief effect, which they make us expect from them,is the cleansing of the viscera by this internal ablution,: And that this effect is considerable, because most of Chronical diseases come from the obstruction of the viscera, which this great quantitie of mineral drink may remove. Mean Llll 2 time (618) time'tis to be fear'd,that few Physicians take pains to search into the particular qualities of these waters,which yet are very differing,and considerable enough to induce them to an endeavour to know them well, that so they may make a better use of them,according to the differences of Diseases and the different constitution of the Diseased. Now these Mineral waters may have different particular qualities upon this account also,that some of them come from places less distant from the surface of the Earth, others from deeper ones. The former,traversing Earths less compact, do resolve the Salts they there meet with,and charge themselves with some of the subtile terrestrial particles found in them, by making them evaporate. The later, being rarified in the depths of the Earth, whence they are elevated,do easily receive the mixtures of Mineral exhalations and vapours, which are frequent in those inner recesses; but those mixtures often not being discerned in waters carried away from their Sources, neither by the scent, nor by the taste,cannot be known but by the effects, which to refer to their causes is not alwaies so easie, nor so certain. 2. That the knowledg here given of the Salts and Earths of many Mineral waters will not fully satisfie the curiosity of those, that would likewise be inform'd of the other causes of the proprieties of those waters;forasmuch as that, besides the mixture of the concrete matters found therein, there may also be found in them matters not concreted, so subtile and volatil,that there remains nothing in the sediments,that may come to be known to differ from the Salts and Earths, and which is not found any more in what passes by distillation. That sharp and vinous taste,above mentioned, which is lost in the Air and by heat,must have for its subject a spirituous & very volatil matter, which were worth the being known. Again, the heat which some waters have in their Sources, and at their issuing out of the Earth, may be ascribed to some hot vapours, that have mixed themselves with them in their course within the subterrancous depths, where the cold of the Air hath no free access: And certain particular effects of those waters upon divers subjects give occasion to judg, that they are not pure and uncompounded. And into these things this Royal Assembly are resolved to make further inquiries, both for the satisfaction of the Curious, and the benefit of the Publick. 3. Mean time the Observations of the Salts and Earths of these waters may, in their opinion, serve both in Physick and in mechanical Arts, to make us capable to judg of the agreeableness of some of these waters for certain uses and emploiments. The two kinds of Salts, to which they have reduced those of the Mineral waters of France, may have differences, which may divide each of those kinds into many species, as they have observ'd in the Salts that are extracted out of the Ashes of divers Plants, which they have noted to be like, some to true Nitre, others to Common Salt, and to retain the participation of the specifique propricties of their subjects. Again,some of the Earths found with the Salts in the sediments of Mineral waters evaporated or distilled,may also have particular uses, according to their differences. Some German Physicians have observ'd, that the white Earth of the Mineral waters of Swalbach is purgative:Some bottles of it were brought to the Parisian Academy, of a vinous and (619) and strong taste: The Salt of its sediment was nitrous, and made Sublimate dissolved in common water to precipitate in a Mother of pearl colour,as the Alcalies of Plants do. The Earth separated from this sediment was white like Creta; but there was not enough to try its purging virtue. The true Nitre of the Antients being sulphureous, and resembling the Plants of vegetables, hath, as they have, this faculty of moving the ~. And that white Earth,which is found with the Nitrous Salts of the Mineral waters, may participate of the same quality, even as the calx of Salt of Tartar, coagulated by the second Salt of Sea-water, retains some proprieties of its Salt, though it be insipid, and not dissoluble in water, but only in acid liquours, as is distilled vinegar, which dissolves it with an effervescence, which hath likewise been observ'd in many white Earths of Nitrous Mineral waters. 4. As to the Tastes of these waters transported, they could only judg of them by what they found when they received them: Those that are at the Spring-head may discern them better,especially those that are sharp and vinous, and whose taste decayes or is lost when they are kept, or exposed to the Air. They may also better come to know the degrees of their Coloration by the powder of Galls,by Oak-leaves,and the like; and judg more exactly of their consistence and weight. Which particulars could not be so well observ'd at such a distance, at which great changes may have befal'n the waters in several respects. 5. Concerning that Vaporous matter of the sharp and vinous Mineral waters; that seems to be the first Being of the Mineral sulphur, and of the concretions thence resulting. There are found Earths impregnated with this acid matter,being vaporo-sulphureous,of the concretion whereof somtimes are made sulphureous and vitriolique Minerals. And often there is not any Mineral concret made that is known, in those Earths, where no Mineral sulphur, nor Vitriol, nor Metal is found. This vaporous and indigested Mineral matter may very well be the principle of Vitriol; but in its first state it can't be a vitriolique production,if it be found in Earths where there is as yet no vitriol. It is more easy to observe it in its products,when it hath received some mineral concretion. The moist Air penetrating into the Mine-stones that are insipid, but impregnated with a Mineral sulphur, which makes it self sufficiently perceived when it is disingag'd by fire, manifests to the sense a sulphureous acidity, which was not perceiv'd in it. And of the concret sulphur of those Mine-stones or Marcasites, penetrated by the moist Air,there is form'd a vitriolique concret,which is the product of this Mineral sulphur, the principle of which was an acid and very vaporous matter. This subtile, vaporous, acid matter doth not alwaies produce vitriolique concrets; it hapning in many soils, that for want of necessary dispositions it remains in its first state. We have observed in many waters impregnated with this acid vapour,that for all this there was not any true vitriol in it,nor any thing that had any resemblance to Allum, and that the Salt which remain'd in their sediment was such Nitre as is described by the Antients,and which differs as much from Vitriol and Allum, as do the Alcalies or sulphureous fixed Salts of Plants. The (620) The Salts,Vitriols and Alums,and other concrets resoluble in water,may be so mingled in the Mineral waters,as not to be well perceived there but in their sediments; but the sulphurs and Bitums are alwaies obvious to be discerned in the waters wherein they are, because they reside in them, or swim on them, not being capable to be mixed with them as Salts are. Of these we have perceived none in the waters that were sent us. Those that were very hot in their sources, did not appear to us more sulphureous, or more bituminous than the other.And if you meet with Sulphur or Bitumen in their Basons against the walls of their inclosures, or in their mud, possibly there are not such matters inflamed within the Earth that have heated those waters; it being more probable,that such waters contract their heat by the mixture of some hot waters they meet with in the deep places where they pass;and experience proving, that no combustible matter takes fire, or any considerable time keeps it without Air; and that,to extinguish the fire of sulphurs and bitums inflamed, there needs no more than to exclude the Air from them. And if any matter (as Gun-powder in mines) takes fire strong enough not to be chok'd under ground, it bursts what covers it, thereby to be enlarged, and to take Air. If there be no constant subterraneal Fires, the heat of some Mineral waters,which continue to be hot in their sources, cannot be ascribed to them. 'Tis more likely, that in many places of the Earth there are hot vapors, the heat of which conserv'd in deep and close places, where the Air hath no access to cool them, and where those rarified matters have not room enough to be more rarified, and so to become less hot or more dissipated. And that such hot vapors are the cause of hot Springs and natural Baths, may be confirmed hence:1.Because these hotMineral waters do not burn the mouth of those that drink of them at the issue of their sources, as common water would do heated by fire to the same degree. Which seems to proceed from the thinness of the matter that causes this heat in the water. And the flame of spirit of wine doth not so strongly burn the hand, as a live coal would do. 2. Because the heat of Mineral waters works not upon certain tender substances, as doth that of common water, which is contracted by fire in the same intenseness: For, whereas the leaves of Sorrel (e.g.) are softn'd and quickly boyled in common water moderately heated by fire, they did not so in the Mineral waters of Nery in the Country of Bourbon, which are the hottest in all France; but they only changed colour and became yellowish. 3.Because the Mineral waters have no greater disposition to boyl upon the fire,than common cold waters, there being as much time requisite for the one as the other to make them boyl upon the fire,&c. Mean time, 'tis not so obvious to know the Qualities of these vapors thus heating the Mineral waters. It seems not necessary, they should all be Bituminous or Sulphureous,though some be so. There are many other substances that grow hot without taking fire, and the vapors of which mix themselves in hot Mineral waters, but the qualities of which are not discern'd but by the effects which they produce. As for the different Effects of the Mineral waters, both hot, tepid and cold, in reference to Health, the Parisian Academy left the observations thereof (621) thereof to Physicians: But as to their Uses in Mechanical Arts, they take notice of what some or other of them perform (e.g.) in the maceration of Hemp,in the whitening of Linnen, in the tincture of Wool and Silk, in the dressing of Leather,in the tempering of Iron,in the boyling of Legums, in the watering of Plants,in the drinking of Cattel,and the like. Touching the observations of their different Weights and Consistences, they intimate, that they can be better made at the spring-head,where they have not been alter'd in their composition,nor consistence. However they describe the particular Instruments by them employed for observations of this nature. III. COCHLEARIA Curiosa, or the Curiosities of Scurvy-grass, written in Latin by Dr. Andr. Molimbrochius of Leipsig, and English'd by Dr. Th. Sherley Physician in ordinary to his Majesty. London, in 80. 1676. THE Ingenious Interpreter of this Book being of opinion, that the Author hath handled the Subject thereof so fully, that there remains little more to be said upon it thanwhat he hath taken notice of,andbeing desirous that those of his Countrymen who are unacquainted with the Latin tongue might reap the benefit of it as well asScholars,thought good to employ those hours of vacancy,allow'd him from other business, to put it into English. Therein the Reader will find not only a Description of the several kinds of this Plant, with its several Names, Place and Time of growth, temperature,and general vertues,but also an enumeration of the particular uses, medicinal vertues, and manner of applying each part of this Plant; together with a good description of all sorts of Medicines preparable from it,either by the Galenick or Chymical way: Besides that it will instruct all sorts of persons, how to make Wines,Sauces,Syrups,and distill'd waters of this Plant,for the good of their sick and languishing neighbours. IV.Two Treatises;the one,Medical,of the GOVT;by Herman Busschof Senior, of Utrecht, residing at Batavia in the East-Indies; the other, partly Chirurgical,partly Medical, containing some Observations and Practices relating to some Extraordinary Cases of Women in Travel, and to some other uncommon Cases of Diseases in both Sexes; by Hen.van Roonhuyse, Physician in ordinary at Amsterdam. English'd out of Dutch. London in 80. 1676. THE Author of the first of these two Treatises, after he hath given us his thoughts of the true nature of the Gout,making it,in its true origin,a little inward swelling within the periostium or membran that covers the bones, caused from a dry and cold ill-natur'd vapour, driven thither out of the arteries,and by being there inclosed,distending that most sensible membran,and so producing violent pains; after,I say,he hath deliver'd this as the nature of this Disease,and withal examin'd all other opinions hitherto received of the same;He is very particular, from Experience,both made upon himself and others, in describing the Cure of the Gout, and that by burning with a soft and woolly substance, call'd Moxa, made by a skilful preparation of a certain dried Herb,highly valued by the Chineses and Jaeponeses; of which he sent over a quantity to his Brother at Utrecht, from whence Mr. Pitt in St. Pauls Church-yard hath procured a parcel for the use (622) use of those that are desirous to employ it, not only for this purpose of curing the Gout, but also for that of removing the Epilepsie, Madness, and Catalepsis. The other Treatise contains several happy cures of strange ruptures and other remarkable accidents of the Womb; the manner of performing the Cesarean Section,of curing the falling down of the womb,of curing wombs closed,and several closures of the Vagina uteri; of a happy cure of a Child's fundament closed, and of the Rupture of a Bladder; of the firm Union of the dura mater to the skull; of the modern Use and Abuse of Trepanning, which is here shew'd not to be so often necessary,nor useful,as is commonly pretended;of grievous wounds in the Head,well cured without the Trepan; of the manner of cutting Hare-mouths,and several successful operations thereof; of the happy cure of a wounded Nerve; and of an uncommon cure perform'd upon a woman, out of whose thigh a great piece of the bone was separated, without shortning her leg, or hindring the motion of her going. V. New and Curious Observations of the Art of Curing the VENEREAL DISEASE,&c. Written in French by M. de Blegny, Chirurgion to the French Queen; English't by Walter Harrys,M.D. lately Fellow of New Colledge in Oxford. London, 1676. in 80. THE Ingenious Author, and the Learn'd and diligent Interpreter of this piece have represented unto us therein the Nature, Origine, Causes Differences,Signs and Prognosticks of this Distemper; and given us divers considerable Observations on the Means to cure the same when it is but Particular, (that is,fixt to some parts) as also on the Natural and Critical Motions, when it turns to be Universal, and hath infected the whole body; and likewise on the Means serving to raise the Artificial Crisis of it; together with an explication of the true Method of artificially raising the Crises of the Universal Pox. That which seems most peculiar to this Book is, that the Author pretends to have established the Cause of the Pox upon Principles wholly new;viz.the Mixture and Confusion of the semen of many different persons, which at length exert their activities in this heterogeneous fermentation, degenerating into such a high malignancy as this Disease carries with it. But though the Author renders a New Cause of this Malady, yet hath he the testimony of the Medical Faculty of Paris, that they have not found any thing in his Method of Curing, that is not conformable to ancient received Maxims; they judging withal,that the New Observations,which it doth contain, will serve to increase an emulation, for the future, towards a more diligent search of the truth of things less known. 