Part of a Letter from Mr. Peter Derante, Chirurgeon in Waterford, to Mr. John Douglas, Chirurgeon, F. R. S concerning the coming off of the Scapula and Head of the Os Humeri, upon a Mortification. ON the 5th of November, 1713, One John Fletcher, on board the Neptune of Leverpool, had the Misfortune to break the Radius and Ulna (of his left Arm) and their Ends burst thro' the Skin. He was immediately dress'd by the Surgeon of the Ship with the common Astringents and Bandage; about five or six Days afterwards I was sent for to go down to Passage to see this Man. When I came there, I found his Surgeon along with him, who told me, That the Man would do very well, because he was in no pain at all; however, I desir'd him to take off the Dressings, and let me look on't. Which being done, I found it was black and insensible from his Fingers to his Shoulder, and therefore advis'd the Extirpation of it immediately, but his Surgeon oppos'd it; however, I scarified it in several Places, and very deep, and then apply'd a warm Dressing. Next Day the Ship put to Sea, and the poor C 2 Creature (16) Creature was sent to Waterford, and committed to my Care. As soon as I could get my Apparatus ready, I cut off his Arm (in presence of Dr. Renet, and Mr. ~ an Apothecary) as high as possible; then I cauterized the Stump, which was perfectly mortified as high as the Acromion. Next Day I perceiv'd the Mortification spreading toward the lower Angle of the Scapula, then I rubb'd the Edges of the Mortification with armed Probes dipt in a Solution of Argentum Vivum in Aq. Fort. which compleatly answer'd my Intention; for from that time the Mortification spread no further; next Dressing I scarified and cauterized all the mortified part, and dress'd it S. A. I continued this Method for seventeen or eighteen Days, and then the Sloughs began to separate and cast off daily; some time afterwards the Scapula began to part from the Os Humeri and Clavicula, and at length came out whole; I was then put to it what to do about the stump of the Os Humeri, which still adhered to the Pectoralis and Latissimus Dorsi; but in a little time it also separated and came away, without any Hemorrhage succeeding~ which I expected. I was afterwards obliged to cut off part of the Clavicula, before I could cicatrize the Wound, which was soon afterwards accomplished. I have the Scapula and Head of the Os Humeri still in my Custody, and have shewn them to many Surgeons and Physicians. All Waterford is Witness of this Fact, and they called him ever afterwards Three Quarters of a Man. I am, &c. Waterford, Jan. 1721/2. Pet. Derante. 