C 1602 XIV. On fluid Chlorine. By M. FARADAY, Chemical Assistant in the Royal Institution. Communicated by Sir H. DAVY, Bart. Pres. R. S. Read March 13, 1823. IT is well known that before the year 1810, the solid substance obtained by exposing chlorine, as usually procured, to a low temperature, was considered as the gas itself reduced into that form; and that SiR HUMPHRY DAVY first showed it to be a hydrate, the pure dry gas not being condensible even at a temperature of-4o0 F. I took advantage of the late cold weather to procure crystals of this substance for the purpose of analysis. The results are contained in a short paper in the Quarterly Journal of Science, Vol. XV. Its composition is very nearly 27.7 chlorine, 72.3 water, or i proportional of chlorine, and lo of water. The President of the Royal Society having honoured me by looking at these conclusions, suggested, that an exposure of the substance to heat under pressure, would probably lead to interesting results; the following experiments were commenced at his request. Some hydrate of chlorine was prepared, and being dried as well as could be by pressure in bibulous paper, was introduced into a sealed glass tube, the upper end of which was then hermetically closed. Being placed in water at 600, it underwent no change; but when put into water at 1ooo, the substance fused, the tube became Mr. FARADAY Onjfid chlorzne. 161 filled with a bright yellow atmosphere, and, on examination, was found to contain two fluid substances: the one, about three-fourths of the whole, was of a faint yellow colour, having very much the appearance of water; the remaining fourth was a heaavy bright yellow fluid, lying at the bottom of the former, without any apparent tendency to mix with it. As the'tube cooled, the yellow atmosphere condensed into more of the yellow fluid, which floated in a film on the pale fluid, looking very like chloride of nitrogen ; and at 7Q0 the pale -portion congealed, although even at520 the yellow portion did not solidify. Heated up to too? the yellow fluid appeared to boil, and again produced the bright coloured atmosphere. By putting the hydrate into a bent tube, afterwards hermetically sealed, I found it easy, after decomposing it by aWheat of iooO, to distil the yellow fluid to one end of the tube, and so separate it from the remaining portion. In -this way a more complete decomposition of the hydrate was effected, and, when the whole was allowed to cool, neither of the fluids solidified at temperatures above s4?, and the yellow portion not even at oo. When-the two were mixed together they gradually combined at temperatures below 60? and formed the same solid substances as that first introduced. If, when the fluidswere separated, the tube was cut in the middle, the parts flew asunder as if with an explosion, the whole of the yellow portion disappeared, and there was a powerful atmosphere of chlorine produced; the pale portion on the contrary remained, and when examined, proved to be a weak solution of chlorine in water, with a little muriatic acid, probably from the impurity of the hydrate used. When that end of the tube in which the yellow fluid lay was broken under MxDCCCXXII, Y 162 Mr. FARADAY on]!id chlorine.a jarof water, there was an immediate production of chlorine gas. I at first thought that muriatic acid and euchlorine had been formed; then that two new hydrates of chlorine had been produced; but at last I suspected that the chlorine had been entirely separated from the water by the heat, and condensed into a dry fluidby the mere pressure of its own abundant vapour. If that were true, it followed, that chlorine gas, when compressed, should be condensed into the same fluid, and, as the atmosphere in the tube in which the fluid lay was not'very yellow at 50? or 6o00 it seemed probable that the pressurerequired was not beyond what could readily be ob-. tamed by a condensing syringe. A long tube was therefore furnished with a cap and stop-cock, then exhausted or air and filled with chlorine, and being held vertically with the syringe upwards, air was forced in, which thrust the 'chlorine to the bottom of the tube, and gave a pressure of about 4 atmospheres. Being now cooled, there was an immediate deposit in films, which appeared to be hydrate, formed by water contained in the gas and vessels, but some of the yellow fluid: was' also produced. As this however might also con.-tamn. a portion of the water present, a perfectly dry tube and apparatus were taken, and the chlorine left for some time over a bath of sulphuric acid before it was introduced. -Upon throwing tin air and giving pressure, there was now no solid film -formed, but the clear yellow fluid was deposited, and more abundantly still uponcooling. After remaining some time it disappeared, having gradually mixed with the atmosphere above it, but every repetition of the experiment produced the same results. Mr. FARADAY on fluid chlorine. l63 Presuming that I had now a right to consider the yellow fluid as pure chlorine in the liquid state-, I proceeded to examine its properties as well as I could when obtained by heat from the hydrate. However obtained, it always appears very limpid and fluid, and excessively volatile at common preyssure. A portion was cooled in its tube to o0: it remained fluid. The tube was then opened, when a part immediately flew off, leaving the rest so cooled by the evaporation as to remain a fluid under the atmospheric pressure. The temperature could not have been higher than -40 in this case; as Sir HUMPHRY DAVY has shown that dry chlorine does not condense at that temperature, under common pressure. Another tube was opened at a temperature of boo ; a part of the chlorine volatilised, and cooled the tube so much as t6 condense the atmospheric vapour on it as ice. A tube having the water at one end and the chlorine at the other was weighed and then cut in two ; the chlorine immediately flew off, and the loss being ascertained was found to be i.6 grains: the water left was examined and found to contain some chlorine : its weight was ascertained to be 5.4 grains. These proportionshowever, must not be considered as indicative of the true composition of hydrate of chlorine; for, from the mildness of the weather during the time when these -experiments were made, it was impossible tocollect the crystals of hydrate, press, an& transfer them, without losing much .chlorine; and it is also impossible to separate the chlorine and water in the tube perfectly, or keep them separate, as the atmosphere within will combine with the water, and gradually reform the hydrate. Before-cutting the tube, another tube had been prepared 164 Mr. FARADAY onfluid chlorine. exactly like it in form and size, and a portion of water introduced into it, as near as the eye could judge, of the same bulk as the fluid chlorine: this water was found to weigh . grains;, a result, which, if it may be trusted would give the specific gravity of fluid chlorine as i.US.; and from its appearance in, and on water, this cannot be far wrong N'ote on the condensation of Muriatic Acid Gas into the liquid form. By Sir H. DAVY, Bart. Pres. R. S. IN desiring Mr. FARADAY to expose the hydrate of chlorine to heat in a closed glass tube, it occurred to me, that one, of three things would happen; that it would become fluid as a hydrate; or that a decomposition of water would occur and euchlorine and muriatic acid be formed; or that -the chlorine would separate in a condensed state.This last result having been obtained, it evidently led to other re--searches of the same kind. I shall hope, on a future -occasion, to detail some general views on the subject of these, researches. I shall now merely mention, that by sealing muriate of ammonia and sulphuric acid in a strong glass tube, -and causing them to act upon each other, I have procured liquid muriatic acid: and by substituting carbonate for munate of ammonia, I have no doubt that carbonic acid may be obtained, though in the only trial I have made the tube burst. .I have requested Mr. FARADAY to pursue these experiments, and to extend them -to all, the gases which are of considerable density, or to any extent soluble in water; and I bhope soon to be able to lay an account of his results, with Mr. FARADAY on fluid chlorine. 165 some applications of them' that I propose to. make, before the Society. I, cannot conclude this note without observing that the generation of elastic substances in. close vessels, either with or without heat, offers much more powerful means of approximating their molecules than those dependent upon the application of cold, whether natural or artificial: for, as gases diminish only about H in volume for every -degree of FAHRENHEIT'S scale, beginning at ordinary temperatures a very slight condensation only can be produced by the most powerful freezing mixtures, not half as much as would result from the application of a strong flame to one part -of a glass tube, the other part being of ordinary temperature: and when attempts are made to condense gases into fluids by sudden mechanical compression, the heat, instantly generated, presents a formidable obstacle to the success of the experiment; whereas, in the compression resulting from their slow generation in close vessels if the process be conducted with common precautions, there is no source of difficulty or danger; and it may be easily assisted by artificial cold in cases when gases approach near to that pointof compression and temperature at which they become vapours, 