A Letter of Dr. Wallis, Dated Oxford, Sept. 6. 1697. Containing some Additions to his Letter about Thunder and Lightning, and a Correction of his 109th Cap. of his Algebra. I Find that in your Transactions Numb. 231. for the Month of August, you have Printed my Letter of July 26. If it had not been too late, I would have added, That, when I said, A Mixture of Sulphur and Filings (730) lings of Steel, with the admission of a little Water, will not only cause a great Effervescence, but will of it self break forth into an actual Fire; I said expresly, a little Water; because too much Water will hinder the Operation, or quench the Fire. Which I take to be the Case of the Bath-Waters, where Steel and Sulphur cause a great Effervescence, but no Flame. And the like of other Hot Springs. And I do not confine it to this particular Mixture; for the Chymists, I presume, may furnish us with divers others. And therefore I said, or somewhat equivalent. But I gave Instance of this sor one. I would have added also, That the same Account may be given of AEtna (and other burning Mountains;) where the Mixture of Steel and Sulphur may give a Flame; which is oft attended with prodigious Explosions (and Earth-quakes) from great Quantities of Niter, as in springing a Mine. I shall also take this Occasion to rectify some Numbers which I find to have been mistaken in my Treatise of Algebra, at Cap. 109. which though they do not vitiate the Demonstration (which will hold as well when these be rectified) yet I think fit to correct them, that they may not give the Reader a trouble. In Algebrae meae Cap. CIX. irrepserunt Numeri vitiosi. Qui quamvis summam Demonstrationis non evertant, sunt tam rectificandii. Propositum est, Datum Cubum (cujus latus ponatur = 1,) ita perforare, ut Cubus alter, ~ aequalis, per foramen transeat. Quod cum pluribus madis fieri possit, hunc selegis. Intelligatur Cubus perforailus, Sphaerae inscriptus; Cujus itaq; Diameter seu Axis erit (aequalis Diagonio Cubi) =~ 3. Cujus Polos occepent Cubi Angulus A, & huic oppositus latens. Reliquiq; sex Anguli (731) Anguli B C D E F G, in planum per Centrum (Axi ad Angulos rectos) projiciantur. Non quod illi omnes sint in eodem plano; sed B D F sunt in plano superiori quod ab A (polo proximo) distat Axis triente; reliquiq; C E G, in plano huic parallelo quod tantundem distat ab opposito polo latente. Sed omnes hi Anguli, demissis in planum illud per centrum perpendicularibus projecti, formabunt in illo hexagonum regulare BCDEFG. Cui si intelligatur Circulus circumscriptus; non erit ille, Circulus Sphaerae maximus (quia puncta sic projecta non pertingunt ad extremum ambitum Circuli Sphaerae maximi per centrum;) sed qualis ille est qui per BDF, vel per CEG, transit. Cujus itaq; Diameter est =~ 8/3. Et P B =~ 16. Et P G =~1/2: Et B M =~2/3-1/2. Et M Q =~2-1/2~3. Cum itaq; M H =1/2=0. 500. (semilatus incumbentis Cubi transituri) minus sit quam M Q =~2-1/2~3=0. 548+; Manifestum est (facto foramine HIKL) transire posse cubum incumbentem, perforato aequalem. VIII. 