A certain Phaenomenon, seen by Monsieur Havelius, Feb. 5. 1674. St. No. not far from Marienburg in Boroussia -about the Sun a little before his setting and the Moon's conjunction, and the Sun's Eclipse, (which yet was not seen by him.) I Saw at that time (saith the Observer) the Sun, in a sky every where serene enough, being yet some degrees above the Horizon, and shining very bright, yet lancing out very long and reddish rays, 40 or 50 degrees toward the Zenith (as appears Fig. 3.) Under the Sun, towards the Horizon, there hung a somewhat dilute small Cloud, beneath which there appear'd a MockSun, of the same bigness (to sense) with the true Sun, and under the same Vertical, of a somewhat red colour. Soon after, the true Sun more and more descending to the Horizon, towards the said Cloud (as may be seen Fig. 4.) the spurious Sun beneath it grew clearer and clearer, so as that the reddish colour in that apparent Solar disk vanish'd, and put on the genuine Solar light, and that the more, the less the genuine disk of the Sun was distant from the false Sun: Till at length the upper true Sun passed into the lower counterfeit one, and so remained alone; as appears Fig. 5. Which Appearance being unusual, and having never been seen by me, I took the freedom of imparting it unto you, especially since here the Mock-Sun was not found at the side of the true Sun, as 'tis wont to be in all Parhelia's seen by me, but perpendicularly under it; not to mention the Colour, so different from (27) from that which is usual in Mock-Suns; nor the great length of the Tayl, cast up by the genuine Sun, and of a far more vivid and splendid light, than Parhelia's use to exhibit. Upon this appearance there soon follow'd here an exceedingly intense and bitter Frost, whereby the whole Sinus Puzensis was frozen up from this Town of Dantzick, as far as Hela in the Baltick Sea, which lasted unto the 25th of March; and the Bay was frozen so hard, that with great safety people run out into it with Sleds and Horses, for several of our Miles. Whether the recited Phaenomenon have had any influence for this extream Cold, I know not, but leave it for Astrologers to examine. Whether the like Appearance have ever been observ'd in England, I should be glad to be informed of. A 2 L 3 4 5 N E G D H B I 