PI1LOSOP IICAL T RAN1XSA C T I ON S OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LON DO No FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXXXVI. PART I. LONDON: PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET. MDCCCXXXVI. ADVERTISEMENT. THE Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume: the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And. this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued. But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them;, without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors. It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, a 2 [ iv ] upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions, and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the autthors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited to the dishonour of the Society. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each year, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.In the British Dominions. The King's Library. The British Museum. Sion College Library. The Bodleian Library, Oxford. The Radcliffe Library, Oxford. The Cambridge University Library. The Edinburgh College Library. Advocates' Library, Edinburgh. The University of Glasgow. The University of Aberdeen. The University of St. Andrews. The University of Trinity College, Dublin. The Library of King's Inn, Dublin. The Royal Geographical Society. The United Service Museum. The Royal College of Physicians. The Society of Antiquaries. The Linnean Society. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Society for the Encouragement of Arts. The Geological Society. The Horticultural Society. The Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Asiatic Society. The Medical and Chirurgical Society. The London Institution. TheCambridge University Philosophical Society. The Royal Society of Edinburgh. The Royal Irish Academy. the Royal Dublin Society. The Asiatic Society at Calcutta. The Royal Artillery Library at Woolwich. The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Madras. The Observatory at St. Helena. The Observatory at Paramatta. Denmark. The Royal Society of Sciences at Copenhagen. The Royal Observatory at Altona.France. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Thoulouse. The E'cole des Mines at Paris. The Geographical Society at Paris. The Entomological Society of France. The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Geological Society of France,, The Jardin des Plantes, Paris. Germany. The University at G6ttingen. The Ca-sarean Academy of Naturalists at Bornn The Observatory at Manheim. Italy. The Italian Society of Sciences at Modena. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Turin. Switzerland. The Societe de Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. at Geneva. Belgium. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Brussels. Spain. The Royal Observatory at Cadiz. Portugal. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Lisbon. Prussia. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. Russia. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. Sweden and Norway. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, The Royal Society of Sciences at Drontheim, United States. The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The New York Philosophical Society. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston. The Library of Harvard College. The fifty Foreign Members of the Royal Society. A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich. on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.In the British Domznions. The King's Library. The Board of Ordnance. The British Museum. The Royal Society. The Bodleian Library, Oxford. The Savilian Library, Oxford. The Library of Trinity College, Cambridge. The King's Observatory at Richmond. The Royal Observatory at Greenwich. The University of Aberdeen. The University of St. Andrews. The University of Dublin. The University of Edinburgh. The University of Glasgow. The Observatory at Oxford. The Observatory at Cambridge. The Observatory at Dublin. The Observatory at Armagh. The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The Observatory at Paramatta. The Observatory at Madras. The Observatory at St. Helena. The Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Institution of Great Britain. The Royal Society, Edinburgh. The Astronomical Institution, Edinburgh. The President of the Royal Society. The Lowndes'sProfessor ofAstronomyCambridge. The Plumian Professor of Astronomy, Cambridge. Francis Baily, Esq. V.P. and Treas. R.S. Thomas Henderson, Esq. of Edinburgh. John William Lubbock, Esq. Captain W. H. Smyth, R.N. of Bedford. Sir James South, Observatory, Kensington. Lieutenant Stratford, R.N. Mr. Thomas Taylor, Greenwich.In Foreign Countries. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Peterse burgh. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm. The Royal Society of Sciences at Upsal. The Board of Longitude of France. The University of G6ttingen. The University of Leyden. The Academy of Bologna. The American Academy of Sciences at Boston The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia. The Library of Harvard College. The Observatory at Abo. The Observatory at Altona. The Observatory at Berlin. The Observatory at Brussels. The Observatory at Cadiz. The Observatory at Coimbra. The Observatory at Copenhagen. The Observatory at Dorpat. The Observatory at K6nigsberg.2 The Observatory at Manheim. The Observatory at Marseilles. The Observatory at Milan. The Observatory at Palermo. The Observatory at Paris. The Observatory at Seeberg. The Observatory at Vienna. The Observatory at Wilna. Professor Bessel, of Kdnigsberg. Dr. William Olbers, of Bremen. The Depot de la Marine, Paris. The Bowden College, United States. The Waterville College, United States ROYAL MEDALS. HIS MAJESTY KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, graciously Commanded a Letter, of which the following is an extract, to be addressed to the Royal Society, through His Royal Highness the DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G., President: " Windsor Castle, March 25, 1833. "It is His MAJESTY'S wish,"First, That the Two Gold Medals, value of Fifty Guineas each, shall "henceforth be awarded on the day of the Anniversary Meeting of the "Royal Society, on each ensuing year, for the most important discoveries in any one principal subject or branch of knowledge. "Secondly, That the subject matter of inquiry shall be previously settled "and propounded by the Council of the Royal Society, three years pre"ceding the day of such award. "Thirdly, That Literary Men of all nations shall be invited to afford the "aid of their talents and research: and, "Fourthly, That for the ensuing three successive years, the said Two "Medals shall be awarded to such important discoveries, or series of in"vestigations, as shall be sufficiently established, or completed to the "satisfaction of the Council, within the last five years of the days of award "for the years 1834 and 1835, including the present year, and for which "the Author shall not have previously received an honorary reward. (Signed) "H. TAYLOR." [ vii'i ] The Royal Medals for the year 1833 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHIEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Paper on the Investigation of the Orbits of Revolving Double Stars; and to PROFESSOR AUGUSTE PYRAME DE CANDOLLE, of Geneva, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his Discoveries and Investigations in Vegetable Physiology. Those for 1834 were awarded to JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, ESQ., V.P. & TREAS. R.S., for his Papers on the Tides published in the Philosophical Transactions; and to CHARLES LYELL, EsQ., for his Work entitled '" Principles of Geology." Those for the present year have been awarded to MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L., for his Investigations and Discoveries contained in the Series of Experimental Researches in Electricity, published in the Philosophical Transactions, and more particularly for the Seventh Series, relating to the definite nature of electrochemical action ; and to SIR WILLIAM ROWAN HAMILTON, Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland, for the Papers published by him in the 16th and 17th volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, entitled "Supplement to an Essay on the Theory of " Systems of Rays," and more particularly for those Investigations at the conclusion of the third and last Supplement, which relate to the discovery of Conical Refraction. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836, to the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836 to the [ ix ] inost important unpublished paper in Animal Physiology, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 27th, 1834,) and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper, to be entitled " Contributions towards a System of Geo" logical Chronology founded on an examination of fossil remains, and their attendant "phenomena," such paper to be communicated to the Royal Society after the present date (December Ist, 1834,) and prior to the month of June 1837:-but in case no paper is presented to the Society fulfilling the conditions implied by the above Resolution, or possessing sufficient merit, the Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper in Geology and Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the present date and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper on Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 12th, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in the Philosophical Transactions, after the present date (November 19, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. C O N T E N T S. J. Researches on the Tides.-Fourth Series. On the Empirical Laws of the. Tides4 in the Port of Liverpool. By the Rev. W. WHEWELL, M.A. F.R.S. . . page I IJ. Researches towards establishing a Theory of the Dispersion of Light. No. II. By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A. F.R.S. Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford. ..7 III. An Account of the great Earthquake experienced in Chile on the 20th of February, 1835; with a Map. By ALEXANDER CALDCLEUGH, Esq. F. R.S. F. G.S., c'c. 2 IV. Some Account of the Volcanic Eruption of Cosegiina in the Bay of Fonseca, cornmonly called the Bay of Conchagua, on the Western Coast of Central America. By ALEXANDER CALDCLEUGH, Esq., F.R.S. F.G.S., 8sc. . . . . e 27 V. Memoranda made during the appearance of the Aurora Borealis on the 18th qf November, 1835. By CHARLES C. CHRISTIE, Esq. M.A. Communicated jy S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. $ . c.. 31 VI. On the Anatomical and Optical Structure of the Crystalline Lenses of Animals Continued from a former Paper (Phil. Trans. 1833, p. 332.). By Sir DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LL.D. F.R.S. Ssc. Ssc. 35 VII. On an Artficial Substance resembling Shell: by LEONARD HORNER, Esq. F.RS8. Lond. ' Edinb. With an Account of an Examination of the same : by Sir DAVID BREWSTER, LL.D. F.R.S. *Sc. . . . . . . . . . . . . e 49 VIII. Discussion of Tide Observations made at Liverpool. By J. W. LUBBOCK, Esq. F.R.S. 57 IX. Geometrical Investigations concerning the Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetisn.I Second Series:-On the Number of Points at which a magnetic needle can take a position vertical to the Earth's surface. By THOMAS STEPHENS DAVIES, Esq., F.R.SS. L. 8S E. F.R.A.S. Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. . . 7 75 X. On Voltaic Combinations. In a Letter addressed to MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C. L. F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. (hem. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal 8S Imp. Acadd. of Science, Paris, Petersburgh, &c. By J. FREDERIC DANIELL, F.R.S., Prof. C~hem. in King's College, London. . . e It . . . . . . 107 [ xii Xl. Additional Observations on Voltaic Combinations. In a Letter addressed to MICHAEL FARADAY, D. C.L. F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal 8f Imp. Acadd. of Science, Paris, Petersburgh, &jc. By T. FREDERIC DANIELL, F.R.S., Prof. Chem. in King's College, London. page 125 XII. Researches on the Tides.--Fifth Series. On the Solar Inequality and on the Diurnal Inequality of the Tides at Liverpool. By the Rev. WILLIAM WHEWELL, FPR.S., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. 131 XIII. On the Action of Light upon Plants, and of Plants upon the Atmosphere. By CHARLES DAUBENY, M.D. F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry and of Botany in the University of Oxford. 149 XIV. Researches in the Integral Calculus.-Part I. By H. F. TALBOT,Esq.F.R.S. 177 APPENDIX. Meteorological, Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council. aHILOSOPHICAL OF THE 'ROYAL SOCIET-Y OF tL 0 N D 0 Ne FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXXXVI. PART II. LONDON:PINTED BY RICHAIR1) TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREEt. IHDCCCXXXVJ. ROYAL MEDALS. HIS MAJESTY KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, graciously Commanded a Letter, of which the following is an extract, to be addressed to the Royal Society, through His Royal Highness the DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G., President: "Windsor Castle, March 25, 1833. "It is His MAJESTY'S wish,"First, That the Two Gold Medals, value of Fifty Guineas each, shall <' henceforth be awarded on the day of the Anniversary Meeting of the "Royal Society, on each ensuing year, for the most important discoveries "in any one principal subject or branch of knowledge. "Secondly, That the subject matter of inquiry shall be previously settled "and propounded by the Council of the Royal Society, three years pre"ceding the day of such award. c" Thirdly, That Literary Men of all nations shall be invited to afford the "aid of their talents and research: and, "Fourthly, That for the ensuing three successive years, the said Two "Medals shall be awarded to such important discoveries, or series of in"vestigations, as shall be sufficiently established, or completed to the "satisfaction of the Council, within the last five years of the days of award, "for the years 1834 and 1835, including the present year, and for which "the Author shall not have previously received an honorary reward. (Signed) "H. T AYLOR. a 2 [ iv ] The Royal Medals for the year 1833 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Paper on the Investigation of the Orbits of Revolving Double Stars; and to PROFESSOR AUGUSTE PYRAME DE CANDOLLE, of Geneva, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his Discoveries and Investigations in Vegetable Physiology. Those for 1834 were awarded to JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, ESQ., V.P. & TREAS. R.S., for -his Papers on the Tides published in the Philosophical Transactions; and to CHARLES LYELL, ESQ., F.R.S., for his Work entitled "Principles of Geology." Those for I835 were awarded to MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L., F.R.S., for his Investigations and Discoveries contained in the Series of Experimental Researches in Electricity, published in the Philosophical Transactions, and more particularly for the Seventh Series, relating to the definite nature of electro-chemical, action; and to SIR WILLIAM ROWAN HAMILTON, Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in ttle University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland, for the Papers published by him in the 16th and 17th volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, entitled "'Supplement to an Essay on the Theory of "Systems of Rays," and more particularly for those Investigations at the conclusion of the third and last Supplement, which relate to the discovery of Conical Refraction. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836, to the most important unpublished paper in Astronomy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th., 1833,) and prior to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1836 to the [v 3 most important unpublished paper in Animal Physiology, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (May 13th, 1833,) and prior. to the month of June in the year 1836. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (Novemnber 27th, 1834,) and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper, to be entitled "Contributions towards a System of Geo"logical Chronology founded on an examination of fossil remains, and their attendant "phenomena," such paper to be communicated to the Royal Society after the present date (December 1st, 1834,) and prior to the month of June 1837 :-but in case no paper is presented to the Society fulfilling the conditions implied by the above Resolution, or possessing sufficient merit, the Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1837 to the author of the best paper in Geology and Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions after the present date and prior to the month of June in that year. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper on Chemistry, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in their Transactions, after the present date (November 12th, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1838 to the most important unpublished paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society for insertion in the Philosophical Transactions, after the present date (November 19, 1835,) and prior to the month of June 1838. Those for 1836 were awarded to SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCLIEL, K.H. F.R.S., for his Papers on Nebulae and Clusters of Stars, published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833; and to GEORGE NEWPORT, ESQ., for his Series of Investigations on the Anatomry and Physiology of Insects, contained C vi 3 in his two Papers published in the Philosophical Transactions within the last three years. The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1839 to the most important unpublished Paper in Astronomy, communicated for insertion in their Transactions after the present date, (November 30th, 1836,) and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1839. The Council also propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1839 to the most important unpublished Paper in Physiology, communicated for insertion in their Transactions after the present date, (November 30th, 1836,) and prior to the tern mination of the Session in June 1839. CO NT ENT So XV. THE BAKERIAN LECTURE.-On the Tides at the Port of London. By JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, Esq. F.R.S. . . page 217 XVI. Report of Magnetic Experiments tried on Board an Iron Steam-Vessel, by Order of the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. By EDWARD J. JOHNSON, Esq. Commander R.N. Accompanied by Plans of the Vessel, and Tables showing the Horizontal Deflection of the Magnetic Needle at different Positions on board, together with the Dip and Magnetic Intensity observed at those Positions, and compared with Observations made on shore with the same Instruments. Addressed to CHARLES WOOD, Esq. M.P. Sc. Syc., and communicated by Captain BEAUFORT, R.N. F.R.S. Hydrographer to the Admiralty, by Command of the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty ... 267 XVII. Researches on the Tides.-Sixth Series. On the Results of an extensive system of Tide Observations made on the coasts of Europe and America in June 1835. By the Rev. WILLIAM WHEWELL, M.A. F.R.S. Fellow of Trinity College, Carzbride ..do e 289 XVIII. On the Powers on which the Functions of Life in the more perfect 4nimals depend, and on the Manner in which they are associated in the production of their mlore complicated results. By A. P. W. PHILIP, M.D. F.R.S. L. 8 E. Syc. 343 XIX. Discussion of the Magnetical Observations made by Captain BACK, R.N. during his late Arctic Expedition. By S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. 8Sc. 377 XX. Inquiries concerning the Elementary Laws of Electricity. Second Series. By W. SNOW HARRIS, F.R.S. Syc. 417 XXI. Note relative to the supposed Origin of the Deficient Rays in the Solar Spectrum; being an Account of an Experiment made at Edinburgh during the Annular Eclipse of 15th May 1836. By JAMES D. FORBES, Esq. F.R.SS. L. 8S E. F. G.S. Syc., and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edin burgh ....!f.... ..ee* s*@*****453 [ viii ] XXII. A Comparison of the late Imperial Standard Troy Pound weight with a Platina copy of the same, and with other standards of authority. Communicated by Professor SCHUMACHER, For. Memb. R.AS., in a Letter to F. BAILY, Esq., V.P. and Treas. R.S. page 457 XXIII. On the Brain of the Negro, compared with that of the European and the OrangOutang. By Dr. FREDERICK TIEDEMANN, Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the University of Heidelberg, and Foreign Member of theRoryal Society.. 497 XXIV. On the Respiration of Insects. By GEORGE NEWPORT, Esq., Mfember of the Ro~yal College of Surgeons, and of the Entomological Society of London. Communicated by P. M. ROGET, M.D., Sec. R.S. 529 XXV. On the Connexion of the Anterior Columns of the Spinal Cord with the Cerebellum. By SAMUEL SOLLY, Esq., Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology at St. Thomas's Hospital. Communicated by P. M. ROGET, M.D. Sec. R.S. 567 XXVI. On the Temperatures and Geological Relations of certain Hot Springs, particularly those of the Pyrenees; and on the Vercation of Thermometers. By JAMES D. FORBES, Esq. F.R.SS. L. 8 E., F. G.S., Sjc., and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh .. 571 APPENDIX. Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council. 