(310) jection to the new Hypothesis of the Generation of Animals from Animalcula in Semine Masculino. By Dr. Martin Lister, Fellow of the Colledge of Physicians and Royal Society. V. An Abstract with some Reflections on a new Account of East-India and Persia, in Eight Letters, being Nine Years Travels, begun 1672. and finished 1681, &c. By John Fryer, M. D. Cantabrig. and Fellow of the Royal Society. Printed for R.Chiswel at the Rose and Crown in St. Paul's Church-Yard. 1698. I. Part of a Letter from Ralph Thoresby, Esq; F. R. S. to John Evelyn, Esq; F. R. S. concerning some Roman Antiquities lately found in Yorkshire. SIX Months ago I sent to Dr. Lister a large Account of the Texture and Figure of an old Roman Shield of the Parma Kind, that I had then newly procured; I have since got another Curiosity relating to their Plasticks, 'tis part of the Bottom (which consisted of several such Pieces for the Conveniency of Baking) of an old Roman Coffin, that was lately dug up in their Burying-Place out of BouthamBar at York, (whence I had the Bricks and Urns mentioned in the last November Transactions) 'tis of the Red Clay but not so fine as the Urns, having a greater Quantity of course Sand wrought in with the Clay; as to the Form (which is entire as it was at first moulded) 'tis Fourteen Inches and an half long, and <inferred>about</inferred> (311) about Eleven broad at the narrower End, and <inferred>night</inferred> Twelve and an half at the broader; this was the lowest part, for the Feet and the rest were proportionably broader till it came to the Shoulders; 'tis an Inch thick besides the Ledges,which are One broad and Two thick, and extend from the bottom of either side to within Three Inches of the top, where 'tis wholly flat, and somewhat thinner for the next to lye upon it, which several Parts were, thus joyn'd together by some Pin, I presume, for at the end of each Tile is a Hole that wou'd receive a common Slate-Pin, these Edges are wrought a little hollow, to receive the Sides, I suppose, and at the Feet are Two contrary Notches to fasten the End-piece, this Bottom I should conclude to have consisted strictly of Eight such Parts, from a like Character 8 imprest upon the Clay by the Sandapilarius' s Finger before its Baking, but that I somewhat doubt whether Numeral Figures be of that Antiquity in these European Parts, tho'I see no reason to conclude that because the Romans used the Numeral Letters upon their more durable Monuments, that they were utterly Strangers to these Figures, which (notwithstanding the common Opinion of their Novelty here) the learned Dr. Wallis thinks as old at least, as the Times of Hermannus Contractus, An. Dom. 1050. and produces an unexceptionable Testimony of their Use here in England An. 1133. (Philosoph. Transact. Numb. 154.) I got also some Scars of broken Urns, dug up in Mr. Giles's Garden, which are of the finest blew Clay I have seen, with which was found a Roman Shuttle, about Three Inches and an half long, but not one broad in the very middle, the hollow for the Licium being but one fourth of an Inch in the broadest Place, shews that it was either for Silk or very fine Linnen, perhaps their Asbestinum or Incombustible Winding-Sheets. I have also lately procur'd a Roman Pottle from Aldbrough, (312) brough, which is of the Red Clay, but much courser than the York Urns: I was well pleased to find it whole, that I might observe the difference betwixt their Congius (of which I take this to be strictly the half) and our Gallon, and this comes the nighest Mr. Graves's Computation, containing Three Pints and an half the Winchester Measure. The last Week I received a valuable Present of Two and Twenty old Roman Coins, from Mr. Townely of Townely, which were lately found in the Parish of Burnley in Lancashire, which are the more acceptable, because many of them are Consular, or Family Coins, one of them, viz. Q. Cassius, was 162 Years ante Christum according to Goltzius's Method, being strictly the same he places An. Urb. Cond. 589. That they were the ancient Roman Denarii,and Coin'd before the Emperors Times (notwithstanding the contrary Sentiments of some Learned Men) I think is evident, because there is mostly, instead of the Emperor's Head, the antick Form of the Caput Urbis without Inscription, besides, Tacitus calls these Bigati and Quadrigati, pecuniam veterem ac diu notam: Again others have upon them ROMA, which I find not used by any of the Emperors, (except those small Pieces upon the Translation of the Empire to Constantinople) again, the Letters in these are often interwoven, as particularly V-L in one I have of L. Valerius Flaccus A.V.C. CDXCII. which according to Goltzius, is the Seventh Year after the Romans first stampt Silver Monies; and to mention no more, many are of the Serrato's filed in small Notches round the Edge, of which Sort I have of Scipio ~ &c. and other Consular Pieces. but never saw any of a later Date. II. An 