(815) Num.133. Beginning the Thirteenth year. PHILOSOPHICAL T R A N S A C T I O N S. March 25. 1677. The C O N T E N T S. The Preface to the Thirteenth year of these Tracts. Some Observations and Advertisements, tending to improve Gardens and other Land. Observations concerning various little Animals, in great numbers discover'd by Mr. Leewenhoeck in RainWellSeaand Snow-water, as also in water wherein Pepper had lain infused. Some new Observations made by Signor Cassini concerning the two Planets about Saturn, not long since discover'd by the same. An Account of some Books: I. PHARMACOPOEIA Collegii Regalis Londini; II.Catalogus PLANTARUM ANGLIAE, &c. Edit. secunda; oper a Johannis Raii, M. A. e Soc.Regia; III. Aero-Chalinos, or, A Register of the Air, &c. Edit. secunda: By Nathan. Henshaw M. D. Fellow of the Royal Society; IV. A Philosophical Essay of Musick. A Preface to March 25. 1677. I Have little to say for a Preface to this my Twelfth Volume (which by the Divine Assistance I now begin:) For that so many of the chief Universities in Christendom have already formed themselves into Philosophical Societies; and have so largely contributed their Aydes to advance the Lord Bacons Design for the Instauration of Arts and Sciences, that it is now become above my abilities to direct or propose those rare and excellent things, which are suggested to many worthy Authors by their own happy Genius. 5 P Many (816) Many useful Inventions are already brought to perfection, and published; and many more are dextrously commenced. In the Preface to my last foregoing Volume, I sollicited for Natural Histories of Countries: And now I see very much done in that kind; and I hear of much more in the hands of many judicious Philosophers, learned Gentlemen, industrious Students, and noble Travellers. And ingenious Travellers are now furnished with extraordinary accommodations,that were not known to former Ages; such as Thermometers, Baroscopes, Hygroscopes, Microscopes, Telescopes, Micrometers, exact Scales and Weights, promptly to weigh Liquors, and, with other circumstances, to examine the intrinsic value of all Coins and Medals or Metals; Pendulum Watches, Instruments and Indexes for Magnetical Variations, and Inclinatory Needles, and other helps to come to ascertain Longitudes; and other Mechanical Contrivances for manifold Uses. And every branch of Mathematicks, pure and mixt, Arithmetick, Geometry, Astronomy, Architecture, all Ingenuous Arts are daily rendred more easie and more pregnant. These the most Intelligent and Industrious, being some of them in full Bodies associated, well setled and devoted for solid Truth in all our best Academies; and others led by their own Genius and Affairs, to undertake inquisitive Journeys by Sea and Land; we cannot suspect a Relapse, nor fail of a perpetual Progress in sound and useful knowledge, to the satisfaction of all the Ingenuous. 