[ 299 ] XVII. On a peculiar class of Acoustical Figures; and on certain Forms assumed by groups of particles upon vibrating elastic Surfaces. By M. FARADAY, F.R.S. M.R.I., Corr. Mlem. Royal Acad. Sciences of Paris, &Sc. Ssc. Read May 12, 1831. 1. THE beautiful series of forms assumed by sand, filings, or other grains, when lying upon vibrating plates, discovered and developed by CHLADNI, are so striking as to be recalled to the minds of those who have seen them by the slightest reference. They indicate the quiescent parts of the plates, and visibly figure out what are called the nodal lines. 2. Afterwards M. CHLADNI observed that shavings from the hairs of the exciting violin bow did not proceed to the nodal lines, but were gathered together on those parts of the plate the most violently agitated, i. e. at the centres of oscillation. Thus when a square plate of glass held horizontally was nipped above and below at the centre, and made to vibrate by the application of a violin bow to the middle of one edge, so as to produce the lowest possible sound, sand sprinkled on the plate assumed the form of a diagonal cross; but the light shavings were gathered together at those parts towards the middle of the four portions where the vibrations were most powerful and the excursions of the plate greatest. 3. Many other substances exhibited the same appearance. Lycopodium, which was used as a light powder by GERSTED, produced the effect very well. These motions of lycopodium are entirely distinct from those of the same substance upon plates or rods in which longitudinal vibrations are excited. 4. In August 1827, M. SAVART read a paper to the Royal Academy of Sciences *, in which he deduced certain important conclusions respecting the subdivision of vibrating sonorous bodies from the forms thus assumed by light powders. The arrangement of the sand into lines in CHLADNI's experiments* Annales de Chimie, xxxvi. p. 187. 300 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. shows a division of the sounding plate into parts, all of which vibrate isochronously, and produce the same tone. This is the principal mode of division. The fine powder which can rest at the places where the sand rests, and also accumulate at other places, traces a more complicated figure than the sand alone, but which is so connected with the first, that, as M. SAVART states, " the first being given, the other may be anticipated with certainty; from which it results that every time a body emits sounds, not only is it the seat of many modes of division which are superposed, but amongst all these modes there are always two which are more distinctly established than all the rest. My object in this memoir is to put this fact beyond a doubt, and to study the laws to which they appear subject." M. SAVART then proceeds to establish a secondary mode of division in circular, rectangular, triangular and other plates; and in rods, rings, and membranes. This secondary mode is pointed out by the figures delineated by the lycopodium or other light powder ; and as far as I can perceive, its existence is assumed, or rather proved, exclusively from, these forms. Hence much of the importance which I attach to the present paper. A secondary mode of division, so subordinate to the principal as to be always superposed by it, might have great influence in reasonings upon other points in the philosophy of vibrating plates; to prove its existence therefore is an importnt matter. But its existence being assumed and supported by such high authority as the name of SAVAnT, to prove its nonexistence, supposing it without foundation, is of equal consequence. 6. The essential appearances, as far as I have observed them, are as follows. Let the plate before mentioned (2), which may be three or four inches square, be nipped and held in a horizontal position by a pair of pincers of the proper form, and terminated, at the part touching the glass, by two pieces of cork; let lycopodium powder be sprinkled over the plate, and a violin bow be drawn downwards against the middle of one edge so as to produce a clear full tore. Immediately the powder on those four parts of the plate towards the four edges will be agitated, whilst that towards the two diagonal cross lines will remain nearly or quite at rest. On repeating the application of the bow several times, a little of the loose powder, especially that in small masses, will collect upon the diagonal lines, and thus, showing one of the figures which CHLADNI disMR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 301 covered, will also show the principal mode of division of the plate. Most of the powder which remains upon the plate will, however, be collected in four parcels; one placed near to each edge of the plate, and evidently towards the place of greatest agitation. Whilst the plate is vibrating (and consequently sounding) strongly, these parcels will each form a rather diffuse cloud, moving rapidly within itself; but as the vibration diminishes, these clouds will first contract considerably in bulk, and then settle down into four groups, eac consisting of one, two, or more hemispherical parcels (53), which are in an extraordinary condition ; for the powder of each parcel continues to rise up at the centre and flow down on every side to the bottom, where it enters the mass to ascend at the centre again, until the plate has nearly ceased to vibrate. If the plate be made to vibrate strongly, these parcels are immediately broken up, being thrown into the air, and form clouds, which settle down as before; but if the plate be made to vibrate in a smaller degree, by a more moderate application of the bow, the little hemispherical parcels are thrown into comnmotion without being sensibly separated from the plate, and often slowly travel towards the quiescent lines. When one or more of them, have thus receded from the place over which the clouds are always formed, and a powerful application of the bow is made, sufficient to raise the clouds, it will be seen that these heaps rapidly diminish, the particles of which they are composed being swept away from them, and passing back in a current over the glass to tile cloud under formation, which ultimately settles as before into the same four groups of heaps. These effects may be repeated any number of times, and it is evident that the four parts into which the plate may be considered as divided by the diagonal lines are repetitions of one effect. 7. The form of the little heaps, and the involved motion they acquire, arc no part of the phenomena under consideration at present. They depend upon the adhesion of the particles to each other and to the plate, combined with the action of the air or surrounding medium, and will be resumed hereafter (53). The point in question is the manner in which fine particles do not merely remain at the centres of oscillation, or places of greatest agitation, but are actually driven towards them, and that with so much the more force as the vibrations are more powerful. 8. That the agitated substance should be in very fine powder, or very light, appears to be the only condition necessary for success; fine scrapings fronm a 302 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. common quill, even when the eighth of an inch in length or more, will show the effect. Chemically pure and finely divided silica rivals lycopodium in the beauty of its arrangement at the vibrating parts of the plate, although the same substance in sand or heavy particles proceeds to the lines of rest. Peroxide of tin, red lead, vermilion, sulphate of baryta, and other heavy powders when highly attenuated, collect also at the vibrating parts. Hence it is evident that the nature of the powder has nothing to do with its collection at the centres of agitation, provided it be dry and fine. 9. The cause of these effects appeared to me, from the first, to exist in the medium within which the vibrating plate and powder were placed, and every experiment which I have made, together with all those in M. SAvARIrs paper, either strongly confirm, or agree with this view. When a plate is made to vibrate (2), currents (24) are established in the air lying upon the surface of the plate, which pass from the quiescent lines towards the centres or lines of vibration, that is, towards those parts of the plates where the excursions are greatest, and then proceeding outwards from the plate to a greater or smaller distance, return towards the quiescent lines. The rapidity of these currents, the distance to which they rise from the plate at the centre of oscillation, or any other part, the blending of the progressing and returning air, their power of carrying light or heavy particles, and with more or less rapidity or force, are dependent upon the intensity or force of the vibrations, the medium in which the vibrating plate is placed, the vicinity of the centre of vibration to the limit or edge of the plate, and other circumstances, which a simple experiment or two will immediately show must exert much influence on the phenomena. 10. So strong and powerful are these currents, that when the vibrations were energetic the plate might be inclined 5?, 6?, or 8? to the horizon and yet the gathering clouds retain their places. As the vibrations diminished in force, the little heaps formed from the cloud idescended the hill; but on strengthening the vibrations they melted away, the particles ascending the inclined plane on those sides proceeding upwards, and passing again to the cloud. This took place when neither sand nor filings could rest on the quiescent or nodal lines. Nothing could remain upon the plate except those particles which were so fine as to be governed by the currents, which (if they exist at all) it is evident would exist in whatever situation the plate was placed. MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 303 1 1. M. SAVART seems to consider that the reason why the powder gathers together at the centres of oscillation is, " that the amplitude of the oscillations being very great, the middle of each of those centres (of vibration) is the only place where the plate remains nearly plane and horizontal, and where, consequently, the powder may reunite, whilst the surface being inclined to the right or left of this point, the parcels of powder cannot stop there." But the inclination thus purposely given to the plate, was very many times that which any part acquires by vibration in a horizontal position, and consequently proves that the horizontality of any part of the plate is not the cause of the powder collecting there, although it may be favourable to its remaining there when collected. 12. Guided by the idea of what ought to happen, supposing the cause now assigned were the true one, the following amongst many other experiments were made. A piece of card about an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide was fixed by a little soft cement on the face of the plate near one edge, the plate held as before at the middle, lycopodium or fine silica strewed upon it, and the bow applied at the middle of another edge; the powder immediatelyadvanced close to the card, and the place of the cloud was much nearer to the edge than before. Fig. 1 represents the arrangement; the diagonal lines being those which sand would have formed, the line at the top a representing the place of the card, and the x to the right the place where the bow was applied. On applying a second piece of card as at 6, the powder seemedFig. 1. a b l cindifferent to it or nearly so, and ultimately collected as in the first figure:c represents the place of the cloud when no card is present. 13. Pieces of card were then fixed on the glass in the three angular forms represented in fig. 2; upon vibrating the plate the fine powder always went into the angle, notwithstanding its difference of position in the three experiments, but perfectly in accordance with the idea of currents intercepted more or less by the card. When two pieces of card were fixed on the plate as in fig. 3. a, the powder proceeded into the angle but not to the edge of the glass, remaining about 8th of an inch from it; but on closing up that opening, as at 6, the powder went quite up into the corner.Fig. 2. IV Fig. 3. a b x CMDCCCXXXI. 2 R 304 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 14. Upon fixing two pieces of card on the plate as at c fig. 3, the powder between them collected in the middle very nearly as if no card had been present; but that on the outside of the cards gathered close up against them, being able to proceed so far in its way to the middle, but no further. 15. In all these experiments the sound was very little lowered, the form of the cross was not changed, and the light powders collected on the other three portions of the plate, exactly as if no card walls had been applied on the fourth; so that no reason appears for supposing that the mode in which the plate vibrated was altered, but the powders seem to have been carried forward by currents which could be opposed or directed at pleasure by the card stops.16. A piece of gold-leaf being laid upon the plate, so that it did not overlap the edge, fig. 4, the current of air towards the centre of vibration was beautifully shown; for, by its force, the air crept in under the gold-leaf on all sides, and raised it up into the form of a blister; that part of the gold-leaf correspondingIFig. 4. 77-~to the centre of the locality of the cloud, when light powder was used, being frequently a sixteenth or twelfth of an inch from the glass. Lycopodium or other fine powder sprinkled round the edge of the gold-leaf, was carried inby the entering air, and accumulated underneath. 17. When silica was placed on the edge of another glass plate, or upon a book, or block of wood, and the edge of the vibrating plate brought as nearly as possible to the edge of the former, fig. 5, part of the silica was always driven on to the vibrating plate, and collected in the usual place; as if in the midst of all the agitation of the air in the neighbourhood of the two edges, there was still a current towards the centre of vibration, even from bodies not themselves vibrating.Fig. 5. I I 4' 4 u ,h,18. When a long glass plate is supported by bridges or strings at the two nodal lines represented in fig. 6, and made to vibrate, the lycopodiumcollects in three divisions; that between the nodal lines does not proceed at once into a line equidistant from the nodal lines and parallel to them, but advances from theFig. 6. ,;Tl.#edges of the plate towards the middle by paths, which are a little curved and oblique to the edges where they occur near the nodal lines, but are almost MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 305 perpendicular to it elsewhere, and the powder gradually forms a line along the middle of the plate; it is only by continuing the experiment for some time that it gathers up into a heap or cloud equidistant from the nodal lines.But upon fixing card walls upon this plate, as in fig. 7, the course of the powder within the cards was directly parallel to them and to the edge, instead of being perpendicular,Fig. 7. 1 ~VO1and also directly towards the centre of oscillation. rro prove that it was not as a weight that the card acted, but as an obstacle to the currents of air formed, it was not moved from its place, but bent flat down outwards, and then the fine powder resumed the courses it took upon the plate when without the cards. Upon raising the cards the first effect was reproduced. 19. The lycopodium sprinkled over the extremities of such a plate proceeds towards places equidistant from the sides and near the ends, as at a fig. 8; buton cementing a piece of paper to the edge, so as to form a wall about onfi quarter or one third of an inch high, b, the powder immediately moved up to it, andFig. 8. a fbretained this new place. In a longer narrow plate, similarly arranged, the powder could be made to pass to either edge, or to the middle, according as paper interceptors to the currents of air were applied. 20. Plates of tin, four or five inches long, and from an inch to two inches wide, fixed firmly at one end in a horizontal position, and vibrated by applying the fingers, show the progress of the air and the light powders well. The vibrations are of comparatively enormous extent, and the appearances are consequently more instructive. 21. If a tuning-fork be vibrated, then held horizontally with the broad surface of one leg uppermost, and a little lycopodium be sprinkled upon it, the collection of the powder in a cloud along the middle, and the formation of the involving heaps also in a line along the middle of the vibrating steel bar,, may be beautifully observed. But if a piece of paper be attached by wax to the side of the limb, so as to form a fence projecting above it, as in the former experiments (19), then the powder will take up its place close to the paper; and if pieces of paper be attached on different parts of the same leg, the powder will go to the different sides, in the different parts, at the same time. 22. The effects under consideration are exceedingly well shown and illus2 R 2 :306 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. trated by membranes. A piece of parchment was stretched and tightly tied, whilst moist, over the aperture of a funnel five or six inches in diameter; a small hole was made in the middle, and a horse-hair passed through it, but with a knot at the extremity that it might thereby be retained. Upon fixing the funnel in an upright position, and after applying a little powdered resin to the thumbs and fore-fingers, drawing them upward over the horse-hair, the membrane was thrown into vibration with more or less force at pleasure. By supporting the funnel on a ring, passing the horse-hair in the opposite direction through the hole in the membrane, and drawing the fingers over it downwards, the direction in which the force was applied could be varied according to circumstaxnces. 23. When lycvo odiurn or light powders were sprinkled upon this surface, the rapidity with which ttey ran to the centre, the globdl formed there, the 1-sivolving heaps and many other circutustances, could be observed very advrantageously. 24. The currents which I have considered as existing upon the surface of the plate, membranes, &c. from the quiescent parts towards the centres or lines of vibration (9), arise necessarily from the mechanical action of that surface upon the air. As any particular part of the surface moves upwards in the course of its vibration, it propels the air and communicates a certain degree of force to it, perpendicular or nearly so to the vibrating surface; as it returns, in the course of its vibration, it recedes from the air so projected, and the latter consequently tends to return into the partial vacuum thus formed. But as of two neighbouring portions of air, that over the part of the plate nearest to the centre of oscillation has had more projectile force communicated to it than the other, because the part of the plate urging it was moving with greater velocity, and through a greater space, so it is in a more unfavourable condition for its immediate return, and the other, i. e. the portion next to it towards the quiescent line, presses into its place. This effect is still further favoured, because the portion of air thus displaced is urged from similar causes at the same moment into the place left vacant by the air still nearer the centre of oscillation; so that each time the plate recedes from the air, an advance of the air immediately above it is Tnade from the quiescent towards the vibrating parts of the plates. MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 307 25. It will be evident that this current is highly favourable for the transference of light powders towards the centre of vibration. Whilst the air is forced forward, the advance of the plate against the particles holds them tight; but when the plate recedes, and the current exists, the particles are at that moment left unsupported except by the air and are free to move with it. 26. The air which is thus thrown forward at and towards the centre of oscillation, must tend by the forces concerned to return towards the quiescent lines, forming a current in the opposite direction to the first, and blending more or less with it. I endeavoured, in various ways, to make the extent of this system of currents visible. In the experiment already referred to, where goldleaf was placed over the centre of oscillation (16), the upward current at the most powerful part was able to raise the leaf about one tenth of an inch from the plate. The higher the sounds with the same plate or membrane, i. e. the greater the number of vibrations, the less extensive must be the series of currents; the slower the vibrations, or the more extensive the excursion of the parts from increased force applied, the greater the extent of disturbance. With glass plates (2. 12) the cloud is higher and larger as the vibrations are stronger, but still not so extensive as they are upon the stretched membrane (22), where the cloud may frequently be seen rising up in the middle and flowing over towards the sides. 27. When the membrane stretched upon the funnel (22) was made to vibrate by the horse-hair proceeding downwards, and a large glass tube, as a cylindrical lamp-glass, was brought near to the centre of vibration, no evidence of a current entirelythrough the lamp-glass could be perceived; but still the most striking proofs were obtained of the existence of carrying currents by the effects upon the light powder, for it flew more rapidly under the edge, and tended to collect towards the axis of the tube; it could even be diverted somewhat from its course towards the centre of oscillation. A piece of upright paper, held with its edge equally near, did not produce the same effect; but immediately that it was rolled into a tube, it did. When the glass chimney was suspended very carefully, and at but a small distance from the membrane, the powder often collected at the edge, and-revolved there; a complicated action between the currents and the space under the thickness of the glass taking place, but still tending to show the influence of the air in arranging and disposing the powders. 308 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 28. A sheet of drawing-paper was stretched tightly over a frame so as to form a tense elastic surface nearly three feet by two feet in extent. Upon placing this in a horizontal position, throwing a spoonful of lycopodiumn upon it, and striking it smartly below with the fingers, the phenomena of collection at the centre of vibration, and of moving heaps, could be obtained upon a magnificent scale., When the lycopodium was uniformly spread over the surface, and any part of the paper slightly tapped by the hand, the lycopodium at any place chosen could be drawn together merely by holding the lam~p-glass over it. It will be unnecessary to enter into the detail of the various actions comnbining to produce these effects; it is sufficiently evident, from the mode in which they may be varied, that they depend upon currents of air. 29. A very interesting set of effects occurred when the stretched parchment upon the funnel (22) was vibrated under plates; the horse-hair was directed downwards, and the membrane, after being sprinkled over with light powder, was covered by a plate of glass resting upon the edge of the funnel; upon throwing the membrane into a vibratory state, the powder collected with miuch greater rapidity than without the plate; and instead of forming the semi-gobular moving heaps, it formed linear arrangements, all concentric to the centre of vibration. When the vibrations were strong, these assumed a revolving motion, rolling towards the centre at the part in contact with the membrane, and from it at the part nearest the glass; thus illustrating in the clearest manner the double currents caged up between the glass and the membrane. The effect was well shown by carbonate of magnesia. 30. Sometimes when the plate was held down very close and tight, and the vibrations were few and large, the powder was all blown out at the edge; for then the whole arrangement acted as a bellows; and as the entering air travelled with much less velocity than the expelled air, and as the forces of the currents are as the squares of the velocity, the issuing air carried the powder more forcibly than the air which passed in, and finally threw it out. 31. A thin plate of mica laid loosely upon the vibrating membrane showed the rotating concentric lines exceedingly well. 32. From these experiments on plates and surfaces vibrating in air, it appears that the forms assumed by the determination of light powders towards the places of most intense vibration, depend, not upon any secondary mode of MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 309 division, or upon any immediate and peculiar action of the plate, but upon the currents of air necessarily formed over its surface, in consequence of the extramechanical action of one part beyond another. In this point of view the nature of the inedium in which those currents were formed ought to have great influence over the phenomena; for the only reason why silica as sand should pass towards the quiescent lines, whilst the sarne silica as fine powder went from them, is, that in its first form the particles are thrown up so high by the vibrations as to be above the currents, and that if they were not thus thrown out of their reach they would be too heavy to be governed by them; whilst in the second form they are not thrown out of the lower current, except near the principal place of oscillation. and are so light as to be carried by it in whatever direction it may proceed. 33. In the exhausted receiver of the air-pump therefore the phenomena ought not to occur as in air; for as the force of the currents would be there excessively weakened, the light powders ought to assume the part of heavier grains in the air. Again, in denser media than air, as in water for instance, there was every reason to expect that the heavier powder, as sand and filings, would perform the part of light powders in air, and be carried from the quiescent to the vibrating parts. 34. The experiments in the air-pump receiver were made in two ways. A round plate of glass was supported on four narrow cork leg-s upon a table, and then a thin glass rod with a rounded end held perpendicularly upon the middle of the glass. By passing the moistened fingers longitudinally along this rod the plate was thrown into a vibratory state; the cork legs were then adjusted in. the circular nodal line occurring with this mode of vibration; and when their places were thus found they were permanently fixed. The plate was then transferred into the receiver of an air-pump, and the glass rod by which it was to be thrown into vibration passed through collars in the upper part of the receiver, the entrance of air there being prevented by abundance of pomatumn. When fine silica was sprinkled upon the plate, and the plate vibrated by the wet fingers applied to the rod, the receiver rnot being exhausted, the fine powder travelled from the nodal line, part collecting at the centre, and other part in a circle, between the nodal line and the edge. Both these situations were places of vibration, and exhibited themselves as such by the agitation of the powder. Upon again sprinkling fine silica uniformly over the plate, ex310 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. hausting the receiver to twenty-eight inches, and vibrating the plate, the silica went from the middle towards the nodal line or place of rest, performing exactly the part of sand in air. It did not move at the edges of the plate, and as the apparatus was inconvenient and broke during the experiment, the following arrangement was adopted in its place. 35. The mouth of a funnel was covered (22) with a well-stretched piece of fine parchment, and then fixed on a stand with the membrane horizontal; the horse-hair was passed loosely through a hole in a cork, fixed in a metallic tube on the top of the air-pump receiver; the tube above the cork was filled to the depth of half an inch with pomatum, and another perforated cork put over that; a cup was formed on the top of the second cork, which was filled with water. In this way the horse-hair passed first through pomatum and then water, and by giving a little pressure and rotatory motion to the upper cork during the time that the -horse-hair was used to throw the membrane into vibration, it was easy to keep the pomatum below perfectly in contact with the hair, and even to make it exude upwards into the water above. Thus no possibility of the entrance of air by and along the horse-hair could exist, and the tightness of all the other and fixed parts of the apparatus was ascertained by the ordinary mode of examination. A little paper shelf was placed in the receiver under the cork to catch any portion of pomnatum that might be forced through by the pressure, and prevent its falling on to the membrane. 36. This arrangement succeeded: when the receiver was full of air, the lycopodium gathered at the centre of the membrane with great facility and readiness, exhibiting the cloud, the currents, and the involving heaps. Upon exhausting the receiver until the barometrical gauge was at twenty-eight inches, the lycopodium, instead of collecting at the centre, passed across the membrane towards one side which was a little lower than the other. It passed by the middle just as it did over any other part; and when the force of the vibrations was much increased, although the powder was more agitated at the middle than elsewhere, it did not collect there, but went towards the edges or quiescent parts. Upon allowing air to enter until the barometer stood at twenty-six inches, and repeating the experiments, the effect was nearly the same. When the vibrations were very strong, there were faint appearances of a cloud, consisting of the very finest particles, collecting at the centre of vibration; MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 311 but no sensible accumulation of the powder took place. At twenty-four inches of the barometer the accumulation at the centre began to appear, and there was a sensible, though very slight effect visible of the return of the powder from the edges. At twenty-two inches these effects were stronger; and when the barometer was at twenty inches, the currents of air within the receiver had force enough to cause the collection of the principal part of the lycopodium at the centre of vibration. Upon again, however, restoring the exhaustion to twenty-eight inches, all the effects were reproduced as at first, and the lycopodium again proceeded to the lower or the quiescent parts of the membrane. These alternate effects were obtained several times in succession before the apparatus was dismounted. 37. In this form of experiment there were striking proofs of the existence of a current upwards from the middle of the membrane when vibrating in air, (24), and the extent of the system of currents (26) was partly indicated. The powder purposely collected at the middle by vibrations, when the receiver was full of air, was observed as to the height to which it was forced upwards by the vibrations; and then the receiver being exhausted, the height to which the powder was thrown by similar vibrations was again observed. In the latter cases it was nothing like so great as in the former, the height not being twothirds, and barely one-half, the first height. Had the powder been thrown up by mere propulsion, it should have risen far higher in vacuo than in air: but the reverse took place; and the cause appears to be, that in air the current had force enough to carry the fine particles up to a height far beyond what the mere blow which they received from the vibrating membrane could effect. 38. For the experiments in a denser medium than air, water was chosen. A circular plate of glass was supported upon four feet in a horizontal position, surrounded by two or three inches of water, and thrown into vibration by applying a glass rod perpendicular to the middle, as in the first experiment in vacuo (34); the feet were shifted until the arrangement gave a clear sound, and the moistened brass filings sprinkled upon the plate formed regular lines or figures. These lines were not however lines of rest, as they would have been in the air, but were the places of greatest vibration; as was abundantly evident from their being distant from that nodal line determined and indicated by the contact of the feet, and also from the violent agitation of the filings. MDCCCXXXI. 2s 312 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. In fact, the filings proceeded from the quiescent to the moving parts, and there were gathered together; not only forming the cloud of particles over the places of intense vibration, but also settling down, when the vibrations were weaker, into the same involving groups, and in every respect imitating the action of light powders in air. Sand was affected exactly in the same manner; and even grains of platina could be in this way collected by the currents formed in so dense a medium as water. 39. The experiments were then made under water with the membranes stretched over funnels (22) and thrown into vibration by horse-hairs drawn between the fingers. The space beneath the membrane could be retained, filled with air, whilst the upper surface was covered two or three inches deep with water; or the space below could also be filled with water, or the force applied to the membrane by the horse-hair could be upwards or downwards at pleasure. In all these experiments the sand or filings could be made to pass with the utmost facility to the most powerfully vibrating part, that being either at the centre only, or in addition, in circular lines, according to the mode in which the membrane vibrated. The edge of the funnel was always a line of rest; but circular nodal lines were also formed, which were indicated, not by the accumulation of filings upon them, but by the tranquil state of those filings which happened to be there, and also by being between those parts where the filings, by their accumulation and violent agitation, indicated the parts in the most powerful vibratory state. 40. Even when by the relaxation of the parchment from moisture, and the force upwards applied by the horse-hair, the central part of the membrane was raised the eighth of an inch or more above the edges, the circle not being four inches in diameter, still the filings would collect there. 41. When in place of parchment common linen was used, as becoming tighter rather than looser when wetted, the same effects were obtained. 42. Both the reasoning adopted and the effects described were such as to lead to the expectation that if the plate vibrating in air was covered with a layer of liquid instead of sand or lycopodium, that liquid ought to be deter. mined from the quiescent to the vibrating parts and be accumulated there. A square plate was therefore covered with water, and vibrated as in the former experiments (2. 6.) ; but all endeavours to ascertain whether accumulation MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES. 313 occurred at the centres of oscillation, either by direct observation, or the reflection from its surface of right-lined figures, or by looking through the parts, as through a lens, at small print and other objects, failed. 43. As however when the plate was strongly vibrated, the well-known and peculiar crispations which form on water at the centres of vibration, occurred and prevented any possible decision as to accumulation, it was only when these were absent and the vibration weak, and the accumulation therefore small, that any satisfactory result could be expected; but as even then no appearance was perceived, it was concluded that the force of gravity combined with the mobility of the fluid was sufficient to restore the uniform condition of the layer of water after the bow was withdrawn, and before the eye had time to observe the convexity expected. 44. To remove in part the effect of gravity, or rather to make it coincide with, instead of oppose the convexity, the under surface of the plate was moist-ened instead of the upper, and by inclining the plate a little, the water made to hang in drops at a or b or c, fig. 9, at pleasure. On applying the bow at X, and causing the plate to vibrate, the drops instantly disappeared, the water being gathered up and expanded laterally over the parts of the plate from which it hadFig. 9. elX~ L5iJflowed. On stopping the vibration, it again accumulated in hanging drops, which instantly disappeared as before on causing the plate to vibrate, the force of gravity being entirely overpowered by the superior forces excited by the vibrating plate. Still, no visible evidence of convexity at the centres of vibration were obtained, and the water appeared rather to be urged from the vibrating parts than to them. 45. The tenacity of oil led to the expectation that better results would beobtained with it than with water. A round plate, held horizontally by the middle (6. 42), was covered with oil over the upper surface, so as to be flooded, except at X, fig. 10, and the bow applied at X as before, to produce strong vibration. No crispation occurred in the oil, but it immediately accumulated at a, b, and c,Fig. 10. xforming fluid lenses there, rendered evident by their magnifying power when print was looked at through them. The accumulations were also visible on putting a sheet of white paper beneath, in consequence of the colour of the oil 2 s 2 314 MR. FARADAY ON A PECULIAR CLASS OF ACOUSTICAL FIGURES' being deeper at the accumulations than elsewhere; and they were also rendered beautifully evident by 'making the experiment in sunshine, or by putting a candle beneath the plate, and placing a screen on the opposite side to receive the images formed at the focal distance. 46. When the vibration of the plate ceased, the oil gradually flowed back until of uniform depth. On renewing the vibration, the accumulations were re-formed, the phenomena of accumulation occurring with as much certainty and beauty as if lycopodium powder had been used. 47. To remove every doubt of the fluid passing from the quiescent to the agitated parts, centres of vibration were used, nearly surrounded by nodal lines.A square plate, fig. 1 1, being held at c, and the bow applied at X, gave with sand, nodal lines, resembling those in the figure. Then clearing off the sand, putting oil in its place, and producing the same mode of vibration as before, the oil accumulated at a and b, forming two heaps or lenses as in the former experiment (45).Fig. 1 1. \ A~ulb s148. The experiment made with water on the under surface (44) was now repeated with oil, the round plate being used (45). The hanging drop of oil rose up as the water did before, but the lateral diffusion was soon limited; for lenses were formed at the centres of vibration just as when the oil was upon the upper surface, and, as far as could be ascertained by general examination, of the same form and power. On stopping the vibration, the oil gathered again into hanging drops; and on renewing it, it was again disposed in the lens-like accumulations. 49. With white of egg the same observable accumulation at the centres of vibration could be produced. 50. Hence it is evident that when a surface vibrating normally, is covered with a layer of liquid, that liquid is determined from the quiescent to the vibrating parts, producing accumulation at the latter places; and that this accumulation is limited, so that if purposely rendered too great by gravity or other means, it will quickly be diminished by the vibrations until the depth of fluid at any one part has a certain and constant relation to the velocity there and to the depth elsewhere. 51. From the accumulated evidence which these experiments afford, I think there can remain no doubt of the cause of the collection of fine powders at the MR. FARADAY ON THE GROUPING OF PARTICLES, &c. 315 centres or lines of vibration of plates, membranes, &c. under common circumstances; and that no secondary mode of division need be assumed to account for them. I have been the more desirous of accumulating experimental evidence, because I have thought on the one hand that the authority of SAVART should not be doubted on slight grounds, and on the other, that if by accident it be placed in the wrong scale, the weight of evidence against it should be such as fully to establish the truth and prevent a repetition of the error by others. 52. It must be evident that the phenomena of collection at the centres or lines of greatest vibration are exhibited in their purest form at those places which are surrounded by nodal lines; and that where the centre or place of vibration is at or near to an edge, the effects must be very much modified by the manner in which the air is there agitated. It is this influence, which, in the square plates (6. 12) and other arrangements, prevents the clouds being at the very edge of the glass. They may be well illustrated by vibrating tin plates under water over a white bottom, and sprinkling dark-coloured sand or filings upon various parts of the plates. On the peculiar Arrangement and Motions of the heaps formed by particles lying on vibrating surfaces. 53. The peculiar manner in which the fine powder upon a vibrating surface is accumulated into little heaps, either hemispherical or merely rounded, and larger or smaller in size, has already been described (6. 28), as well also as the singular motion which they possess, as long as the plate continues in vibration. These heaps form on any part of the surface which is in a vibratory state, and not merely under the clouds produced at the centres of vibration, although the particles of the clouds always settle into similar heaps. They have a tendency, as heaps, to proceed to the nodal or quiescent lines, but are often swept away in powder by the currents already described (6). When on a place of rest, they do not acquire the involving motion. When two or more are near together or touch, they will frequently coalesce and form but one heap, which quickly acquires a rounded outline. When in their most perfect and final form, they are always round. 54. The moving heaps formed by lycopodium on large stretched drawing316 MR. FARADAY ON THE MOVING GROUPS OF PARTICLES paper (28), are on so large a scale as to be very proper for critical examination. The phenomena can be exhibited also even by dry sand on such a membrane, the sand being in large quantity and the vibrations slow. When the surface is thickly covered by sand from a sieve, and the paper tapped with the finger, the manner in which the sand draws up, into moving heaps is very beautiful. 55. When a single heap is examined, which is conveniently done by holding a vibrating tuning-fork in a horizontal position, and dropping some lycopodium upon it, it will be seen that the particles of the heap rise up at the centre, overflow, fall down upon all sides, and disappear at the bottom, apparently proceeding inwards; and this evolving and involving motion continues until the vibrations have become very weak. 56. That the medium in which the experiment is made has an important influence, is shown by the circumstance of heavy particles, such as filings, exhibiting all these peculiarities when they are placed upon surfaces vibrating in water (39); the heaps being even higher at the centre than a heap of equal diameter formed of light powder in the air. In water, too, they are formed indifferently upon any part of the plate or membrane which is in a vibratory state. They do not tend to the quiescent lines; but that is merely from the great force of the currents formed in water as already described (38), and the power with which they urge obstacles to the place of greatest vibration. 57. If a glass plate be supported and vibrated (6), its surface having been covered with sand enough to hide the plate, and water enough to moisten and flow over the sand, the sand will draw together in heaps, and these will exhibit the peculiar and characteristic motion of the particles in a very striking manner. 58. The aggregation and motion of these heaps, either in air or other fluids, is a very simple consequence of the mechanical impulse communicated to them by the joint action of the vibrating surface and the surrounding medium. Thus in air, when, in the course of a vibration, the part of a plate under a heap rises, it communicates a propelling force upwards to that heap, mingled as it is with air, greater than that communicated to the surrounding atmosphere, because of the superior specific gravity of the former; upon receding from the heap, therefore, in performing the other half of its vibration, it forms a partial FORMED ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 317 vacuum, into which the air, round -the heap, enters with more readiness than the heap itself; and as it enters, carries in the powder at the bottom edge of the heap with it. This action is repeated at every vibration, and as they occur in such rapid succession that the eye cannot distinguish them, the centre part of the heap is continually progressing upwards; and as the powder thus accumulates above, whilst the base is continually lessened by what is swept in underneath, the particles necessarily fall over and roll down on every side. 59. Although this statement is made upon the relation of the heap, as a mass, to the air surrounding it, yet it will be seen at once that the same relation exists between any two parts of the heap at different distances from the centre; for the one nearest the centre will be propelled upward with the greatest force, and the other will be in the most favourable state for occupying the partial vacuum left by the receding plate. 60. This view of the effect will immediately account for all the appearances; the circular form, the fusion together of two or more heaps, their involving motion, and their existence upon any vibrating part of the plate. The manner in which the neighbouring particles would be absorbed by the heaps is also evident; and as to their first formation, the slightest irregularities in the powder or surface would determine a commencement, which would then instantly favour the increase. 61. It is quite true, that if the powder were coherent, that force alone would tend to produce the same effect, but only in a very feeble degree. This is sufficiently shown by the experiments made in the exhausted receiver (36). When the barometer of the air-pump was at twenty-eight inches, that in the air being about 29.2 inches, the heaps, or rather parcels, formed very beautifully over the whole surface of the membrane; but they were very flat and extensive compared with the heaps in air, and the involving motion was very wealk. As the air was admitted, the vibration being continued, the heaps rose in height, contracted in diameter, and moved more rapidly. Again, in the experiments with filings and sand in water, no cohesive action could assist in producing the effect; it must have been entirely due to the manner in which the particles were mechanically urged in a medium of less density than themselves. 62. The conversion of these round heaps into linear concentric involving parcels, in the experiment already described (29. 31), when the membrane was 318 IMR. FARADAY ON THE GROUPING OF PARTICLES, &C. covered by a plate of glass, is a necessary consequence of the arrangements there made, and tends to show how influential the action of the air or other including medium is in all the phenomena considered in this paper. No incompatible principles are assumed in the explication given of the arrangement of the forces producing the two classes of effects in question, and though by variation of the force of vibration and other circumstances, the one effect can be made, within certain limits, to pass into the other, nolanomaly or contradiction is thus involved, nor any result produced, which, as it appears to me, cannot be immediately accounted for by reference to the principles laid down. Royal Institution, March 21, 1831. [ 319 ] APPENDIX. On the Forms and States assumed by Fluids in contact with vibrating elastic surfaces. 63. When the upper surface of a plate vibrating so as to produce sound (2. 6) is covered with a layer of water, the water usually presents a beautifully crispated appearance in the neighbourhood of the centres of vibration. This appearance has been observed by OERSTED*, WHEATSTONE +, WEBER+ and probably others. It, like the former phenomena which I have endeavoured to explain, has led to false theory, and being either not understood or misunderstood, has proved an obstacle to the progress of acoustical philosophy. 64. On completing the preceding investigation, I was led to believe that the principles assumed would, in conjunction with the cohesion of fluids, account for these phenomena. Experimental investigation fully confirmed this expectation, but the results were obtained at too late a period to be presented to the Royal Society before the close of the Session; and it is only because the philosophy and the subject itself is a part of that received into the Philosophical Transactions in the preceding paper, that I am allowed, by the President and Council, the privilege of attaching the present paper in the form of an Appendix. 65. The general phenomenon now to be considered is easily produced upon a square plate nipped in the middle, either by the fingers or the pincers (2. 6), held horizontally, covered with sufficient water on the upper surface to flow freely from side to side when inclined, and made to vibrate strongly by a bow ap-plied to one edge, X, fig. 12, in the usual way. Crispations appear on the surface of the water, first at the centres of vibration, and extend more or less towards the nodal lines, as the vibrations are stronger or weaker. The crispation presents the appearance of small cono;dal elevations of equal lateral extent, usually arrangedFig. 12. >\ \ 7 :~, N* LIEBER'S Hist. of Natural Phenomena for 1813. t Annals of Philosophy, N. S. vi. p. 82. ; Wellenlehre, p. 414.MDCCCXXXI. 2 T 320 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES rectangularly with extreme regularity; permanent* (in appearance), so long as a certain degree of vibration is sustained; increasing and diminishing in height, with increased or diminished vibration; but not affected in their lateral extent by such variations, though the whole crispated surface is enlarged or diminished at those times. If the plate be vibrated, so as to prodace a different note, the crispations still appear at the centre of vibration, but are smaller for a high note, larger for a low one. The same note produced on different sized plates, by different modes of vibration, appears to produce crispations of the same dimension, other circumstances being the same. 66. These appearances are beautifully seen when ink diluted with its bulk of water is used on the plate. 67. It was necessary, for examination, both to prolong and enlarge the effect, and the following were found advantageous modes of producing it. Plates of crown-glass, from eighteen to twenty-two inches long, and three or four inches wide, were supported each by two triangular pieces of wood acting as bridges (18), and made to vibrate by a small glass rod or tube resting perpendicularly at the middle, over which the moist fingers were passed. By sprinkling dry sand on the plates, and shifting the bridges, the nodal lines were found (usually about one fifth of the whole length from each end), and their places marked by a file or diamond. Then clearing away the sand, putting water or ink upon the plate, and applying the rod or fingers, it was easy to produce the crispations and sustain them undisturbed, and with equal intensity for any lengthof time. 68. By making a broad mark, or raising a little ledge of bee's wax, or a mixture of bee's wax and turpentine, it was easy to confine the pool of water to the middle'LJg. 13. a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~part of the plate, fig. 13, where, of course, the crispations were most powerfully produced. Such a barrier is often useful to separate the wet and dry parts of the glass, especially when a violin bow is used as the exciter. 69. In other experiments, deal laths, two, three, or four feet long, one inch and a half wide, and three eighths or more of an inch in thickness, were used instead of the glass plates. These could be made to vibrate by the fingers and wet rod (67), and by either shifting the bridges or changing the lath an almost* WEBER'S Wellenlehre, p. 414. OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 321 unlimited change of isochronous vibrations, from that producing a high note to those in which not more than five or six occurred in a second, could be obtained. The crispations were formed upon a glass plate attached to the middle of the lath, by two or three little pellets of soft cement*. 70. Obtained in this way the appearances were very beautiful, and the facilities very great. A glass plate, from four to eight inches square, could be covered uniformly with crispations of the utmost regularity; for, by attaching the plate with a little method, and at points equidistant from the centre of the bar, it was easy to make every part travel with the same velocity, and in that respect differ from and surpass the bar which sustained it. The conoidal heaps constituting the crispation could be so enlarged by slowness of vibration, that three or four occupied a linear inch. The glass plate could be removed, and another of different form or substance, and with other fluids, as mercury, &c., substituted in an instant. 71. In using laths, it is necessary to confine the parts bearing upon the bridges, either by slight pressure of the fingers, or by loops of string, or by weights. The exciting glass rod need not necessarily rest upon the middle of the bar or plate, but may be applied with equal effect at some distance from it. Long laths may be made to subdivide in their mode of vibration, according as the rod is applied to different places, and the pressure given by the exciting moist fingers is varied; with each change of this kind an immediate change of the crispation is observed. 72. This form of apparatus was enlarged until a board eighteen feet long was used, the layer of water being now three fourths of an inch in depth and twenty-eight inches by twenty inches in extent. The sides of the cistern were very much inclined, so that the water should gradually diminish in depth, and thus reflected waves be prevented. The vibrations were so slow as to be produced by the direct application of the hand, and the heaps were each from an inch to two inches in extent. Though of this magnitude, they were identical in their nature with those forming crispations on so small a scale as to appear merely like a dullness on the surface of the water. 73. In these experiments the proportion of water requires a general adjustment, the crispations being produced more readily and beautifully when there * Equal partsi of yellow wax and turpentine. 2T2 322 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES is a certain quantity than when there is less. For small crispations, the water should flow upon the surface freely. Large crispations require more water than small ones. Too much water sometimes interferes with the beauty of the appearance, but the crispation is not incompatible with much fluid, for the depth may amount to eight, ten, or twelve inches (11 1), and is probably unlimited. 74. These crispations are equally produced upon the under with the upper surface of vibrating plates. When the lower surface is moistened, and the bow applied (65), the drops which hang down by the force of gravity are rippled; but being immediately gathered up as described in the former paper (44), a certain definite layer is produced, which is beautifully rippled or crispated at the centres of vibration. 75. Most fluids, if not all, may be, used to produce these crispations, but some with particular advantages; alcohol, oil of turpentine, white of egg*, ink, and milk produce them. White of egg, notwithstanding its viscosity, shows them readily and beautifully. Ink has great advantages, because, from its colour and opacity, the surface form is seen undisturbed by any reflection from the glass beneath; its appearance in sunshine is exceedingly beautiful. When diluted ink is used for large crispations, upon tin plate or over white paper, or mercury, the different degrees of colour or translucency corresponding to different depths of the fluid, give important information relative to the true nature of the phenomena (78. 85. 97). Milk is, for its opacity, of similar advantage, especially when a light is placed beneath, and being more viscid than water is better for large arrangements (72. 98), because it produces less splashing. 76. Oil does not show small crispations readily (120), and was supposed to be incapable of forming them, but when warmed (by which its liquidity is increased) it produces them freely. Cold oil will also produce large crispations, and for very large ones would probably be better than water, because of its cohesion. The difference between oil and white of egg is remarkable; for the latter, from common observation, would appear to be a thicker fluid than oil but the qualities of cohesion differ in the two, the apparent thickness of white of egg depending upon an elastic power (probably due to an approach ton * \VHEATSTONE. OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 323 structure), which tends to restore its particles to their first position, and coexisting with great freedom to move through small spaces, whilst that of oil is due to a real difficulty in removing the particles one by another. It is possible that the power of assuming, more or less readily, the crispated state may be a useful and even important indication of the internal constitution of different fluids. 77. With mercury the crispations are formed with great facility, and of extreme beauty, when a piece of amalgamated tin or copper plate being fixed on a lath (69), is flooded with the fluid metal, and then vibrated. A film quickly covers the metal, and then the appearances are not so regular as at first; but on removing the film by -a piece of paper, their regularity and beauty are restored. It is more convenient to cover the mercury with a little very dilute acetic or nitric acid; for then the crispations may be produced and maintained for any length of time with a surface of perfect brilliancy. 78. When a layer of ink was put over the mercury, the acid of the ink removed all film, and the summits of the metallic heaps, by diminishing the thickness of the ink over them, became more or less visible, producing the appearance of pearls of equal size beautifully arranged in a black medium. When mercury covered with a film of dilute acid was vibrated in the sunshine, and the light reflected from its surface received on a screen, it formed a very beautiful and regular image; but the screen required to be placed very near to the metal, because of the short focal lengths of the depressions on the mercurial surface. 79. It is sometimes difficult to arrive by inspection at a satisfactory conclusion of the forms and arrangements thus presented, because of multiplied reflection and the particular condition of the whole, which will be described hereafter (95). When observed, well formed with vibrations so slow as to produce three or four elevations in a linear inch (70), they are seen to be conoidal heaps rounded above, and apparently passing into each other below by a curvature in the opposite direction. -When arranged regularly, each is surrounded by eight others, so that, a single light being used, nine images may be sent from each elevation to the eye. These are still further complicated, when transparent fluids are used, by reflections from the glass beneath. Tile use of ink 324 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES (75) removes a good deal of the difficulty experienced, and the production of slow, regular, sustained vibrations, more (67. 69). 80. These elevations I will endeavour to distinguish henceforth by the term heaps. 81. The crispation on the long plate of glass described (67) always ultimately assumed a rectangular arrangement, i. e. the heaps were equidistant, and in rows parallel or at right angles to each other. The rows, usually form angles of 450 to the sides of the plate at the commencement; but if the vibration be continued, the whole system usually wheels round through 45? until them rows coincide with the edges of the plate. 82. The lateral dimension of the heaps remained constant notwithstanding considerable variations in the force of vibration. But it was soon found that variation in the depth of water affected their number; that with less water the heaps were smaller, and with more water larger, though the sound and therefore the number of vibrations in a given period remained the same. The number of heaps could be reduced to eight or increased to eleven and a half in the three inches by a change in no other condition than the depth of fluid. 83. With the above plate (67. 81) the appearances were usually in the following order, the pool of water being quadrangular or nearly so, and the exciting rod resting in the middle of it. Ring-like linear heaps concentric to the exciting rod first form to the number of six or seven; these may be retained by a moderated state of vibration, and produce intervals which measured across the diameter of the rings are to the number of ten in three inches, with a certain constant depth of water. By increasing the force of vibration the altitude of these elevations increases, but not their lateral dimension, and then linear heaps form across these circles and the plate, and parallel to the bridges, having an evident relation to the manner in which the whole plate vibrates. These, which like all other of these phenomena are strongest at the part most strongly vibrating,, soon break up the circles, and are themselves broken up, producing independent heaps, which at first are irregular and changeable, but soon become uniform and produce the quadrangular order; first at angles of 450 to the edges of the plate, but gradually moving round until parallel to them. So the arrangement continues, unless the force be so violent as to break OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 325 it up altogether: if the vibratory force be gradually diminished, then the heaps as gradually fall, but without returning through the order in which they were produced. The following lines may serve to indicate the course of the phenomena. Fig. 14. When perfectly formed, the heaps are also to the number of ten in three inches with the same depth of water as that which produced the rings. The intervals between the rings and the heaps are the same, other influential circumstances remaining unaltered. 84. Then another form of heaps occasionally occurred, but always passing ultimately into those described. These heaps were grouped in an arrangement still very nearly rectangular, and at angles of 450 to the sides of the plate, but were contracted in one direction, and elongated in the other; these directionsbeing parallel to the sides and ends of the plate. If the marks in fig. 15 be supposed to represent the tops of the heaps, an idea of the whole will be obtained. Three inches along these heaps included eight, but across them it included fifteen nearly. These numbers are therefore the relation of length to breadth. But along the lines of the quadrilateral arrangement threeFig. 15. v. --linches included eleven heaps, which, notwithstanding the difference in form, is the same number that was produced by the same plate, with the same depths of water, when the heaps were round; therefore an equal number of heaps existed in the same area in both cases; and the departure from perfect rectangular arrangement, and also the ratio of 1 : 2, is probably due to some slight influence of the sides of the plate. 85. When mercury covered with a film of very dilute nitric acid is vibrated (77), the rectangular arrangement is constantly obtained. When vibrated under dilute ink (78), it is still more beautifully seen and distinguished. The tin plate sustaining the mercury was square, and when the whole surface was covered with crispations, the lines of the rectangular arrangement were always at angles of 450 to its edges. 326 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES 86. When sand is sprinkled uniformly over a plate on which large water crispations are produced, i. e. four, five or six in the inch, it gives some very important indications. It immediately becomes arranged under the water, andwith a little method may be made to yield very regular forms. It is always removed from under the heaps, passing to the parts between them, and frequently producing therefore the accompanying form, fig. 16, of great regularity. As the sand figure remains when the vibration has ceased, it allows of the determi-Fig. 16 I. t a YN K/nation of position, the measurement of intervals, &c. very conveniently. 87. Very often the lines of sand are not continuous, but separated with extreme regularity into portions as represented fig. 17. The portions of these lines were sometimes, with little sand on the plate, very small, fig. 18; and when more sand was present they were thickened occasionally, fig. 19; then assuming the appearance of heaps arranged in straight lines at angles of 450 to the lines regulating the position of the water-heaps which formed them, and just double in number to the latter. At other times the sand instead of being deficient at the intersecting angle would accumulate there only, fig. 20; and at other times would accumulate there principally, but still show the original form by a few connecting particles, fig. 21. Fig. 17. Fig. 18. Fig. 19. Fig. 20. Fig. 21. s /\JX e so armW es go of 4.I * * 3@ /~~~~~~~~~~ J*. * * i ss . 5 a.88. When the heaps were of the form described (84), the sand was still washed from under them; it did not however assume lines parallel to the rectangular arrangement of the heaps, but was arranged as in fig. 22.Fig. 22. i-I -. L ,._.I_ T r T --1 'r-89. When only the circular linear heaps (83) were produced, the sand assumed similar circular forms, concentric and alternating with the water elevations. 90. On strewing a little lycopodium over the water for the purpose of gaining information relative to what occurred at the surface during the crisOF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 327 pation, it moved about over the fluid in every possible direction, whilst the crispations existed of the utmost steadiness beneath. The same thing occurred with pieces of cork on very large crispations (98). But when much lycopodium was put on, so that the particles retained each other in a steady position, then it formed lines * parallel to the arrangement of the heaps, the powder being displaced from the parts over the heaps, and taking up an arrangement perpendicularly over the sand beneath. As the lycopodium forms float on the water they are easily disturbed, and in no respect approach as to beauty and utility to the forms produced by the sand; but lycopodium may be used with smaller crispations than sand. 91. The crispations are much influenced by various circumstances. They tend to commence at the place of greatest vibration; but if the quantity of fluid is too little there, and more abundant elsewhere, they will often commence at the latter place first. Their final arrangement is also much affected by the form of the plate, or of the pool of water on which they occur. When the plates or pools are rectangular, and all parts vibrate with equal velocity, the lines of heaps are at angles of 45? to the edges. But when semicircular and other plates were used, the arrangement, though quadrangular, was unsteady, often breaking up and starting by pieces into different and changing positions. 92. When mercury was used (77), the film formed on it after a few moments had great power, according to the manner in which it was puckered, of modifying the general arrangement of new crispations. 93. When a circular plate, supported by cork feet attached where a single nodal line would occur, was covered with water and vibrated by a rod resting upon the middle, the crispations extended from the middle towards the nodal line; these were sometimes arranged rectangularly, but had no steadiness of position, and changed continually. At other times the heaps appeared as if hexagonal, and were arranged hexagonally, but these also shifted continually. This and many other experiments (83) showed that the direction and nature of the vibration of the plate (i. e. of the lines of equal or varying vibrating force), had a powerful influence over the regularity and final arrangementof the crispations. * WHEATSTONE. ;MDCCCXXXI. 2 u 328 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES 94. The beautiful appearance exhibited when the crispations are produced in sunshine, or examined by a strong concentrated artificial light, has been already referred to (78. 79). When the reflected image from any one heap is examined, (for which purpose ink (75) or mercury (77) is very convenient,) it will be found not to be stationary, as would happen if the heap was permanent and at rest, nor yet' to form a vertical line, as would occur if the heap were permanent but travelled to and fro with the vibrating plate; but it moves so as to re-enter upon its course, forming an endless figure, like those produced by Dr. YOUNG'S piano-forte wires, or WHEATSTONE's kaleidophone, varying with the position of the light and the observer, but constant for any particular position and velocity of vibration. Upon placing the light and the eye in positions nearly perpendicular to the general surface of the fluid, so as to avoid the direct influence of the motion of vibration, still the luminous, linear, endless figure was produced, extending more or less in different directions, according to the relation of the light and eye to the crispated surface, and occasionally corresponding in its extent one way to the width of the heap, i. e. to the distance between the summit of one heap and its neighbours, but never exceeding it. The figure produced by one heap was accurately repeated by all the heaps when the vibrating force of the plate was equal (70) and the arrangement regular. 95. The view which I had been led to anticipate of the nature of the heaps, from the effects described in the former paper, were, that each heap was a perUmanent elevation, like the cones of lycopodium powder (53. 58), the fluid rising at the centre, but descending down the inclined sides, the whole system being influenced, regulated, and connected by the cohesive force of the fluid. But these characters of the reflected image, with others of the effects already described, led to the conclusion, that notwithstanding the apparent permanency of the crispated surface, especially when produced on a small scale, as by the usual method, the heaps were not constant, but were raised and destroyed witheach vibration of the plate; and also that the heaps did not all exist at once, but (referring to locality) formed two sets of equal number and arrangement, fig. 23, never existing together, but alternating with, and being resolved into each other, and by their rapidity of recurrence giving the appearance of simultaneous andFig. 23 OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 329 even permanent existence. Provided this view were confirmed, it seemed as if it would be easy to explain the production of the heaps their regular arrangement, &c., and to deduce their recurrence, dimensions, and many other points relative to their condition. 96. On producing a water crispation, having four or five heaps in a linear inch, placing a candle beneath, and a screen of French tracing paper above it, the phenomena were very beautiful, and such as supported the view taken. By placing the screen at different distances, it could be adapted to the focal length due to the curvature at different parts of the surface of fluid, so that by observing the luminous figure produced and its transitions as the screen was moved nearer or further, the general form of the surface could be deduced.Each heap with a certain distance of screen gave a star of light D, fig. 24, which twinkled, i. e. appeared and disappeared alternately, as the heap rose and fell. At the corners x equidistant from these, fainter starred lights appeared; and by putting the screen nearer to or further from the surface, lines of light, in two or even four directions, appearedFig. 24. oK'XI X, XX yr'Iintersecting the luminous centres and apparently permanent, whilst circumstances remained unchanged. These effects could be magnified to almost any scale (72). 97. When heaps of similar magnitude were produced, with diluted ink on glass (75), and white paper or an illuminated screen looked at through them, achequered appearance was observed. In one position, lines of a certain intensity separated the heaps from each other, but the square places representing the heaps looked generally lighter. In another position, when but little reflected light came from the surface of the heaps, their places could be perceived as dark,Fig. 25. __ Mfrom the greater depth of ink there. By care, another position could be found in which the whole surface looked like an alternate arrangement of light and dark chequers, fig. 25, not steady, but with a quivering motion, which further attention could trace as due to a rapid alternation in which the light spaces became dark and the dark light, simultaneously. When, instead of glass, a bright tin plate was used under the diluted ink, the chequered spaces and their alternations could be seen still more beautifully. 98. It was in consequence of these effects that very large arrangements were 2 u 2 330 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES made (72), giving heaps that were two inches and a half wide each*; and now it was evident, by ordinary inspection, that the heaps were not stationary, but rose and fell; and also that there were two sets regularly and alternately arranged, the one set rising as the other descended. 99. Sand gave no indications of arrangement with these large heaps (86); but when some coarse saw-dust was soaked, so as to sink in water, and then distributed in the fluid, its motions were beautifully illustrative of the whole philosophy of the phenomena. It was immediately washed away from under the rising and falling heaps, and collected in the places equidistant between these spots, as the sand did in the former experiments (86), and by its vibratory motion to and fro, it showed distinctly how the water oscillated from one heap towards another, as the heaps sunk and rose. 100. When milk (75) was used instead of water for these large arrangements in a dark room, and a candle was placed beneath, the appearances also were very beautiful, resembling in character those described (97). 101. Each heap (identified by its locality) recurs or is re-formed in two complete vibrations of the sustaining surface +; but as there are two sets of heaps, a set occurs for each vibration. The maximum and minimum of height for the heaps appears to be alternately, almost immediately after the supporting plate has begun to descend in one complete vibration. 102. Many of these results are beautifully confirmed by the appearances produced, when regular crispations have been sustained for a short time with mercury, on which a certain degree of film has been allowed to form (77). On examining the film afterwards in one light, lines could be seen on it, coinciding with the intervals of the heaps in one direction; in another light, lines coinciding with the other direction came into sight, whilst the first disappeared; and in a third light, both sets of lines could be seen cutting out the square places where the heaps had existed: in these spaces the filiri was minutely wrinkled and bagged, as if it had there been distended; at the lines it was only a little wrinkled, giving the appearance of texture; and at the crossing * This estimate is given in accordance with the nmode of estimating the former and smaller heaps, as if the heaps were formed simultaneously; but it is evident that if only half the number exist at once, each heap will have twice the width or four times the area of those which can be formed if all exist together. t A vibration is here considered as the motion of the plate, from the time that it leaves its extreme position until it returns to it, and rot the time of its return to the intermediate position. OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 331 of the lines themselves, it was quite free from mark, and fully distended. All these are natural consequences, if the film be considered as a flexible but inelastic envelope formed over the whole surface whilst the heaps were rising and falling. 103. The mode of action by which these heaps are formed is now very evident, and is analogous in some points to that by which the currents and the involving heaps already described are produced. The plate in rising tends to lift the overlying fluid, and in falling to recede from it; and the force which it is competent to communicate to the fluid can, in consequence of the physical qualities of the latter, be transferred from particle to particle in any direction. The heaps are at their maximum elevation just after the plate begins to recede from them; before it has completed its motion downwards, the pressure of the atmosphere and that part of the force of the plate which through cohesion is communicated to them, has acted, and by the time the plate has begun to return, it meets them endowed with momentum in the opposite direction, in consequence of which they do not rise as a heap, but expand laterally, all the forces in action combining to raise a similar set of heaps, at exactly intermediate distances, which attain their maximum height just after the plate again begins to recede; these therefore undergo a similar process of demolition, being resolved into exact duplicates of the first heaps. Thus the two sets oscillate with each vibration of the plate, and the action is sustained so long as the plate moves with a certain degree of force; much of that force being occupied in sustaining this oscillation of the fluid against the resistance offered by the cohesion of the fluid, the air, the friction on the plate, and other causes. 104. A natural reason now appears for the quadrangular and right-angled arrangement which is assumed, when the crispation is most perfect. The hexa-gon, the square, and the equilateral triangle are' the only regular figures that can fill an area perfectly. The square and triangle are the only figures that can allow of one half alternating symmetrically with the other, in conformity with what takes place between the two reciprocating sets of heaps, fig. 26; and of these two the boundary lines between squares are of shorter extent than those between equilateral triangles of equal area. It is evident therefore that one of these two will be finally assumed, and that that will be the -square arrangement; because then the fluidFig. 26._ MM v -V 332 MR. FARADAY ON THLE FORMS AND STATES will offer the least resistance in its undulations to the motions of the plate, or will pass most readily to those positions into which the forces it receives front the plate conspire to impel it. 105. All the phenomena observed and described may, as it appears to me, be now comprehended. The fluid may be considered as a pendulum vibrating to and fro under a given impulse; the various circumstances of specific gravity, cohesion, friction, intensity of vibrating force, &c. determining the extent of oscillation, or, what is the same thing, the number of heaps in a given interval. When the number of vibrations in a given time is increased, these heaps are more numerous, because the oscillation, to be more rapid, must occur in a shorter space. The necessity of a certain depth of fluid (73) is evident, and also the reason why, by varying the depth (82), the lateral extent of the heaps is changed. The arrangement of the sand and lycopodium, by the crispations, and the occurrence of the latter at centres of vibration, and only upon surfaces vibrating normally, are all evident consequences. The permanency of the lateral extension of the heaps, when the velocity of the vibrating plate varies, is a very marked effect, and it is probable that the investigation of these phenomena may hereafter importantly facilitate inquiries into the undulations of fluids, their physical qualities, and the transmission of forces through them. 106. As to the origin or determination of crispations, no difficulty can arise; the smallest possible difference in almost any circumstance, at any one part, would, whilst the plate is vibrating, cause an elevation or depression in the fluid there; the smallest atom of dust falling on the surface, or the smallest elevation in the plate, or the smallest particle in the fluid of different specific gravity to the liquid itself, might produce this first effect; this would, by each vibration of the plate, be increased in amount, and also by each vibration extended the breadth of a heap, in at least four directions: so that in less than a second a large surface would be affected, even under the improbable supposition that only one point should at first be disturbed. 107. I have thought it unnecessary to dwell upon the explanation of the circular linear heaps (83. 93. 1 10) produced on long or circular plates by feeble vibration. They are explicable upon the same principles, account being at the same time taken of the arrangement and proportion of vibrating force in the various parts of the plates. 108. The heaps which constitute crispation (as the word has been used in OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 333 this paper) are in form, quality, and motion of their parts, the same with what are called stationary undulations; and if the mercury in a small circular basin be tapped at the middle, stationary undulations, resembling the ring-like heaps (83. 1 10), will be obtained; or if a rectangular frame be made to beat at equal intervals of time on mercury or water, heaps like those of the crispations, arranged quadrangularly at angles of 450 to the frame, will be produced. These effects are in fact the same with those described, but are produced by a cause differing altogether. The first are the result of two progressing and opposed undulations the second of four: but the heaps of crispations are produced by the power impressed on the fluid by the vibrating plate; are due to vibrations of that fluid occurring in twice the time of the vibrations of the plate; and have no dependence on progressive undulations, originating laterally, as many of the phenomena described prove. Thus, when the edges were bevelled (72. 110), or covered with cloth, or wet saw.dust, so that waves reaching the side should be destroyed, or when the limits of the water or plates were round (91) or irregular, still the heaps were produced, and their arrangement square. When the round plate (93) was used, regular crispations were still produced, though, as the water extended over the nodal line, and was there perfectly undisturbed, no progressing and opposed undulations could originate to produce them. Vellum stretched over a ring, and rendered concave by the pressure of the exciting rod, produced the same effect. 109. When a plate of tin, rendered very slightly concave, was attached to a lathr (69), so as to have equality of vibratory motion in all its parts, and a little dilute alkali (which would wet the surface) put into it, the crispations formed in the middle, but ceased towards the sides, where, though well wetted there was not depth enough of water, and from whence also no waves could be reflected to produce stationary undulations in the ordinary manner. 1 10. When a similar arrangement was made with mercury on. a concave tin plate, the effects were still more beautiful and convincing. The centre portion was covered with one regular group of quadrangular crispations; at some distance fronm the centre, and where the mercury was less in depth, these passed into concentric, ring-like heaps, of which there were a great many; and outside of these there was a part wet with mercury, but with too little fluid to give either lines or heaps. Here there could be no reflected waves; or, if that were thought possible, those waves could not have formed both the circular rings and 334 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES the square crispation. When this plate was vibrated, the mercury spread il all directions up the side, a natural consequence of the production of powerful oscillations at the middle, which would extend their force laterally, but quite against their being due to the opposition and crossing of waves originating at the sides. I I 1. A limited depth of fluid is by no means necessary to produce crispations on the surface (73). A circular glass basin about five inches in diameter and four inches deep was attached to a lath (69), filled with water and vibrated, the exciting rod being applied at the side (71). The surface of the water was immediately covered with the most regular crispations, i. e. heaps arranged quadrangularly. On taking out part of the water and filling it up with oil, the oil assumed the same superficies. On putting an inch in depth of mercury under the water, the mercury became crispated. The experiment was finally made with water fourteen inches in depth. Particles at a very moderate depth in the water seemed to have no motion except the general motion of the fluid, and the whole of the lower part of the water may be considered as performing the part of a solid mass upon which the superficial undulating portion reposed. In fact it matters not to the fluid, what is beneath, provided it has sufficient cohesion, is uniform in relation to the surface fluid, and can transmit the vibrations to it in an undisturbed manner *. 112. The beautiful action thus produced at the limits of two immiscible fluids, differing in density or some other circumstances, by which the denser was enabled most readily to accommodate itself to rapid, regular and alternating displacements of its support when that support was horizontal, suggested an inquiry into the probable arrangement of the fluid when the displacements were lateral or even superficial.1 13. On arranging the long plate (67. .81) vertically, so that the lower extremity dipped about one third of an inch into water, fig. 27, and causing it to vibrate by applying the rod at X, or by tapping the plate with the finger, undulations of a peculiar character were observed: those passing from the plate towards the sides of the basin were scarcely visible though the plate vibrated strongly, but in place of such appeared others, in the production of which the mechanical forceFig. 27.* I have seen the water in a pail placed in a barrow, and that on the head of an upright cask in a brewer's van passing over stones, exhibit these elevations. OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 335 of the vibrating plate exerted upon the fluid was principally employed. These were apparently permanent elevations, at regular intervals, strongest at the plate,; projecting directly out from it over the surface of the water, like the teeth of a coarse comb gradually diminishing in height, and extending half or three quarters of an inch in length. These varied in commencing at the glass, or having intervening ridges, or in height, or in length, or in number, or in breaking up into violently agitated pimples and drops, &c. according as the plate dipped more or less into the water, or vibrated more or less violently, or subdivided whilst vibrating into parts, or changed in other circumstances. But when the plate (sixteen or seventeen inches long) dipped about one sixth of an inch, then four of these linear heaps occupied as nearly as possible the same space as four heaps formed with the same plate in the former way (83) and accompanied with the same sound. 114. By fixing a wooden lath (69) perpendicularly downwards in a vice, plates of any size or form could be attached to its lower end and immersed more or less in water; and by varying the immersion of the plate, or the length of the lath, or the place against which the exciting rod (71) was applied, the vibrations could be varied in rapidity to any extent.115. On using a piece of board at the extremity of the lath, eight inches long and three inches deep, with pieces of tin plate four inches by five, fixed on at the ends in a perpendicular position to prevent lateral disturbance at thoseFig. 28. [ A I 1 -1I I Li IkI 71parts, very regular and beautiful ridges were obtained of any desired width, fig. 28. These ridges, as before, formed only on the wood, and were parallel to the direction of its vibration. They occurred on each side of the vibrating plane with equal regularity, force and magnitude, but seemed to have no connection, for sometimes they corresponded in position, and at other times not; the one set shifting a little, without the others being displaced. 116. It could now be observed that the ridges on either side the vibrating plane consisted of two alternating sets; the one set rising as the other fell. For each fro and to motion of the plane, or one complete vibration, one of the sets appeared, so that in two complete vibrations the cycle of changes was complete. Pieces of cork and lycopodium powder showed that there was no important current setting in the direction of the ridges; towards the heads MDCCCXXX1. 2 x 336 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES of the ridges pieces of cork oscillated from one ridge towards its neighbour, and back again. The lycopodium sometimes seemed to move on the, ridges from the wood, and between them to it; but the motion was irregular, and there was no general current outwards or inwards. There was not so much disturbance as amongst the heaps (90). 117. A very simple arrangement exhibits these ripples beautifully. If an oval or circular pan, fifteen or eighteen inches in diameter, be filled with water, and a piece of lath (69) twelve or fifteen inches long be, held in it, edge upwards, so as to bear against the sides of the pan as supporting points, and cut the surface of the water, then on being vibrated horizontally by the glass rod and wet finger, the phenomenon immediately appears with ripples. an inch or more in length. When the upper edge of the lath was an inch below the surface, the ripples could be produced. When the vessel had a glass bottom, the luminous figures produced by a light beneath and a screen above, were very beautiful (96). Glass, metal and other plates could thus be easily experimented with. 1 18. These ripple-like stationary undulations are perfectly analogous as to cause, arrangement and action with the heaps and crispations already explained, i. e. they are the results of that vibrating motion in directions perpendicular to the force applied (105), by which the water can most readily accommodate itself to rapid, regular, and alternating changes in bulk. in the immediate neighbourhood of the oscillating parts. 119. From this view of the effect it was evident that similar phenomena would be produced if a substance were made to vibrate in contact with and normally to the surface of a fluid, or indeed in any other direction. A lathwas therefore fixed horizontally in a vice by one end, so that the other could vibrate vertically; a cork was cemented to the under surface of the free end, and a basin of water placed beneath with its surface just touching the cork; on vibrating the lath by means of the glass rod and fingers (67),Fig. 29.a beautiful and regular star of ridges two, three, or even four inches in length, was formed round the cork, fig. 29. These ridges were more or less numerous according to the number of vibrations, &c. As the water was raised, and more OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 337 of the cylinder immersed, the ridges diminished in strength, and at last disappeared: when the cylinder of cork just touched the surface, they were most powerfully developed. This is a necessary consequence of the dependence of the ridges upon the portion of water which is vertically displaced and restored at each vibration. When that, being partial in relation to the whole surface, is at or near the surface, the ridges are freely formed in the immediate vicinity, when at a greater depth (being always at the bottom of the cork), the displacement is diffused over a larger mass and surface, each particle moves through less space and with less velocity, and consequently the vibrations must be stronger or the ridges be weaker or disappear altogether. The refraction of a light through this star produces a very beautiful figure on a screen. 120. A heavy tuning-fork vibrating, but not too strongly, if placed with the end of one limb either vertical, inclined, or in any other position, just touching the surface of water, ink, milk, &c. (75), shows the effect very well for a moment. It also shows the ridges on mercury, but the motion and resistance of so dense a body quickly bring the fork to rest. It formed ridges in hot oil, but not in cold oil (76). With cold oil a very inclined fork produced a curious pump-like action, throwing up four streams, easily explained when witnessed, but not so closely connected with the present phenomena as to require more notice here. 121. There is a well known effect of crispation produced when a large glass full of water is made to sound by passing the wet finger round the edges. The glass divides into four vibrating parts opposite to which the crispations are strongest, and there are four nodal points considered in relation to a horizontal section, at equal distances from each other, the finger always touching at one of them. If the vessel is a large glass jar, and soft sounds are produced, the surface of the water exhibits the ridges at the centres of vibration; as the sound is rendered louder, these extend all round the glass, and at last break up at the centres of vibration into irregular crispations, but both the ridges and crispations are effects of the kind already described, and require no further explanation. 122. There are some other effects, one of which I wish here briefly to notice, as connected more or less with the vibratory phenomena that have been described. If, during a strong steady wind, a smooth flat sandy shore, with 2x 2 338 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES enough water on it, either from the receding tide or from the shingles above, to cover it thoroughly, but not to form waves, be observed in a place where the wind is not broken by pits or stones, stationary undulations will be seen over the whole of the wet surface, forming ridges like those already described, and each several inches long. These are not waves of the ordinary kind; they are accurately parallel to the course of the wind; they are of uniform width whatever the extent of surface, varying in width only as the force of the wind and the depth of the stratum of water varies. They may be seen at the windward side of the pools on the sand, but break up so soon as waves appear. If the waves be quelled by putting some oil on the water to windward, these ripples then appear on those parts. They are often seen, but so confused that their nature could not be gathered from such observations, on the pavements, roads, and roofs when sudden gusts of wind occur with rain. The character of these ripples, and their identity with stationary undulations, may be ascertained by exerting the eye and the mind to resolve them into two series of ordinary advancing waves moving directly across the course of the wind in opposite directions. But as such series could not be caused by the wind exerted in a manner similar to that by which ordinary waves are produced, (the direction being entirely opposed to such an idea,) I think the effect is due to the water acquiring an oscillatory condition similar to those described, probably influenced in some way by the elastic nature of the air itself (124) and analogous to the vibration of the strings of the .lEolian harp, or even to the vibration of the columns of air in the organ-pipe and other instruments with embouchures. These ridges were strong enough to arrange the sand beneath where ordinary waves had not been powerful enough to give form to the surface. 123. All the phenomena as yet described are such as take place at the surfaces of those fluids in common language considered as inelastic, and in which the elasticity they possess performs no necessary part; nor is it possible that they could be produced within their mass. But on extending the reasoning, it does not seem at all improbable that analogous effects should take place in gases and vapour, their elasticity supplying that condition necessary for vibration which in liquids is found in an abrupt termination of the mass by an unt confined surface. OF FLUIDS ON VIBRATING ELASTIC SURFACES. 339 124. If this be so, then a plate vibrating in the atmosphere may have the air immediately in contact with it separated into numerous portions, forming two alternating sets like the heaps described (95); the one denser, and the other rarer than the ordinary atmosphere these sets alternating with each other by their alternate expansion and condensation with each vibration of the plate. 125. With the hope of discovering some effect of this kind, a flat circular tin plate had a raised edge of tin three quarters of an inch high fixed on all round, and the plate was then attached to a lath (69), a little lycopodium put on to it, and vibrated powerfully, so that the powder should form a mere cloud in the air, which, in consequence of the raised edge and the equal velocity (70) of all parts of the plate, had no tendency to collect. Immediately it was seen that in place of a uniform cloud it had a misty honeycomb appearance, the whole being in a quivering condition; and on exerting the attention to perceive waves as it were travelling across the cloud in opposite directions, they could be most distinctly traced. This is exactly the appearance that would be produced by a dusty atmosphere lying upon the surface of a plate and divided into a number of alternate portions rapidly expanding and contracting simultaneously. 126. But the spaces were very many times too small to represent the inter-. val through which the air by its elasticity would vibrate laterally once for two vibrations of the plate, in analogy with the phenomena of liquids; and this forms a strong objection to its being an effect of that kind. But it does not seem impossible that the air may have vibrated in subdivisions like a string or a long column of air; and the air itself also being -laden with particles of lycopodium would have its motions rendered more sluggish thereby. I have not had time to extend these experiments, but it is probable that a few, well chosen, would decide at once whether these appearances of the particles in the air are due to real lateral vibrations of the atmosphere, or merely to the direct action of the vibrating plate upon the particles. 127. If the atmosphere vibrates laterally in the manner supposed, the effect is probably not limited to the immediate vicinity of the plate, but extends to some distance. The vertical plates intersecting the surface of water and vibrating in a horizontal plane (1 17) produced ripples proceeding directly out from them five or six inches long; whilst the waves parallel to the vibrating plate 340 MR. FARADAY ON THE FORMS AND STATES OF FLUIDS, &c. were hardly sensible; and something analogous to this may take place in the atmosphere. If so, it would seem likely that these vibrations occurring conjointly with those producing sound, would have an important influence upon its production and qualities, upon its apparent direction, and many other of its phenomena. 128. Then by analogy these views extend to the undulatory theory of light, and especially to that theory as modified by M. FRESNEL. That philosopher, in his profound investigations of the phenomena of light, especially when polarized, has conceived it necessary to admit that the vibrations of the ether take place transversely to the ray of light, or to the direction of the wave causing its phenomena "In fact we may conceive direct light to be an assemblage, or rather a rapid succession, of an infinity of systems of waves polarized (i. e. vibrating transversely) in all azimuths, and so that there is as much polarized light in any one plane as in a plane perpendicular to it." HIERSCHEL says that FRESNEL supposes the eye to be affected only by such vibrating motions of the ethereal molecules as are performed in planes perpendicular to the direction of the rays. Now the effects in question seem to indicate how the direct vibration of the luminous body may communicate transversal vibration in every azimuth to the molecules of the ether, and so account for that condition of it which is required to explain the phenomena. 129. When the star of ridges formed by a vibrating cylinder (119) upon the surface of water is witnessed instead of the series of circular waves that might be expected, it seems like the instant production of the phenomena of radiation by means of vibratory action. Whether the contiguous rarified and condensed portions which I have supposed in air, gases, vapour and the ether, are arranged radially like the ridges in the experiment just quoted, or whether rare and dense alternate in the direction of the radii as well as laterally, is a question which may perhaps deserve investigation by experiment or calcu.lation. Royal Institution, July 30th, 1831. 