VI Part of a Letter from Mr Clark to Mr Ludlow, concerning several Roman Antiquities found near the Devizes in Wiltshire. S I R, THere has lately happened near us a very remarkable passage, which for the uncommonness of it deserves a more particular account than I shall pretend to give you. On Decemb. the 4th, 1699, a certain person digging in a ground of Sir John Eyles's, near the Devizes in Wiltshire, about two foot under the surface took up a Pot of a pretty narrow mouth, about 18 Inches in its greatest circumference, and 10 Inches deep, the Clay of a bluish colour, and of such strength and compactness, as it seem'd but little injur'd by Time, containing several hundred piecesof ancient Roman Coyn by different Emperors, with great variety of curious Figures and Devices on the Reverses. The most were of Copper, (759) Copper, and but a very few of mixt metal. A great number had the Characters effac'd, but the legible were the fairest I ever saw; a great many choice pieces were pick'd out before I had the opportunity to view them in the condition they were found. However, I had the luck to light on as good as most were. 'Tis observable many of the said Pieces were gilt with Silver, which on several that I have seen seem'd very little impaired, tho they have lain under ground for some Ages, and appear'd as much Canker'd as the rest. I have among several others two very odd Pieces; one of them gilt; on one side a Womans face, with this Inscription S A L O N I N A A U G, the other a Womans face, part of the Inscription H E L E N A, the remaining Characters I cannot decypher. On the Reverse P A X P V B L I C A. This latter is of a mixt metal resembling Brass, of the largeness of a Silverpenny ungilt. Thus far of Coyn. Now I conceive it not amiss to let you understand, that about the same time, and within a few yards of the same place, were found some Pots, made of a very firm and durable Clay, of pretty strange Figures, and different Earth, two of which I have by me, one of them somewhat resembling an Oyster-pot, is about ~ of an inch thick, 9 inches in Circumference, and 5 1/2 in depth, and for strength and compactness, scarce to be parallelled by any now made; the other is one half of the Pot, in which the treasure was found. There is likewise another Pot in the hands of another person, of about 11 Inches circumference, and 3 1/3 deep, wherein was found a whitish Powder, supposed by the owner to be the ashes of humane Bones, and therefore by him taken to be an Urn. But the Experiment made on the supposed Bone ashes, by putting a small portion into the bowl of a clean Tobacco-pipe made glowing, it soon appear'd to the contrary; for the said matter immediately kindled (760) dled into a bright flame, and sent forth a scent somewhat like that of hoofs or horns, tho it had a very fragrant smell before. I am told moreover, that 'tis very usual in these parts of the Kingdom to find various sorts of ancient Earthen Ware, some exceeding China in fineness. I remember I once saw a Piece in the hands of an <inferred>Apothecary</inferred> in Caln, that had been finely gilt with Gold: The same Apothecary has also a very good stock of Ancient Coyns by him: which is all the account I am able to give you at present. If any thing further occurs to my knowledge, you shall be sure to hear from Your humble Servant, J. Clarke. 