An Account of Three Books. 1. Esperienze intorno alla Generatione Degl' Insetti, satte da Francisco Redi, Academico della Crusca. In Firenze, A. 1668. in 40. THe Learned and Ingenious Author of this Book, lately come to the Publishers hands, though not yet (which is much disliked by the curious) into our Stationers Shops, doth with much industry undertake therein to evince, that there is no such thing as AEquivocal Generation but that every Animal is generated by the seed of another Animal, (its parent,) or, at least, from some Living and un-corrupted Plant, as out of Oak-Apples, and several Protuberances and Excrescencies of Vegetables. First then, in the asserting of the Universal and true Generation of Insects by a peculiar and paternal Seed, the Author positively affirms, that he could never find, by all the Experiments and Observations, he ever made (of which he relateth a great number, by himself made upon all sorts of Animals) that ever any Insects were bred from Flesh, or Fish, or putrisied Plants, or any other Bodies, but such, as Flies had access unto, and scatter'd their seed upon; he having taken extraordinary care and pains to observe, that alwayes on the Flesh, before it did verminate, there sate Flies of the self same kind with those, that were afterwards produc'd thence; and again, that no Worms would ever come from any Flesh in Veslels well cover'd, and defended from the access of Flies; so that to him there is no generation of Insects from any dead Animals, but such as have been fly-blown. And least it should be objected, that the reason, why in vessels exactly clos'd, no Insect breeds, is the want of Air, necessary to all Generation, He hath carefully covered several vessels with very fine Naples-vaile, for the Air to enter, though Flyes could not; but that no worms at all were bred there, notwithstanding that many Flyes swarmed about them, invited by the smel of the Flesh inclosed therein. Secondly, to make out the other part of his Position. viz. That these Animals that are not bred by the seed of other Animals, are produced from some live Plant, or its Excre(1176) Excrescence; This Author esteems it not absurd to affirme, that that Anima or Power, which is able to produce Flowers and Fruits in living Plants, may be alike capable to breed Worms in them; since that Soul is so powerful, as to cause Plants to feed, to grow and to produce seed, as it doth in Animals. For confirmation of which, he observeth, that both the generation of Worms in Vegetables is always and constantly the same (not at all casual,) and that all Galls grow constantly in one determinat part of the branches, and always in the new branches; as also, that those little Gills, which grow on the leaves of the Oak Holm &c. do all grow constantly on the fibres or strings of those leaves, not one of them being seen to grow on the smooth part betwixt two strings: Farther,that there are found many leaves of other trees, on which grow Vesicles, or small baggs, or some wrinkled or swell'd places, full of worms, springing forth with those leaves. Besides, that there is not one Gall,but it hath its proper worm; and that each sort of galls hath its peculiar and determinate race of worms and flyes, which never vary: Where he takes notice of the singular Art of Nature both in forming the Egg,which is found in the center of Galls, and in preparing its place therein, furnishing it with many filaments, that pass from the Gall-aple to the Egg, as so many veins and Arteries, serving for the formation of the Egg and Worm,and for the nourishment requisite thereto. To which he adds this Observation,that,there being certain sorts of Galls, which breed more worms at a time than one, Nature hath carefully provided and distinguisht places for them, as she doth in those Animals,that are multiparous. Having establisht this ground against AEquivocal generation, he proceeds to particulars, and refutes the opinion of those, that will have Bees to be bred of the putrifyed flesh of Bullocks; VVasps, of Asses or Mules flesh; Drones, of Horses; Sco pions,of buried Crafithes, or the herb Basilica, or dead Scorpions: Toads, of Ducks buried in Dung; Mites, of Cheese, affirming, that none of these Insects have any such origin mentioned, but that all those substances have been first blown upon by some Flye or other. He intersperseth through the whole Book many curious and considerable Observations, relating to this Subject: As,that some Flyes are viviparous, others oviparous only, yet not denying, but that the same Flyes may sometimes breed live worms, sometimes lay eggs, according to the more or less heat of the season. 2. That Humane bodies breed worms, but not immediately, but by Insects blowing on them. 3. That Fruit and Herbs, crude or boyled, kept closed up, breed no Vermin, but in an open place, do breed some. 4. That there are no Animals partly animated,partly yet earthy, nor Animals half animated, and half wood. 5. That worms breed in the Livers of Mutton, and the Heads of Staggs,he having seen divers of them in both these kinds of Animals,and esteeming that the soul of the superiour animal was able to breed those inferiour animals. 6. That Lice are bred of Eggs or nits, laid by their Femal-parent; he having discerned by a Microscope some nits yet pregnant with young ones, others, emptied of them. 7. That all living Creatures are subject to lice or some such kind of Vermine; the Assc not being exempted from them, as Aristotle, and upon his authority, Pliny, Mouffet &c would have it: And that all sorrs of sowle (except Ostridges, in which he never could meet with any Vermin in any season,) and fish, have each sort their peculiar lice: Of which he hath represented divers of several sorts. N B. The Author promises in this Treatise a very particular History of the various Fruits and Animals, that are generated of Oaks and other Trees. II. Pharmacepoeia Regia, five Dispensatorium Novum locupletatum & absolutum, cum annexa Mantilla Spagyrica, & gemino Discursu Apologetico contra Ott. Tachenium, & Franc. Vernis. Auth Joh Zwelfer. M. D. A. 1668. in folio. THe Author of this Volume, after he had publisht to the World his Animadversions upon the Pharmacopoeia Augustana, and after that,a Pharmacopoeia Regia, and then, an Appendix superadded to both, pretends now in this vast Work to deliver something compleat of this kind, following the Experiments and Operations made in his Laboratory, by which he affirms to have given us the Compositions aud Preparat ionof the choisest Medicaments, performed by a genuin and accurat Method, according to the 19. Classes (1177) 19. Classes of the Augustan Dispensatory, and directing all to the principal parts of the humane Body, and the particular Cases of Patients, so that in almost each Classis there may be found (he Judgeth) precious remedies described for every sickness, un-common ones, and confirmed by Natural and Medical Reasons,and Experience itself. Where he ingenuously cautions his Reader, above all things to examine, by whom Medicins are prepared, and particularly instanceth in a Preparation of Antimonium Diaphoreticum, which, though himself had used it, when duely and by himself prepared, with very great success against the Plague, yet had found almost fatal to himself; upon occasion taking it, when prepared by a Pseudo Chymist. In the annexed Mantissa he describes the Medicins, that may be made of all sorts of Metals; as also of Antimony, Vitriol, Sulphur, Niter,and Tartar; among all which (to note that upon the by) he declareth the vertue of Aurum fulminans for an excellent Diaphoretick; and teacheth,how its fulminating force may be taken away, viz. by a little Spirit of Salt powred on it, or by some distilled Vinegar boyled with it. Farther, our Author in his Defence against Tachenius (who with some sharpness had attacked all his former Writings) makes it his business, to refute Tachenius his way of Fixing the Volatil Salt of Vipers,which,it seems,he had formerly communicated to him when they friendly conversed together, but,upon tryal, proved false: Where our Author takes occasion to evince it not to be true, that Animals contain none but Volatile Salt, and that Vegetables likewise have not a grain of fixt Salt, except it be produced therein by the Fire; both which Tachenius seems to have asserted. To which he adds an examination of the Doctrine of Salts, delivered by the said Tachenius in his Hippocrates Chymicus, not at all approving, that he confounds the Lixiviats and A calyes with the Salts of Minerals and Animals,in that he gives to these two latter kinds of Salts one general name of Alcaly's: Where many things occur, belonging to the making of Soap, Glass, Verdegrease; as also to the Liquor distilled out of Calx viva, to Fulminating Gold,the Melting of Metals, the Salt of Tartar, the Generation of the Stone in Animals, the Alcalys and Resuscitation of Vegetables; the Helmontian Ludus, &c. Moreover, this Author vindicates himself against the Notes of one Eranc. Verni of Montpelier,written upon the Pharmacopoeia Bricii Bauderonii; publisht in French A. 1662. at Lyons,in 4o. in which Notes the said Verny excepts against our Author concerning the Preparation of the Compounded Acid Syrup of Mesve, and the confection of Alkermes. In this Work is also contained the Third and Enlarged Edition of the Authors Animadversions upon the Pharmacopocia Augustana, and its Mantissa; wherein,by a genuine and dextrous Method, the Preparations of Simple and Compounded Medicins are so delivered,and the Errors of the Ancients in such a manner detected,that from thence, by preserving and exalting the Vertues of the Simple Medicaments, they shall become much fitter means in the Hands of Physitians,suddenly,safely and pleasantly to remove the distempers and Maladies of Humane Bodies. To all which is also annexed his Spagyrick Appendix,wherein,what may seem in those Animadversions to be somewhat obscure and imperfect, is pretended to be so much farther explained and perfected that it may not only render them farr more clear, but also enrich them with divers uncommon Considerations and Remedies: Where the Reader will meet, among many considerable Observations, a very necessary Caution concerning the Oriental Bezoar, of which the Author notes, there must needs be innumerable sophisticated ones, considering the multitude of them, pretended to be true ones, seen every where,in all parts and places of the World, whereas yet the Creature,whence 'tis taken,being a Savage Animal,like a kid, is not to be had but by Hunting,and that but in one corner of the East-Indies: Which Consideration induces our Author to conclude,that most of those Stones are factitious,prepared perhaps out of Magisteries of Alexipharmical Plants, as Scordium,Rue and the like; which may also be of good use in causing sweat and expelling poysen. III. Affecti(1178) III. Affectionum quae dicuntur Hysterica & Hypochondriacae Pathalogia Spasmodica Vindicata,contra Responsion. Epistol. Nathanaelis Highmori M. D. Cui accessere Exercitat.Medico-physicae duae, 1. De Sanguinis Accensione. 2. De Motu Musculari, Auth. Tho. Willis M. D. Nat. Philos. Prof. Oxon, nec non Med. Coll. Londini & Soc. Regiae Sodalis. Londini apud Jac. Allestry In 4~. THe Learned Author of this Book makes it his chief business therein, to vindicate his Doctrine, which maketh the two Affections,expressed in the Title, to belong to the Brain and the Nerves, from the Arguments alledged by the other Learned Physitian Dr Highmore, who makes the one to be a distemper of the Bloud and Lungs, and the other of the Stomach. In the doing of which, our Author first undertakes to shew, by several considerable Arguments, that the affections, called Hysterical, cannot proceed from the Lungs stufled up to a great degree of stiffness with flatulent Bloud; seconding them by some Histories and Observations, which seem very pertinent to his purpose: Which done, he proceeds to remove the difficulties and Objections, alledged by Dr Highmore in his Epistle,formerly printed, and taken notice of in N. 54. of these Transactions. Secondly, he endeavors to evince, that the Hypochondriack passion is wrongfully ascribed to the Stomach. Where he taketh occasion, both to deny to the Spleen the office of Warming the Stomach,and to assert the Fermentative function of the same: Teaching withal, that the Acidity is not produced in the stomach alone, nor thence only communicated to the Bloud and other humors; and that it proceeds from the fluor of the Salt, and that that Salt is one of the Elements of Natural things; which latter he attempts to make out by Experiments against the Objections of his Adversary. To this Vindication are annext two Exercitations, whereof the First is concerned in proving the Accension of the Bloud: Where the Author undertakes to shew, that the Bloud being animate, that Animation or Life depends from its being kindled, forasmuch as the proper affections of Fire and Flame belong to the Life of the Bloud; which is here deduced at large; although it be withal acknowledged,that this Vital Flame doth not, as the common Flame,appear to view, in regard that its Form is subordinate to another supertor Form, viz. the Corporeal Soul of the Animal. The second Discourse treateth of the Muscular Motion, where, having declared,that Dr Steno hath been the first that hath delivered aright the Structure of Muscles, and that the Figures described by him are visible in them; and also made out the motions of their Fibers by divers Anatomical Experiments; besides many other considerable particulars: He asserts,that the Motion of Muscles depends from a constant Influx both of the Bloud and the Animal spirits; and that the latter alone, without being associated by the former, cannot perform that moving function; maintaining, that as the Spirits (or Springy particles) in the contraction of a Muscle rush out of the Tendons into the Fleshy parts of it, and in the relaxation,skip back from these into those, so those Spirits,lying quiet within the Tendons, do swell the Fleshy fibres by conflicting and strugling there with the particles of Bloud. To which he adds the manner,how the Instinct (as he pleaseth to call it) of performing or stopping the Muscular Motion, is imprinted by the Nerves in the Muscles: Subjoyning also divers important particulars concerning two sorts of Spasmes or Convulsions proceeding from the Muscles, with an illustration of the same by a very remarkable case. All which he concludeth with solving the Objections,to which this his Doctrine of the Muscles may be lyable, and annexing some Figures, very lively repreting some Muscles, together with an Explication of the same. L O N D O N, Printed by T. N. for John Martyn Printer to the Royal Society, 1670. 