P R E S E N T S RECRIVID BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY,7 From November 1814 to June 1815. WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS.1814. PRESENTS. Nov. io. Dictionnaire Chinois, Frangais, et Latin, par M. De Guignes. Paris, I813. fol. Annales de Mathematiques pures et appliquees, par J. D. Gergonne, et I. E. Thlomnas Lavernede. Tome I-III, and Tonme IV, No. i-io. Paris, i8io, &c. 40 Legons de Mecanique analytique, par M. de Prony. i. Partie. Paris, i810. 40 Astronomie theorique et pratique, par M. Delambre. Paris, 1814. 3 Vols. 4 Abre'ge d' Astronomie on Lcqons 6l6mentaires d'Astronomie theorique et pratique, par M. Delambre. Paris, 18I3. 80 Memoires de Chirurgie militaire et Campagnes de D. J. Larrey. Paris, I8I2. 3 Vols. 80 Recherches sur le Mouvement des Onides, par M. N. Th. Bremontier. Paris, 18o9. 80 Journal des Mines, No. 207. Traite 616vmmtaire du Calcul des Inequations, par N, F. Caniard. Paris, i8oS. 80 Notice sur la Moe11e et 1'Etui medullaire des Arbres dicotyledones 80 Essai sur la 1Phe'nome'ne de la Vegetation, par M. Feburier. Paris, 1812. 80 Traite complet theoorique et pratique sur les Abeillks, par M. Feburier. Paris, i81O. 80 Memoire et Observations sur la Reunion de la Plaie apres I'Amputation, par M. Roux. Paris, 1814 8?DONORS* M. De Guignes. MM. Gergonne, and Lavernede. M. de Prony. M. Delambre. M. Larrey. M. Bremontier. Conseil des Mines de France. M. N. F. Canard. M. Feburier. M. Roux. L 449 I181I4e PESE N TS. Nov. io. Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar fir Ar 1813. Stockholm, 1813. 80 Abhandlungen der Historisch-philologischen Klasse der Iioniglich Preussisschen Akademie der:Wissenschaften aus den Jahren, i804i8ii. Berlin, 1814. 40 De Arragonite ejusque Differentia a Spatho Calcareo rhomboidale Chemica, a F.Stromeyer. 40 Lettre inedite de la Seigneurie de Florence au Pape Sixte +, 21 Juillet, 1478. 40 Civil Establishment, a Sermon preached in the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, York, 20th1 March, 18 14, by the Rev. Francis Wrangham. York, 181 4 4 40 An Index to the Anatomical, Medical, Chirurgical, and Physiological Papers contained in the Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Westminster, 1814. 40 Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. z. London, 1814. 40 Rlements of Astronomy, by John Brinkley, D.D. Dublin, I 813. 8? Fan Hy-Cheu, a Tale, in Chinese and English, with Notes, and a short Grammar of the Chinese Language, by Stephen Weston, B. D. London, i Si. 8? Ensayo Medico Practico sobre el Tifus Icterodes, por el Dr. en Med. et Cir. Don Francisco Flores Moreno. Cadiz. 80 Leggi antiche di Sicilia. DD. G ils. Eman. Ortolani. Palermo. 120 Produzioni matematiche dell' Abbate D. Dionigio Soda. Napoli, i8jz. I20 Soluzione et Dimostrazione del difficilissimo Problema della Trisezione della Linea retta. Napoli, 18 I 3. i2s Facilitazione del generale Problema della Trisezioneangolare. Napoli, 18i3.12 The Monthly Review from June to October, 1814; and Appendix to Vol. 7,4. Annals of Philosophy, No. 20-7Z3. Philosophical Magazine from July to October, 1814. The Zoological Miscellany, No. 6-io. The European Magazine from -June to October, 1814. A Voyage round the World, performed by order of his Imperial Majesty the -Emperor of all the Russias, in the Years 1803, 1804, 180So and i 8o6, on board the Ships Nadeshda, and Neva, commanded by Capt. Krusenstern, 3 Vols. 4to. In the RussianL Language, and an Atlas in fol. M.DCCCXV. 3 MDONORS. Royal Academy. of Sciences at Stockholm. Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. M. Stromeyer. Hon. Francis Henry Egerton. Rev. FrancisWrangham. James Briggs, Esq. The Geological Society. Rev. Dr. Brinkley. Rev. Stephen Weston. Don Fr. Flo. Moreno. DD.Gius. Em.'Ortolani. D. Dionigio Soda. Mr. Griffiths. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Dr. W. Us. Leach. Ithe Editor. Capt. Krusenstern. E 450 iI8I4, PRESENTS. NoV. Io. M emoire sur une Carte du Detroit de Ia Sonde, et de la Rade de Batavia, par le Capitaine de Krusenstern. St. Petersburg, 1.813, 4to. Worter Sammlungen aus den Sprachen einiger V61ker des bstlichen Asiens und der Nordwest. Kiuste von Amerika, bekannt gemacht von A. J. v. Krusenstern. St. Petersburgh, 1813. 40 17. Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliotheque Imperiale et autres Bibliotheques. Tome IX. Paris, 1813. Analyse botanique des Embryons endorhizes, par Louis Claude Richard. Paris, x 8 II. e Essai d'une nouvelle Agrostographie, par A. M. F. Palisot de Beauvois. Paris, i8iz. 4 Lettre de M, Palisot Baron de Beauvois 'a M. De la Metherie. Essai sur les Horloges publiques, par Antide Janvier. Paris, I8iI. ; 80 Des Revolutions des Corps celestes par le Mecanisme de Pouages, par Antide Janvier. Paris, I8 1 2. 4 Journal des Mines. No. zo8. Histoire des Sectes religieuses, par M. Gregoire. Paris, 1814. 2 VOIS. 8? De la Domesticite chez les Peuples anciens et modernes, par M. Gregoire. Paris, I8i4. 8? Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. V. Lon.don, 1814. 80 Versuche uiber die Erwarmung verschiedener Korper durch die Sonenstrahlen, von Dr. Carl Wilhelm Boekman. Karlsruhe, 811. 8? Mernoire sur l'Usage de l'Epiglotte dans laDeglu. tition. Paris, 18I3. 80 Memoire stir le Vormissernent. Paris, 18I3. 80 MeniVoire stur les Organes de l'Absorption cbez les Mammif6res. `O Experiences pour servir a l'Histoire de la Transpiratiohs pulmonaire. 8? Examen de l'Action de quelques Vegetaux sur la MoElle epiniere. 80 De lP'nfluence de l'Emetique sur l'Homme et les Animaux. Paris, 18I3. 80 24. Sermons preached at St. Paul's Cathedral and other Churches, by the Rev. William Tooke, when Chaplain to the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor. 4, Dec. 8. A Chart of the Indian Ocean, by James Horsburgh, Esq. Grundriss der Experimental Physick entworfen von Dr. C. W. G. Kastner. Heidelberg, 18I0. 2 Va . 8V Einleitung in die neuere Chemie. Halle und Berlin, 181+. 8DON O RS e Capt. Krusenstern. The Institute of France. M. Richard. Le Baron de Beauvois, M. Janvier. Conseil des Mines de France. Bp. Gregoire. Medical Chirurgical Society. Dr. Bo&kman. M. Majendie. The Rev. W. Tooke. James Horsburgh, Esq. Dr. Kastner. r 45; I1814. PRtESENTS. Dec. 8. The first Report of a Society for preventing Accidents in Coal Mines. Newcastle, 1814. 80 Annals of Philosophy. No. 24. Philosophical Magazine for November. Monthly Review for November. European Magazine for November. The Zoological Miscellany. No. i l. Dec. 15. Magna Britannia. Vol. III. by the Rev. Daniel Lysons and Samuel Lysons, Esq. London, 1814. 4 Theorie analytique des Probabilites, par le Comte Laplace, 2d edit. Paris. 4Description de l'Ecole d'Agriculture pratique duMuseum d'Histoire Naturelle,parA.Thouini. 4, Della Natura delle Febbri e del meglior Metodo di curarli, del Dr. Giuseppe Giannini. Milan, 805o. 2 Vols. 80 Experiences sur la Digestion dans l'Homme, par A. Jenin de Montegre. Paris, x814. 80 Objections contre l'Attraction, par G. A. MareI8Ii. schal. Paris, I814. 8? Yan. I 2. The Monthly Review for December. The Philosophical Magazine for December. Annals of Philosophy No. 25. The European Magazine for December. The Naturalist's Miscellany. No. sa. i9. Elements ot the Philosophy of the Human Mind, byDugaldStewart. 2 Vols. Edinburgh, 18i4. Vol. I. 8?. Vol. II. 40. Philosophical Essays, by Dugald Stewart. Edinburgh, i8xo. 4a Biographical Memoirs of Dr. Adam Smith, Dr. William Robertson, and Dr. Thomas Reid, by Dugald Stewart. Edinburgh,i8i.. 4' Notitia Collectionis insignis Vennium intestinalium ab Administratione R eg. Cxes. Musei His. Nat. Viennensis. Vienna, 1811. 4 3 copies. An Electrical Pile, made by Professor Zamboni at Verona. Feb. 2. The Speech of Dr. D. Antonio Joseph Ruizi de Padron, relative to the Inquisition. J Bread and Bulls, an Apologetical Oration on the flourishing State of Spain in the Reign > of King Charles the IV. by Don Gaspar de ! Jovellanos. Mediterranean, I813. 4?J Considerations on the Protection required by British Agriculture, and on the Influence of the Price of Corn on exportable Productions, by William Jacob, F. R. S. London, 1814. 8? The Zoological Miscellany. No. 13. 3M 2DONiORS. The Committee of the Society for preventing Accidents in Coal Mines. Dr. Thomson. Mr. A. Tilloch. Mr. Griffiths. trhe Editor. Dr. W. E-. Leach. Rev. Daniel Lysons and Samuel Lysons, Esq. The Count Laplace. M. Andre Thouin. Dr. Giov. Giannini. M. A.Jenin de Montegre. G. A. Mareschal. Mr. Griffiths. Mr. A. Tilloch. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Editor. Dr. W. E. Leach. Dugald Stewart, Esq. The Society of Natural History at Vienna. James Alexis Doxat, Esq. Edward Hawke Locker, Esq. William Jacob, Esq. Dr. W. E. Leach, I 452 a18I5. P RESNTS., Feb. 2. Annals of Philosophy. No. z6. The Philosophical Magazine for January. The Motnthly Review for January, and Appendix to Vol. 75. The European Magazine for January. 9. Recherches experimentales et mathematiques sur les Mouvemens des Molecules de la Lumiere autour de leur Centre de Gravite, par M. Biot. Paris, 8I4. 4 Astronomisches Jahrbuch fur das Jahr 18 17. Berlin, i8i+. 80 i6. Religious Establishment, a Sermon preached in the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, York, by the Rev. Franlcis Wrangham, A. M. York, 184+. 40 Five Charts of the Survey going on in the China Sea. Persien und Chili als Pole des Physischen Erdbreite und Leitpunkte zur Kunntniss der Erde. Nurnberg, 1813. 80' Das Licht vomn Orient. Nurnberg, iSo8. 80 Fragmente eines Versuchs uiber Dynamische Spracherzeugung nach Verleichungen der Persischen Indischen und Teutschen Sprachen und Mythen. Nurnberg, 18I3. 8o Ueber die morgernlandischen. Handschriften der K6niglichen Hof und Central Bibliothek in Milnchen. Miinchen, i8I4. 80 De Persidis Lingua et Genio. Norimburgxe, I809. Ab Othmar Frank. 80 Precis des Decouvertes Somiologiques de C. S. Rafinesque-Schmaltz. Palermo, 18I2. 1 20 Denkschriften der Kbniglichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu MUnchen fur das Jahr. 1813. Munich, 1814. 40 Memoires de l'Acadermie Iemperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Tome IV. St. Petersburg, 1814. 4a0 Mar. 2. Annals of Philosophy. No. 27. Philosophical Magazine for February. The European Magazine for Febrvary. The Zoolo'gical Miscellany. No. ix. April 6. A Geological Essay on the imperfect Evidence in support of a Theory of the Earth, deducible either from its general Structure, or from the Changes produced on its Surface by the Opera-, tion of existing Causes, by J. Kidd, M. D. Oxford, 1815 Part of the Introductory Lecture for the year i 8i S,exhibiting someof Mr. Hunter's Opinions respecting Diseases, delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons, London, by John Abernethy. London, 1815. 80D~ONORS. Dr. Thonias ThomsQn. Mr. Alexander Tilloc. Mr. Griffiths. The Editor. M. Biot. Prof. E. Bode. Rev. F. Wrangham. The Court of -Directors of the East India Company. Mr. Othmar Frank. M. C.S. RafinesqueSchmaltz. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Munich. The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Editor. Dr. W. E. Leach. Dr. J. Kidd. John Abernethy, Esq. L 453 1I8si. PRESENTS. April 6. Annals of Philosophy. No. 28. Philosophical Magazine for March. Monthly Review for March. European Magazine for March. The Zoological Miscellany. No 1S. . Mathematical Tables by the Rev. Mr. Allayne Barker. London. i8i1.-Z? May 4. Histoire critiqne de l'Etablissement des ColoniesGrecques, par M. Raoul Rochette. Pari's, I815. 4 Vols. 80 A Treatise Explanatory of the Principles cohi. stituting the Practice and Theory of the Violoncello, by John Macdonald, Esq. Lon. don, i8ii. fol. An Appendix to ditto. London, i 81S. fol. Travels in the lonian Isles, Albania, Thessaly, Macetdonia, &c. by Henry Holland, M. D. London, i 8t 40 The Zoological Miscellany, No. I6. The Monthly Review for April. Annals of Philosophy, No. 29, The Philosophical Magazine for April. The European Magazine for April. i i. Journal des Mines, No. 215, and 2zi6* Recherches experimentales anatomiques, thymiques,&c. sur la Physique des Animaux Manmiferes hyberrnans, par M. 1. A Saissy, Paris, 1808. 25. A Common Place Book, formerly belonging to Henry OldenbLirg, Esq. Secretary to the Royal Society, at the time of its first institution, MS. 4o -Archaeologiae Americanae Telluris Collectanea et Spe imina, part ist, Philadelphia, 1814, 8? A Mein oir concerning the fascinating Faculty, which has been ascribed to various Species of Serpents, by Professor Barton, Philadelphia, 1814 40 Considerations generales sur les Inte'grales des Equations aux Differentielles partielles, par M, A. M. Aminpere. 40 De la FievreJaune en general et particulierement de celle qui reggnoit a la Martinique en 1803-4, parle Dr. A. m. 3r. Savaresy, Naples, I809. 80 Journal des Mines, No. 207-213. Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. :2. Loindorn. 80 A Fragment of an Ode of Sappho from Longinus; also an Ode of Sappho from Dionysius Halicarn. edited by the Hon. Francis Henry Egerton. Paris. March, i81i.1) 0 NO0 K-8. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Mr.~ Griffith's. The Editor. Dr. W. E. Leach. Rev. Mr. Barker. M. Raoul Rochette. John Macdonald, Esq. Dr. Holland. Dr. Leach. Mr. Gfriffilit'. Dr. Thomson. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Editor. Conseil des Milles de France. M. Saissy. The Earl of M&orton. Professor Barton. M. A. M. Ampere. Dr. Savaresy. Conseil des Mines de France. Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knows ledge. Hon. Francis Henry Egerton. C7454 'x81S. PR ESENTS. May 25. A Practical Treatise on Gas Light, by Frederic Accum. London, s 8 I S. 8? Jane I. The Hunterian Oration delivered in the Theatre of the Royal College of Surgeons, by Sir William Blizard, London, 1 8 5. 4. Dissertatio Medica Inauguralis de Liene, Auct. A. Sayer, Lug. Bat. 81 5. 4' Philosophical Magazine for May. Annals of Philosophy, No. 30. Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Vol. 76. Zoological Miscellany, No. t7. The European Magazine for May. A List of the MeMbers of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Penzance, vgiS. 4P $. Commentationes Societatis Regiac Scientiarum Gottingensis Recentiores. Vol. II. Gottingm, 1813. 4 L'Egypte sous les Pharaons, ou Recherches sur la Geographie, la Religion, la Langue, les Ecritures, et l'Histoire de lEgypte avant l'Invasion de Cambyse, par M. Champollion le Jeune. Paris, 18I4. 2 Vols. 8vo. 15. Materia MedicaofHindoostan., and Artisan's and Agriculturist's Nomenclature. Madras, 1 8I 3. 40 Memoirs ofthe Caledonian Horticultural Society, Vol. I. Edinburgh, I8i4. 8? I5. An Appendix to a Philosophical Treatise on the Hereditary Peculiarities of the Human Race, by Joseph Adams, M. D. London, 18Ig. 80Mr. Accum. Sir William Blizard" Rev. Robert Nixon. Mr. Alex. Tilloch. Dr. Thos. Thomson. Mr. Griffiths. Dr. W. E. Leach. The Editor. Dr. Paris. The Royal Academy of" Sciences at Gottingen. M. Champollion. Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie. The Caledonian Horti. cultural Society. Dr. Joseph Adams. I ND EX TO T HI PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1815. A fiage Adid, on the nature and combinations of a newly discovered vegetable one ' with observations on the malic acid, and sug' s tio5 on ttie state in which acids may have previ. ouslv existed in vegetables, a231 nmalic ohservations on it, ! 248 oxyiodica term proposed to be given to that which the compound of iodine and oxygene forms with water, 212 prussic, analysis of it, 223 sorhic, a term applied to a new one obtained from the bermies of the Sorbus Aucuparia, 43 Acids, on their action on tihe salts usually called hyperoxymuriates, and on thegases produced from them, 214 farther analytical experiments relative to the constitution of the prussic, of the ferruretted chyazic, and of the sulphuretted chyazic; and to that of their salts; together with an application of the atomic theory to the analyses of those bodies, -20 suggestions concerning the state in which they, may previously have existed in vegetables, 252 Ancients, on the colours used by them in painting, 97 Aphrodita aculeata, its respiratory organs described, 25 8 iApoplexy, the excitability of the muscles of voluntary motion not imrpaired in that disease, 8 1 Atmosphere, on its dispersive power, and its effect on astronomical observations, 375 INDFX. rmagee B BABBAGE, C., Esq. An essay towards the calculus of functions, 33t3 Barypa, an easy method of procuring it pure, by means of chlorionic acid, 2 11I BREWSTER, DAVID, LL D., additional observations on the optical properties and structure of heated glass and unannealed glass drops, .1 Experiments on the depolarisation of liiglt as exhibited by various mineral, animal, and vegetalLe bodies, with a reference of the phenomena to the general principles of pobarisation, _ _ On the effects of simple pressure in producing tlhat species of crystallization which forms two oppositely polarsed irrages, and exhibits the complementary colours by polarised liaht, 60 On the laws which regulate the polarisation of light by reflection fron transparent bodies, 125 On the multiplication of itnages and the colours which accompany them, in some specimens of calcareous spar, -270 Bridlington, on an ebbing and flowing stream -discovered by boring; in the harbour of that place, 54 C Calcareous star, on the cause of the multi-plication of theimages in it, 278 on the cause of the colours with which the images are affected in it, -2 Catp, experiments on themp, 91 CHAP TAL, M. His paper published in the 70th, Volume of " Annales de Chimie," p. 2, referred, to, 99115 CHILDREN, JOHN GEORGC, EsqF An account of some 'experiments with a large voltaic battery, 363 C(LIFT, MR. WILLIAM, Experiments to ascertain the influence of the spinal marrow on the actiQno of the heart in fishes, _ 91 Colours, complementary, description of new instruments. for. exhibiting them, 2 7 black and brown, on those used by the Ancients' in painting, 16 I N D EX page Colours, blue, on those used by the Ancients, g green, on those used by ditto, _ log * -Jpurple, on those used by ditto, 112 red, on those used by ditto, 101 white, on those used by ditto, 118 ----yellow, on those used by ditto, _ 104 .on the manner 'in which the Ancients applied them, 118 -on some phenomena of them exhibited by thin plates, 161 Current, some observations on that which often prevails to the westward of the Scilly islands, 182 D DAVY, SIR HUMPHRY. Some experiments and observations on the colours usedin painting by the Ancients, s 97 SMne experiments on a solid compound of iodine and oxygene, and on its chemical agencies, 203 -On the action of acids on the salts usually called hyperoxywuwriates, and on the gases produced from them, 214 DONOVAN,' M., Esq. On the nature and combinations of a newly discovered acid; with observations on the malic acid, and suggestions on the state in which acids may have previously existed in vegetables, 231 E Equations, functional, on those of the second and higher orders, _ 409 F Fishes, experiments to ascertain the influence of the spinal marrow on the action of the heart in them, 91 Functions, an essay towards the calculus of them, _ 389 arbitrary, on the number of them introduced into the complete solution of a functional equation, 408 G Georgian planet, observations of its satellites, accompanied by a theoretical determinations of their situation, whereby their identity may be ascertained, 304 MDccoxV. $ N INDEX. ])age Glass, heated, and unannealed glass drops, on their optical properties and structure, _ ~-_ annealed flint, its specific gravity measured, S Glass drop, unannealedflint, its specific gravity ascertained, Glass drops, unannealed, the best method of obtaining then-i entire, pointed out, 6 H HASTINGS, MR. Effect Of his experiment of immersing the hind legs of a frog in tincture of Opium, 75 Heart, experiments made with a view to ascertain the principle on which its action depends, and the relation which subsists between that organ and the nervous system, 65 _its action may be influenced by agents applied to any considerable portion of the brain or spinal marrow, 78 its power independent of the brain and spinal marrow, 7 8 -retains its power after the brain and spinal marrow are removed, 84 -~ is influenced by every part of the nervous systemo, 436 HERSCHEL, WILLIAM, LL.D. A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian planet, including a passage through the node of their orbits; with an introductory account of the telescopic apparatus that h.as been used on this occasion; and a final exposition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations, 293 HOME, SIR EVERARD, BART. On the structuire of the organs of respiration in animals which appear to hold an intermediate place between those of the class pisces and the class vermes, and in two genera of the last mentioned class, 256 On the mode of generation of the lamprey and myxine, 26.5 IIceland spar, on the phenomena exhibited by particular specimens of it, 271 Jellies, animal, effiects of' pressure on them, 61 Images, on their multiplication, and the colours which accompany themn, in somn specienlls of calcareous spar, 270 Involution and evolution of numbers, description of a new instrument -for performing them mechanically,IL 9 INDEX. page Iodine and oxygene, some experiments; on a solid compound of them, and on its chemical agencies, 203 K KNOX, JOH N, Esq. On some phenomena of colours exhibited by thin plates, 161 L Lamfprey, its organs of respiration described, 257 Lamrprey and myxine, on their inode of generation, 265 LEE, MR. STEPHEN, on the dispersive power of the atmosphere, and its effect on astronomical observations, 375 Leech, common, its respiratory organs described, 259 LE GALLOUS, M. remarks on some of his experiments con. taimed in a treatise entitled, " Experiences sur Ia principe de la Vie, &c." 87 Light, experiments on its depplarrisation as exhibited by various mineral, animal, and vegetable bodies, with a retference of the phenomena to the general principles of polarisation, 29 a list of substances. chiefly of animal and vegetable origin, which have no effect in depolarisiug it, 43 theory of its depolarisation, 44 --~ on the laws which regulate its polarisation by reflection from transparent bodies, 125 on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from the first surfaces of transparent bodies,. 130 on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from thesecond surfaces of transparent bodies, 134 on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from the separating surfaces of different media, d 139 on the law of its polarisation. by successive reflections,, 142 on the nature and origin of that, apparently unpolarised, which exists at the maximum polrisin, ang;e, 152 h xssa h 4. O 5 MILNE, Mi. his hypothesis respecting the ebbino and flows ing stream discovered by boring in the harbour of Bridlington, 57 Mu~ral circle,. a table of observations made with it, compared with thoseof Dr. BRADLEY in the year 1756, d 387 3N2 INDEX. Pagee Myxine, its respiratory organs described, 258 N Kfervous and sangu~ferous systems, some additional experiments and observations on the relation which subsists between them, -424 0 Opium, its effect when applied to the brain, 74 Oxyiodine, a term proposed to be given to the new solid corn pound of iodine and oxygene, 212 P PHILIP, A. P. WILSON, M. D. Experiments made with a view to ascertain the principle on which the action of the heart depends, and the relation which subsists between that organ and the nervous system, 65 -Some additional experiments and observations on the relation which subsists between the nervous and sanguiferous systems, 424 ,Plane, interrupting, its position and character in calcareous spar 275 POND, JOHN, EsQ. Determination. of the North Polar Distances and proper motion of thirty fixed Stars, la S84 PORRETT, ROBERT, EsQ. Farther analytical experiments relative to the Zonstitution of the prussic, of the ferruretted chyazic, and of the sulphuretted chyazic acids; and to that of their salts ; together with the application of the atomic theory to the analyses of those bodies, 220 Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from Novenmber IS14 to June 1815, 448 Pressure, simrpfle. (on its effects in producing that species of crystallizatiorn Which florms two oppositely polarised images, and exhibits the complementary colours by polarised light, 60 Prussiate of mercury, analysis of it, -221 R Rabbits and frogs, series of experiments on them to ascertain the principle on which the action of the heart depends, 68 INDEX. RENNELL, JAMES, ESQ. Some farther observations on the Page current that often prevails to the westward of the Scilly Islands, 4 182 Respiration, organs of, on their structure in animals which appear to hold an intermediate place between those of the class pisces and the class vermes, and in two genera of the last mentioned class, 256 RoGET, PETER M., M. D. Description of a new instrument for performing mechanically the involution and evolution of numbers, 9 S Satellites, the method of identifying them, 351 their periodical revolutions determined, 348 consideration of the principles by which their periodical revolution may be obtained from the observed angles of position, 345 a series of observations of those of the Georgian planet, including a passage through the node of their orbit; with an introductory account of the telescopic apparatus that has been used on this occasion; and a final exposition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations, 93 Scilfr Islands, some farther observations on the current that often prevails to the westward of them, 182 Sliding rule, a proposition pointed out that leads directly to the solution of every case to which that instrument can be applied, 13 Spinal marrow, experiments to ascertain its influence on the action of the heart in fishes, % I 91 S4irii of wine, its effects when applied to the spinal marrow and brain, 74 its effect upon the action of the heart, when applied to the surface, or inserted into the substance of the br.in), 427 Stars, fixed, determination of the Nor th Polar Distances, and proper nmotion, of thirty of them, 384 STORER, JOHN, M. 1). On an ebbing and flowing stream discovered by boring in the harbour of Bridlingto, 54 INDEX. Page T 2Table, showing the angles at which a pencil of light is polarised by any number of reflections at the same angle, 14$ Table, containing the calculated and observed polarising angles for various bodies, e 128 Tobacco, its effect when applied to the brain, 74 V Voltaic battery, an account or some experiments with one of large dimensions, 363 From the Press of W. BUL AER & Co. Cleveland-row, St. James's, Loaidon. 