Observations Made by a Curious and Learned Person, sailing from England, to the Caribe-Islands. These Observations shall be set down in the Authors own words, as they were obtained from him by Sir R. Moray; viz. ITook notice at Deal, whence I set sail for Jamaica, of the great difference in the rusting of Iron, in such houses, as front the Sea, in comparison of that effect in the Street immediately placed behind C c c 3 that (494) that other, in which I made this observation. They told me that it rusted more at High-floods, than at Neap-tides; the height of the Beach hindring the Saline exhalations. This remark put me in mind of the vanity of the Argument of M. Ligons and others, viz. That the Air of the West-Indies was hot and moist, because of the Rusting of Iron; whereas it indeed arises from some other principle in the Air; for at the point of Cagua, wher it scarce raineth 40 showers in a year, Iron rusts as much or more than any where; yet are there other parts of the Island, in which of 9 months not one passes without great Rains: besides, in Jamaica it rusts least in rainy Weather. The Steams of the Sea are found of such a nature, that our sweetmeats rotted; Sugar of Roses, and other Lozenges grew moist; notwithstanding that there was no reason to attribute it to any rainy weather. And those Pies and Gammons of Bacon, which had kept well before, after they had been once exposed to the open Air, decayed more in a day or two, than in six weeks before. On the point Cagua, the Iron Guns at the Fort were so corroded, that some were near become useless, being perforated almost like Hony-Combs: And I could at any time with 2 or 3 stroaks of a Hammer break off some pounds of Rusty Iron, which served for prepared Steel, and in Salves. But the Guns which lay in the Salt-water, were not much endamaged by Rust; as we found, upon taking up of some. Many things receive damage by the Air: Not only Iron rusts, but even Linnen rots, and Silks once exposed to the Air do rot without losing their colour. If a Lancet be once exposed to the air it will rust, though you presently put it up again; but if it be never exposed to the Air, it will hardly rust. At Deal a certain Ale-seller will warrant, that the Ale, as he orders it, shall be carried good to the West or East-Indies. His way to prepare it is this, as he told me himself, he twice mashes it with Fresh-Malt, and twice boils it well; yet all this kept it not from sowring; as I observ'd during my stay there. We bought of it to carry to Jamaica, and then he directed us thus. To every Rundlet of 5 Gallons, after it is placed in the ship, not to be stirred any more, put in two new laid Eggs whole, and let them lic in it; he said that in a fortnight or little more, the whole Egg-shells would be dissolved, and the Eggs become like Wind. Eggs, inclosed only in a thin skin (495) skin; after this, the whole White would be prey'd on, but the Yolk would not be touch'd or corrupted. By this means we did preserve the Ale to Jamaica, and it was much better, than at Deal. I was told since by some others that the Experiment is usual with them, to keep Ale in England a quarter of a year: And if Eggs be thus put into March-beer, they preserve it from growing ever harsh. They must be put in, after the Liquor has done working. Concerning the Thames-water, it is not only observable, that in eight months time it acquires a Spirituous quality, so as to burn like Spirit of Wine; and some East-India ships, I am informed, have run the hazard of firing by holding a Candle near the Bung. hole at the first opening of the Cask;) but also that the stinking of it is no corruption, nor perhaps unwholesome; for we drank it all the way, so as to hold our Noses, yet had no sickness, but we had proportion of Brandy each week, which perhaps might correct it. If you take off the Bung from any Cask that stinks, and let the Air come to it, it will in 24 hours become sweet again. And if you take a Broomstick, and stir it about well, it will become sweet in 4 or 5 hours casting a black Lee to the bottom, which remixes with it, and so occasions a third or fourth fermentation, and stench; after which it stinks no more. But, though Thames-water upon stench do not putrifie, yet other Waters (as far as hath been hitherto observed) do become irrecoverable upon stinking, and dangerous to drink. I observ'd at Sea, that though Glauber say, the water, as it grows Salter, becomes Greener, yet that is false. For, after we were out of the Narrow, the Sea grew darkish, and after perfect Azure, yet was it much more Salt, the farther we went: as I tried by a Waterpoise of Glass, with Quick-silver at the one end, it rose about half an inch above the Sea-water in the Downs; and at 24 degrees more, 2 inches. But after that, I never observed any difference unto Jamaica, the Sea being probably so impregnated with Salt, as not to imbibe more; which crosses another observation, that the nearer the Tropiques and the Line, the Salter the Sea. As to the Colour of the Sea, I conceive there is as great variety in it and its steams, as in Grounds at Land; which may occasion the sickness in some places more than in others: For the Sea smells differently in the Narrow and Main. And as to colour, it is of a Sea-green (and more sickly) in the Downs, than at Torbay, and on Plymouth coast more, than past the Lands-end; and in the Bay of Biscay, than in (496) in the Long-reach. Something perhaps may be imputed to the difference of the waves, which are short, and make a Copling Sea in the Bay of Biscay (yet we came not within 80 Leagues of Cape Finis Terrae:) in the Long-reach it is a long rolling wave, but never breaks. About Florida, Virginia, and New-England it is a great rolling wave, but breaks. And as the Sea coloureth from green to darkish, and so to blue; so in our return it colour'd from blue to dark, and so to green. When we were in the Latitude of Barbadoes, and had sailed so for two daies, and apprehended our selves to be within 70 or 80 Leagues, I observed the Sea was black and thick, not transparently blue, as before, and the foam against the Ship-sides was turbid, and of another consistence, than before. I had never seen the like before, yet was I willing to think the Sun not high enough, to give the water its due colour. I attended the Suns progress, but behold, it turn'd Green; whereupon I asked the Master, who told me, we were within 60 leagues of Barbadoes, and that the Sea was there soundable, whereas before it was not so. But at Barbadoes in the anchoring places, it was Blue; and as we row'd ashore, in the shallow it was Whitish: And so at Jamaica near the shore it is transparently White, but within three yards more, transparently Blue. As to the Burning of the Sea, I could never observe so great a Light, as to perceive Fishes in the Sea of the Stern, though I frequently looked, as well as M. Ligon; yet was the light great, and at sometimes more than other. I suppose several subject Earths, Currents, and Winds do vary it. I observ'd, it burned more at Deal the night before we set sail, than ever in the Voyage: all the water ran off our Oars, almost like liquid fire; the wind was then South-East, and the Sea-men told me, that at East and South-winds it burned most. And it did never burn so much during our stay at Deal, as then, the wind having been alwaies Westerly. But in the Harbour of Jamaica I observ'd, that it did not burn equally there. As you pass the Current (which thwarts the middle of the Harbour with a motion, different from the water on both sides) the water scarce seems white at the stroak of an Oar. I shall not trouble you with an account, how two contrary Winds poise each other, and make a Calm in the midst, ships at a distance sailing with contrary gales at the same time. It is observable, that in the Indies such places, as have any high Mountains, have also every night a Wind, that blows from the Land, Maugre (497) Maugre the Levantine Wind, which blows at Sea (but with a slacker gale all night; which seems to shew it depends not only on the motion of the Earth, but Sun.) Whence this Wind should come, may be considered; there is none at Barbadoes or Saona, but at all the other Islands. And in Jamaica every night it blows off the Island every way at once, so that no ship can any where come in by night, nor go out but early in the morning, before the Sea-brife come in. I have often thought on it and could imagine no other reason, but that those Exhalations, which the Sun hath raised in the day, make haste (after his strength no longer supports them) to those Mountains by a motion of Similar Attraction, *and there gather in Clouds, and break thence by their own force and weight,and occasion a wind every way. For, as the Sun declines,the Clouds gather, and shape according to the Mountains, so that old Seamen will tell you each Island in the afternoon towards Evening by the shape of the Cloud over it. And this Attraction appears further, not only from the Rain that gathers on the Tree in the Island of Ferro, spoken of by J. Hawkins in his Observations, and Is. Vessius upon pomponius Mela, as also Magnenus de Manna; but also from the Rains in the Indies, there being certain Trees which attract the Rain, though Observations have not been made of the kinds;so as that if you destroy the woods, you abate or destroy the Rains. So Barbadoes hath not now half the Rains, it had, when more wooded. In Jamaica likewise at Guanaboa they have diminisht the Rains as they extended their Plantations. But (to return to Jamaica) that this night-wind depends much upon the Mountain, appears by this, that its force extends to an equal distance from the Mountain, so that at Portmorant, which is the Easter-most part of the Island, there is little of Land-brise, because the Mountain is remote from thence, and the brise spends its force along the land thither. I shall further illustrate this kind of Attraction. In the harbor of Jamaica there grow many Rocks,shap'd like Bucks and Stags horns: there grow also several Sea-plants, whose roots are stony. Of these stone-trees if I may term them so) some are insipid, but others perfectly Nitrous Upon those other Plants with petrisied roots there gathers a Lime-stone, which fixes not upon other Sea-fans, growing by them. It is observable also, that a Monchinel-Apple, falling into the D d d Sea * Possibly it may be more plain, to say, That those Exhalations, condensed by the cool of the night and impelled downwards, fall by their weight, and then first of all meeting with the higher parts of the Earth, must needs gather and settle about the same, in clouds. (498) Sea,and lying in the water, will contract a Lanugo of Salt-peter: which is confirmed by the Author of the History of the Antiles. To conclude this particular, the Captain of our Ship ventured to give me a reason for these winds, which I will not conceal from you, since it may put you upon an Experiment, which he said he had often made: viz. That the Sun did heat the Air, and exhale the Vapours, which after did settle on those hills, and as they grew cold, took up more room than before, and so made a wind by their pressure; as water, put hot into a Cask and closed, would, be said, as it cooled, break the Cask. It is commonly affirmed, That the Seasons of the Year betwixt the Tropicks are divided by the Rains and Fair weather, and six Months are attributed to each Season. But this observation holds not generally true: For at the Point in Jamaica searce fall (as was, on another occasion, hinted above) forty showers in a year, beginning in August to October inclusively. From the Point you may look towards Port-morant, and so along to Ligonee,six miles from the Point,and you'l scarce see, for eight or nine months, beginning from April, an afternoon in which it rains not. At the Spanish Town it rains but three Months in the Year, and then not much. And at the same time, it rains at Mevis, it rains not at the Barbadoes. And at Cignateo (otherwise called Eleutheria) in the Gulph of Bahama it rains not sometimes in two or three years, so that that Island hath been twice deserted for want of rain to plant in. At the Point of Jamaica, where-ever you dig five or six foot,water will appear, which cbbs and flows as the Tide. It is not salt but brackish, unwholsome for men, but wholsome for Hogs, At the Caymans there is no water, but what is brackish also; yet is that wholsome for men, insomuch that many are recovered there, by feeding on Tortoises, and yet drink no other water. The Bloud of Tortoises is colder than any water, I ever felt there; yet is the beating of their Heart as vigorous, as that of any Animal (as far as I have observed.) and their Arteries are as firm as any Creatures I know: Which seems to shew, It is not heat that hardens the coats of the Arteries, or gives motion to the Heart. Their Lungs lie in their belly below the Diaphragm, extending to the end of their Shell. Their Spleen is Triangular, and of a firm flesh(no Parenchyma) and floridly red. Their Liver is of a dark green, inclining to black, and Parenchymatous. In the Oesophagus are a sort of Teeth, with which they chew the grass,they eat in the Meadows,which there grow at the bottom of the Sea, All (499) All the Tortoises from the Caribes to the Bay of Mexico and Honduras, repair in Summer to the Cayman Islands, to lay their Eggs and to hatch there. They coot for fourteen daies together, then lay in one night some three hundred Eggs, with white and yolk, but no shells: then they coot again,and lay in the sand,and so thrice. Then the Male is reduced to a kind of gelly within, and blind, and is so carried home by the Female. Their fat is green, but not offensive to the stomach, though you cat it as broth, stew'd. Your Urine looks of a yellowish green, and oily, after eating it. There is no manner of Earth, but Sand, at the Point; yet I have eaten admirable Melons, Musk and Water-Melons, that have grown there. A great many trees also grow there, especially Mangranes and Prickle-pears. In other parts it is ordinary to ride through woods, that are full of very large Timber, and yet have nothing of Earth, only firm Rock, to grow in. In some ground that is full of Salt peter, your Tobacco, that grows wild, flasheth as it is smoked. The fruit of Trees there of the same kind ripen not at one time: There is a Hedge of Plum-trees of two miles long, as you go to the Spanish Town; on it I have many times remarked some Trees in Flower, others with Ripe, others with Green fruit, and others to have done bearing, at the same time. The like I have observed in other Trees. Jasmins I have seen to blow before their leaves, and also after their leaves are fallen again. The Sower-sop, a pleasant fruit there, hath a flower with three leaves; when these open, they give so great a crack, that I have more than once run from under the Tree, thinking it all to be tumbling down. There is a Bird, called a Pellican, but a kind of Cormorant, that is of taste Fishy, but if it lie buried in the ground but two hours, it will lose that taste, as I have been told for certain. I tried some Analysis of bodies by letting Ants eat them; and I found that they would eat Brown Sugar White, and at last reduce it to an Insipid powder. So they reduced a pound of Salet-oil to 2 drams of powder. At our first coming there, we sweat continually in great drops for 3 quarters of a year, and then it ceaseth: During that space I could not perceive my self or others more dry,more costive,or to make less urine, than in England. Neither does all that sweat make us faintish. If one be dry, it is a thirst generally arising from the heat of the Lungs, and affecting the Mouth, which is best cooled by a little Brandy. D d d 2 Most (500) Most Creatures drink little or nothing there, as Hogs; nay, Horses in Guanaboa never drink; nor Cows in some places of the Island for six months; Goats drink but once perhaps in a week. Parrots never drink, nor Parrokets; nor Civet-Cats but once a month. The hottest time of the day to us, is Eight in the Morning, when there is no Brise. I set a weather-glass in the window, to observe the weather, and I found it not to rise considerably at that time, but by two of the clock it rose two inches. Venice-Treacle did so dry in a Gally-pot, as to be friable; aud then it produced a Fly, called a Weavil, and a sort of white-worm. So did the Pilulae de Tribus produce a Weavil. I shall conclude with an Observation of a strange Quality of a piece of Land: There is in the midst of the Island a Plain, called Magotti Savanna, in which whensoever it rains (and the rain passes along the Island before it falls there) the rain, as it settles upon the seams of any garment, turns in half an hour to Magots; yet is that plain healthful to dwell in; and an hundred, that have seen the thing, assured me of it. Infinite might the observations be, if I had alwaies enjoyed my health, for the speculative Philosophers; almost every thing there being new, and Nature being luxuriant in her Productions in those parts: But I shall not trouble you with imperfect Memorials, &c. So far this curious observer; whose laudable Example may both quicken and direct other Travellers in the Particulars, to be taken notice of in their Voyages. 