Philosoph: Transact: ~ No. 1. A B C A No. 2. P Q R D E F E No. 5 G A B C G H D E L F G M O N No. 8. Numb: 170: No. 3. No.4. A B C D B C F G A D E H E F G K N I M O L P Q R [961] An Abstract of a Letter from Dr Sam. Threapland of Hallifax to Dr Plot of Oxford, giving an account of Stones Voided by Siege. A Carpenter, about forty years of age, of a strong habit of body, and very laborious in his calling, liveing about a mile hence, came to me about three weeks since, and made great complaint of the sad torture he had suffer'd by reason of two Stones he had voided by stool this last Christmass,there being about 14 days time between; the first was the less which is represented Numb. 12, Fig. 1.the latter is much larger,as in Numb. 12, Fig. 2, but both of them much diminisht, as to their various angles, and sharp points they had at their exit, by means of the fellows bearing them about with him in his pocket for four or five days, amongst his little Iron tools, that have relation to his trade. He perceived no alteration or disturbance in his body, till within 5 or 6 days that the first came away; then he began to complain very much of a pain in the belly,much resembleing the Colick, and of a stoppage in the Intestins, not much unlike that in a Tenesmus, having frequent provocations to go to stool, but to no purpose upon try all; he took little or no rest in all that time; his Stomack retained scarce any Meat or Drink it receiv'd; till in the conclusion one of the Stones came into the Intestinum rectum; where it lodg'd for a days time; then coming within the reach of his Finger, he drew it out by force, and presently after the dislodging of this troublesome guest, he was very well again; and so continued for a fortnight, till the other begun to move; which occasioned a pain beyond the former in proportion to its bulk; and kept him upon the rack about eight days; during which time, there was an absolute V 2 suppression [962] suppression of excrements, and when the Stone came into the Rectum, it continued near two days within the reach of his Finger, with which he could not draw it out by any means; till at length he bent a small piece of Iron into the form of a hook, with which rude instrument his Servant drew it forth with much ado, and not without Wounding the rugous coat of that part. After it was gone, he soon recovered his former condition and felt no further harm from this accident. About seven years before, the very like case had befallen him, Voyding two Stones after the same manner, and about equall bigness. An Ex