425 J XXIX. Farther researches on the magnetic phenomena produced by electricity; with some new experiments on the properties of electr~fied bodies in their relations to conducting powers and temperature. By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY, Bart. P. R. S. Read July b, 182X. I. IN my letter to Dr. WOLLASTON on the new facts discovered by M. OERSTED, which the Society has done me the honour to publish, I mentioned, that I was not able to render a bar of steel magnetic by transmitting; the electrical discharge across it through a tube filled with sulphuric acid ; and I have likewise mentioned, that the electrical discharge passed across a piece of steel through air, rendered it less magnetic than when passed through a metallic wire; and I attributed the first circumstance to the sulphuric acid being too bad a conductor to transmit a sufficient quantity of electricity for the effect ; and the second:, to th e electricity passing through air in a more diffused state than through metals. To gain some distinct knowledge on the relations of the different conductors to the magnetism produced by electricity, I instituted a series of experiments, which led to very decisive results, and confirmed my first views, IL. I found that the magnetic phoenomena were precisely the same, whether the electricity was small in quantity, and passing through good conductors of considerable magnitude; or, whether the conductors were so imperfect as to convey only 426 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY On the magnetic phenomena a small quantity of electricity; and in both cases they were neither attractive of each other, nor of iron filings, and not affected by the magnet; and the only proof of their being magnetic was their occasioning a certain small deviation of the magnetized needle. Thus, a large piece of charcoal placed in the circuit of a very powerful battery, being a very bad conductor compared with the metals, would not affect the compass needle at all, unless it had a very large contact with the metallic part of the circuit; and if a small wire was made to touch it in the circuit only in a fex points, that wire did not gain the power of attracting iron filings ; though, when it was made to touch a surface of platinum foil coiled round the end of the charcoal, a slight effect of this kind xvas produced. And in a shnimlar manner fused hydrate of potassa, one of the best of the imperfect conductors, could never be made to exert any attractive force on iron filings, nor could the smallest filaments of cotton moistened by solution of hydrate of potassa, placed in the circuit, be made to move by the magnet; nor did steel needles floating on cork on an electrized solution of this kind, placed in the voltaic circuit, gain any polarity; and the only proof of the magnetic powers of electricity passing through such a fluid,) was afforded by its effect upon the magnetized needle, when the metallic surfaces, plunged in the fluid, were of considerable extent. That the mobility of the parts of fluids did not interfere with their magnetic powers as developed by electricity, I proved, by electrifying mercury, and NEWTON'S metal fused, in small tubes. These tubes, placed in a proper voltaic circuit, attracted iron filings, and gave magnetic powers to needles nor did any agitation of the produced by electricity. 427 mercury or metal within, either in consequence of mechanical motion or heat, alter or suspend their polarity. IHl. Imperfect conducting fluids do not give polarity to steel when electricity is passed through them; but electricity passed through air produces this effect. Reasoning on this phenomenon, and on the extreme mobility of the particles of air, I concluded, as M. ARAGO had likewise done from other considerations, that the voltaic current in air would he affected by the magnet. I failed in my first trial, which I have referred to in a note to my former paper, and in other trials made since by using too weak a magnet; but I have lately had complete success ; and the experiment exhibits a very striking. phaenomenon. Mr. PEPYS having had the goodness to charge the, great battery of the London Institution, consisting of two thousand double plates of zinc and copper, with a mixture of 1 i68 parts of water, 108 parts of nitrous acid, and 25 parts of sulphutic acid, the poles were connected by charcoal, so as to make an arc, or column of electrical light, varying in length from one to four inches, according to the state of rarefaction of the atmosphere in which it was produced; and a powerful magnet being presented to this arc or column, having its pole at a very acute angle to it, the arc, or column, was attracted or repelled with a rotatory motion, or made to revolve, byplacing the poles in different Positions, according to the same law as the electrified cylinders of platinum described in my last paper, being repelled when the negative pole was on the right hand by the north pole of the magnet, and attracted by the south pole, and vice versa. It was proved by several experiments that the motion de' MDcCCXXI. 3 I 428 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the magnetic phxnomena pended entirely upon the magnetism, and not upon the elect trical inductive power of the magnet, for masses of soft iron, or of other metals, produced no effect. The electrical arc or column of flame was more easily affected by the magnet, and its motion was more rapid when it passed through dense than through rarified air ; and 'in this case, the conducting medium or chain of aeriform particles was much shorter. I tried to gain similar results with currents of common electricity sent through flame, and in vacuo. They were always affected by the magnet; but it was not possible to obtain so decided a result as with voltaic electricity, because the magnet itself became electrical by induction, and that whether it was insulated, or connected with the ground.* IV. Metals, it is well known, readily transmit large quanti.ties of electricity ; and the obvious limit to the quantity which they are capable of transmitting seems to be their fusibility, or volatilization by the heat which electricity produces in its passage through bodies. Now I had found in several experiments, that the intensity of this heat was connected with the nature of the medium by which the body was surrounded; thus a wire of platinum which was readily fused by transmitting the charge from a voltaic battery in the exhausted receiver of an air pump, acquired in air a much lower degree of temperature. Reasoning on * I made several experiments on the efects of currents of electricity simultaneously passing through air in different states of rarefaction in the same and different directions, both from the voltaic and common electrical batteries; but I could not es. tablish the fact of their magnetic attractions or repulsions with regard to each other, which probably was owing to the impossibility of bringing thenm sufficiently near. produced by electricity. 429 this circumstance, it occurred to me, that by placing wires in a medium much denser than air, such as ether, alcohol, oils, or water, I might enable them to transmit a much higher charge .of electricity than they could convey without being destroyed in air; and thus not only gain some new results as to the magnetic states of such wires, but likewise, perhaps, determine the actual limits -to the powers of different bodies to conduct electricity, and the relations of these powers. A wire of platinum of , of three inches in length, was fused in air, by being made to transmit the electricity of two batteries of ten zinc plates of four inches with double copper, strongly charged: a similar wire was placed in sulphuric ether, and the charge transmitted through it. It became surrounded by globules of gas ; but no other change took place; and in this situation it bore the discharge from twelve batteries of the same kind, exhibiting the same phbenomena. When only -about an inch of it was heated by this high power in ether, it made the ether boil, and became white hot under the globules of vapour, and then rapidly decomposed the ether, but it did not fuses When oil or water was substituted for the ether, the length of the wire remaining the same, it was partially covered with small globules of gas, but did not become red hot. On trying the magnetic powers of this wire in water, they were found to be very great, and the quantity of iron filings that it attracted, was such as to form a cylinder round it of nearly the tenth of an inch 'in diameter. To ascertain whether short lengths of fine wire, prevented from fusing by being kept cool, transmitted the whole electricity of powerful voltaic batteries, I made a second indepen. 430 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY On the magnetic phcnomnena dent circuit from the ends of the battery with silver wires in, water, so that the chemical decomposition of the water indicated a residuum of electricity in the battery. Operating in this way, I found that an inch of wire of platinum of 22. kept cool by water, left a great residual charge of electricity in a combination of twelve batteries of the same kind as those above mentioned; and after making several trials, I found that it was barely adequate to discharge six batteries. V. Having determined that there was a limit to the quantity of electricity which wires were capable of transmitting, it became easy to institute experiments on the different conducting powers of different metallic substances, and on the relation of this power to the temperature, mass, surface, or length of the conducting body, and to the conditions of electro-magnetic action. These experiments were made as nearly as possible under the same circumstances, the same connecting copper wires being used in all cases, their diameter being more than onetenth of an inch, and the contact being always preserved perfect; and parts of the same solutions of acid and water were employed in the different batteries, and the same silver wires and broken circuit with water were employed in the different trials; and when no globules of gas were observed upon the negative silver wire of the second circuit, it was concluded that the metallic conducting chain, or the primary circuit, was adequate to the discharge of the combination. To describe more minutely all the precautions observed, would be tedious to those persons who are accustomed to experiments with the voltaic apparatus, and unintelligible to others ; and after all, produced by electricity. 4-31 in researches of this nature, it is impossible to gain more than approximations to true results; for the gas disengaged upon the plates, the different distances of the connecting plates, and the slight difference of time in making the connections, all, interfere with their perfect accuracy. The most remarkable general result that I obtained by these researches, and which I shall mention first, as it influences all the others, was, that the conducting power of metallic bodies varied with the temperature, and was lower in some inverse ratio as the temperature was higher. Thus a wire of platinum of 2 and three inches in length, when kept cool by oil, discharged the electricity of two batteries, or of twenty double plates; but when suffered to be heated by exposure in the air, it barely discharged one battery. Whether the heat was occasioned by the electricity, or applied to it from some other source, the effect was the same. Thus a wire of platinum, of such length and diameter as to discharge a combination without being considerably heated; when the flame of a spirit lamp was applied to it so as to make a part of it red hot, lost its power of discharging the whole electricity of the battery, as was shown by the disengagement of abundance of gas in the secondary circuit; which disengagement ceased as soon as the source of heat was with. drawn. There are several modes of exhibiting this fact, so as to produce effects which, till they are witnessed, must almost appear impossible. Thus, let a fine wire of platinum of four or five inches in length be placed in a voltaic circuit, so that the electricity passing through it may heat the whole of it to 43 Sir HuMPHRY DAVY on the magnetic pharnomena redness, and let the flame of a spirit lamp be applied to any part of it, so as to heat that part to whiteness, the rest of the wire will instantly become cooled below the point of visible ignition. For the converse of the experiment, let a piece of ice or a stream of cold air be applied to a part of the wire ; the other parts will immediately become much hotter; and from a red, will rise to a white heat. The quantity of electricity that can pass through that part of the wire submitted to the changes of temperature, is so much smaller when it is hot than wvhen it is cold, that the absolute temperature of the whole wire is diminished by heating a part of it, and, vice versa, increased by cooling a part of it. In comparing the conducting powers of different metals, I found much greater differences than I had expected. Thus six inches of silver wire of 72 2 discharged the whole of the electricity of sixty-five pair of plates of zinc and double copper made active by a mixture of about one part of nitric acid of commerce, and fifteen parts of water. Six inches of copper wire of the same diameter discharrged the electricity of fiftysix pairs of the same combination, six inches of tin of the same diameter carried off that of twelve only, the same quantity of wire of platinum that of eleven, and of iron that of nine. Six inches of wire of lead of 1-6 seemed equal in their conducting powers to. te same length of copper wire of 2 All the wires were kept as cool as possible by immersion in a basin of water.` I made a number of experiments of the same kind, but the results were never precisely alike, though they sometimes * Water is so bad a conductor, that in experiments of this kind its effects may be neglected altogether; and these effects were equal in all the experiments. produced by electricity. 433 approached very near each other. When the batteries were highly charged, so that the intensity of the electricity was higher, the differences were less between the best and worst conductors, and they were greater when the charge was extremely feeble. Thus, with a fresh charge of about i part of nitric acid, and 9 parts of water, wires of ' of silver and platinum a inches long, discharged respectively the electricity of 3o, and 7 double plates. Finding that when different portions of the same 'wire plunged in a non-conducting fluid were connected with different parts of the same battery equally charged, their conducting powers appeared in the inverse ratio of their lengths; so, when 6 inches of wire of platinum of -22 discharged the electricity of so double plates, 3 inches discharged that of 20, 11 inch that of ~o, and 1 inch that of 6o; it occurred to me that the conducting powers of the different metals inight be more easily compared in this way, as it would be possible to make the contacts in less time than when the batteries were changed, and consequently with less variation 'in the charge. Operating in this way, I ascertained that in discharging the electricity of 6o pairs of plates, i inch of platinum was equal to about 6 inches of silver, to 5 inches of copper, to 4 of gold, to 3.8 of lead, to about Jof palladium, and I< of iron, all the metals being in a cooling fluid medium. I found, as might have been expected, that the conducting power of a wire for electricity in batteries of the size and numnber of plates just described, was nearly directly as the mass; thus, when a certain length of wire of platinum discharged X battery,* the same length of wire of six times the weight discharged 6 batteries ; and the effect was exactly the same, pro. * A foot of this wire weighed I. X 3 grains., a foot of the other 6.7 grains. Sir HUMPHRY DAVY on the magnetic phcnomena vided the wires were kept cool, whether the mass was a single wire, or composed of 6 of the smaller wires in contact with each other. This result alone showed, that surface had no relation to conducting power, at least for electricity of this kind, and it was more distinctly proved by a direct experiment; equal lengths and equal weights of wire of platinum, one round, and one flattened by being passed transversely through rollers so as to have six or seven times the surface, were compared as to conducting powers: the flattened wire was the best conductor in air from its greater cooling powers, but in water no difference could be perceived between them. VI. I tried to make a comparison between the conducting powers of fluid menstrUa and charcoal and those of metals. Six inches of platinum foil, an inch and X broad, were placed in a vessel which could be filled with any saline solution; and a similar piece of platinum placed opposite at an inch distance; the whole was then made part of a voltaic circuit, which had likewise another termination by silver wires in water; and solutioIl of salts added, till gas ceased to be liberated from the negative silver wire. In several trials of thiskind it was found that the whole of the surface of six inches, even with the strongest solutions of common salt, was insufficient to carry off the electricity even of two pair of plates; and a strong solution of potassa carried off the electricity of three pair of plates only; whereas an' inch of wire of platinum of 2 (as has been stated) carried off all the electricity of 6o pair of plates. The gas liberated upon the surface of the metals when they are placed in fluids, renders it impossible to gain accurate results; but the conducting power of the best fluid conductors, it seems probable produced by electricity. 45 from these experiments must be some hundreds of thousand times less than those of the worst metallic conductors. A piece of well-burnt compact box-wood charcoal was placed in the circuit, being Jof an inch wide by 1thick and connected with large surfaces of platinum. It was found that i inch and -1carried off the same quantity of electricity as 6 inches of wire of platinum of 2 VII. I made some experiments with the hope of ascertaining the exact change of ratio of the conducting powers dependent upon the change of the intensity and quantity of electricity ; but I did not succeed in gaining any other than the general result, that the higher the intensity of the electricity, the less difficulty it had in passing through bad conductors; and several remarkable phenomena depend upon this circusmstance. Thus, in a battery where the quantity of the electricity is very great and the intensity very low, such as one composed of plates of zinc and copper, so arranged as to act only as single plates of from 20 to So feet of surface each, and charged by a weak mixture of acid and water. Charcoal made to touch only in a few points, is almost as much an insulating body as water, and cannot be ignited, nor can wires of platinum be heated when their diameter is less than 8-0 of an inch, and their length three or four feet; and a foot of, platinum wire of 3-0 is scarcely heated by such a battery, whilst the same length of silver wire of the same diameter is made red hot; and the samne lengths of thicker wires of platinum or iron are intensely heated. The heat produced where electricity of considerable inten.. MDcccxxI. 3 K 436 Sir HtuPHRY DAVY on the magnetic phenomena sity is passed through conductors, must always interfere with the exact knowledge of the changes of their conducting powers, as is proved by the following experiment. A battery of 2o pair of plates of zinc, and copper plates lo inches by 6, was very highly charged with a mixture of nitric acid and water, so as to -exhibit a considerable intensity of electrical action, and the relative conducting powers of silver and platinum in air and water ascertained by means of it. In air, 6 inches of wire of platinum of Ai, discharged only 4 double plates, whilst 6 inches of silver wire of the same diameter, discharged the whole combination: the platinum was strongly ignited in this experiment, whilst the silver was scarcely warm to the touch. On cooling the platinum wire by placing it in water, it was found to discharge 1o double plates. When the intensity of the electricity is very high) however, even the cooling powers of fluid media are of little avail: thus I found that fine wire of platinum was fused by the discharge of a common electrical battery under water ; so that the conducting power must always be diminished by the heat generated, in a greater proportion as the intensity of the electricity is higher. It might at first view be supposed, that when a conductor placed in the circuit left a residuum of electricity in any battery, increase of the power of the battery, or of its surface, would not enable it to carry through any additional quantity. This, however, is far from being the case. When saline solutions were placed in the circuit of a battery of 2o plates, though they discharged a very small quantity only of the electricity, when the troughs were only 4 full, yet their chemical decomposition exhibited the fact of a much produced by electricity. 437 larger quantity passing through them,when the cells were filled with fluid. And a similar circumstance occurred with respect to a wire of platinum, of such a length as to leave a considerable residuum in a battery when only half its surface was used; yet when the whole surface was employed, -it became much hotter, and nevertheless left a still more considerable residuum. VIII. I found long ago, that in increasing the number of alternations of similar plates, the quantity of electricity seemed to increase as the number, at least as far as it could be judged of by the effects of heat upon wires; but only within certain limits, beyond which the number appeared to diminish, rather than increase the quantity. -Thus the two thousand double plates of the London Institution, when arranged as one bat. tery, would not ignite so much wire as a single battery of ten plates with double copper. It is not easy to explain this result, Does the intensity mark the rapidity of the motion of the electricity ? or, merely its diminished attraction for -the matter on which it acts? and does this attraction become less in proportion as the circuit, through which it passes, or in which it is generated, contains a greater number of alternations of bad conductors ? Mr. CHILDREN, in his account of the experiments made with his battery of large plates, has ingeniously referred the heat produced by the passage of electricity through conductors, to the resistance it meets with, and has supposed, what proves to be the fact, that the heat is in some inverse ratio to the conducting power. The greatest heat however is pro4,38 Sir HJUMPHRY DAVY on the magnetic phenomena duced in air, where there is reason to suppose the least res-is. tance; and as the presence of heat renders bodies worse conductors, another view may be taken, namely, that the excitation of heat occasions the imperfection of the conducting Power. But till the causes of heat and of electricity are known, and of that peculiar constitution of matter which excites the one, and transmits or propagates the other, our reasoning on this subject must be inconclusive. I found that when equal portions of wires of the same diaineter, but of different metals, were connected together in the circuit of a powerful voltaic battery, acting as twvo surfaces, the metals were heated in the following order: iron most, then palladium, then platinum, then tin, then zinc, then gold, then lead, then copper, and silver least of all. And from one experiment, in which similar wires of platinum and silver joined in the same circuit were placed in equal portions of oil, it appeared that the generation of heat was nearly inversely as their conducting power. Thus the silver raised the temperature of the oil only four degrees, whilst the platinum raised it twenty-two. The same relations to heat seem to exist, whatever is the intensity of the electricity; thus circuits of wires placed under water, and acted on by the common electrical discharge, were heated in the same order as by the voltaic battery, as was shown by their relative fusion; thus, iron fusing before platinum, platinum before gold, and so on. If a chain be made of wire of platinum and silver, in alternate links soldered together, the silver wire being four or live times the diameter of the platinum, and placed in a powerful voltaic circuit, the silver links are not sensibly heated, produced by electricity. 439 whilst all those of the platinum become intensely and equally ignited. This is an important experiment for investigating the nature of heat. If heat be supposed a substance, it cannot be imagined to be expelled from the platinum; because an unlimited quantity may be generated from the same platinum, i. e. as long as the electricity is excited, or as often as it is renewed. Or if it be supposed to be identical with,, or an element of, electricity, it ought to bear some relation to its quantity, and might be expected to be the same in every part of the chain, or greatest in those parts nearest the battery. IX. The magnetism produced by electricity, though with the same conductors it increases with the heat, as I mentioned in my last paper; yet with different conductors I find it follows a very different law. Thus, when a chain is made of different conducting wires, and they are placed in the same circuit, they all exhibit equal magnetic powers, and take up equal quantities of iron filings. So that the magnetism seems directly as the quantity of electricity which they transmit. And when in a highly powerful voltaic battery, wires of the same diameters and lengths, but of which the best conducting is incapable of wholly discharging the battery, are made, separately and successively, to form the circuit, they take up different quantities of iron filings, in some direct proportion to their conducting powers. Thus in one experiment, two inches of wire of --o of an inch being used, silver took up 32 grains, copper 24, plati' num ii, and iron 8.,o. 