C +t8 3 XXIV. Sccoant of a mineral Substance, called Strontionite, tX which are exbibtted its external, physical, and chemical Cha racters. By Mr. Jolln Godfrey Schmeisser, F. R. S. Read May 29, 179+* r n S i HIS substance has obtained its name from the place Stron tionn in Scotland, where it is found in granite rocks, accompanied by galena and witherite, which latter is describedv byDr. WI THERING in the Philosopllical tRransactions of tlle year 1 784¢ On all the specimens which I have seen of this substance, I could not discover any regular crystallized shape, like the witherite. The specimen which I sublmitted -to experiments, was in solid masses of a fibrous texture, apparently c.omposed of long fibres, closely adhering to each other, and disposed in a radiated xllannerS its colour was an asparagus greenj which appeared: cieepWer towards the centre of the nlass; when broken, theXsurface was a little shining in certain directions, the fragments ratller bar-like, and somewhat brittle. Some specimens exhibit orlly light shades of tllis colour; and appear to be composed of long thin bars« wllich are often. separated from each otller towards the extremity. rl he specinlen nvhich I examinedn and used for experiments; ras semitrarlsparent but the luost part of it rather incliaing to opaque Mr. SCHMEXSSER'S AMcco?nt of a mineral SubsZctnce, scw 419As to hardness, its surface could be scratched with a hard knife, but not scraped. Its specific gravity I found as ,G86, compared to distilled water of 60° temperature. Properties of the Szzbstalzge. N. B. 'the first experimentsX which pointed out a distinctioll between its basis and the ponderous earth of SCHEELE, were made, at Dr. GRAWFORD'S desire, by his assistallt Mr. CRUIK_ SHANK, and were afterw-ards repeated by himself w the account of wllich is irlserted in the second volllme of the Medical Communications. EX PERI MEN T I . I reduced a certain quantity of the substance to a very fine powder, and boiled it in water for some time, but no solution took place. EXPERI MEN T l I . ith acids. It was llot affiected by sulplluric acidS but was entirely soluble in nitric and muriatic acid, with a strong effervescence during which a great quantity of gax was dis engagedX which when triedn was entirely aksorbed by lime water, extinguished flame, and had no smell. EXPERI MEN T I I 1. Diluted sulphuric acid dropped into a diluted solution of this substance in nitric and m-arine acid, occasioned a white powdery precipitate, which was irlsoluble irl water. sH 2 Mr. SCHMEISSER S Account of a42QEXPERIMENT IY A piece of the substance was exposed to the action of the blow-pipe, did rlot crackle rlor split asunder, nor did it mele when even exposed to wllite heat, but it discovered a very bright phosphorescent light became more brittle, and had lost its greenish cast; it was then partly soluble in water It only lost a lrery little of its weight, when exposed for a long time to white heatS but it then still effervesces with acids. EXPER I MEN T V. It melted with borax and soda with ebullition, but neither a blue nor a green colour was produced when melted with tlle first. EXPERIMENT VI. Liquid olatile alkali did not extract any blue colour from the powdered substance, nor when added to the solution in acids. EXPERIMENT VII. The solutions sn nitric and muriatic acid were icolourlessy and a piece of paper dipped into this rlitric solutiGn burut with a red flame, which was first observed by Dr. Asz. EXPERIMENT v IIl. Phlogisticated alkali, or prussiate of pot-ashf added to a sa turated solutionS discovered a very slight quantity of blue precipitate. EXPERIMENT IXo Oxalic acid, or acid of sugar, added to the diluted solution« discovered a very slight precipitate. minerat SvIstatre, ealled Strontzonite.EXPERIMENT X. The remaining liquid of the foregoing experiment was mixed with sulphuric acid, until no ulore precipitate took pIace, the remairsing filtered liquor was sathrated with purified pot-ashs and no earth was separated or discovered EXPERIMEN-T XI. A certain quantity of the powdered substance was dissolvedS and saturated witla nitric acid, and evaporated; it therl crystallized, the crystals were permahent in air, diEl not cleliquesces and exhibited triangular aIld sexangular plates. EXPERIMENT XII. When dissolved and saturated with muriatic acid, it exhibited on evaporation long six-sided prismatic crystalss which have the broad alternating with the narrow sides, terminating in obtuse trihedral pyramids; this was observed by Dr. CRAW_ FORDS who also found that the salt formed of the substance with avids bliss)!ved tiz water, produced five times more sold than the salt froe the baryles in the same acid a that the salt formed by marise acid and this substance was much more soluble zn warxn wczZer tban zn colcS, whilst tbe muriat of barytes is nearly as soluble in cold as in warm water, tbat one ounce of dfistilled water dfassolves tZiree times as musb of the muriat of Strontionite aws the muriafS of >6arytes, wbich makes a distinctzon between the basis of thzs sxbstance and the barytes. EXPERIMENT XIII iNitric acid added to the solutiotl of that substance in muriatic acid, occasiorled a decomposition. Mr. SCHMEISSER S Account of a4,22EXPERIMEN T XIV. A tuantity of this substance wasdissolved in muriatic acid, the solution tnuch diluted with distilled water3 and afterwards precipitated by diluted sulphuric acicl The precipitate was dried and decomposed by purified pot-ash, by means of heat. The earth which was thus separated, vas perfectly freed from saline parts, afterwards dried and calcined, in order to dSeprive it of moisture. A qualltity of tllis earth was again dissolved in acid, in orcler to ascertain tlle quantity of carbonic acid, or fised airg which it contained, and the real proportio of ptlre earth colltained in a certain quantity. I then found by accurate experiTnellts, ost. That loo grains of specific sulphuric acicl required oqS graills of the pure earth for saturation 2dly. That loo grains of nitric acid required 94 grains, and Sdly. That loo grains of muriatic acid required $6 grains for saturation. Which experiment ascertained tlle dormgnt affinity of this eartll to those acids. I also ascertained in the same way, lst. That loo grains of sulphuric acid required 9So grains of barytes 2dly. That loo gralns bfnitric acid required 120 grainsn and Sdly. That the same quarltity of muriatic acid required 96 for saturationS which gave tlat dortuant affinity betsvist tlle barytes a-lld those acids. From these experimelats r dresv the following concluslons. lst. That according to experirnent -I. the substance con t-asined llo saline parts. 2dly. That according to experimellt II. it contained fixed air mtvneral Substance, called Strontzonzete.423dly. That according to experiment lII. it contained an earth somewhat similar to barytes. 4thly. That according to experiment IV. it disco^ersno crystallizing water. *thly T}at according to experiment s. the substarlce contained no cobalt. 6thly. That according to experiment VI. the substance cortained no copper. 7thly. Tha:t accortling to experiment VIII. it contained a little irorl. 8thly. That accordilag to experimerlt IX. the substance con tained calcareous earth. gthly. That according to experiment s. the substance COlltained no argillaceous nor magnesiatl earth. lothly. Th?^t according to the last experiment, the base of this substance is distinct from the barytes. In order to ascertain the quantity or proportion of compo nent parts of this substance, EXPERI M-EN T I.One hundred grains were dissolved in acid, and yielded 3o grains of fixed airv EXPER I MEN T I I .. The solution was diluted, and mixed with oxalic acid, br mearls of vvshich half a grain of calcareous earth was separated (ill the state of oxalate of lime). EXPERIMENT III. The remaining solution was decomposed, alad yielded 69 grains of pure earth. Mr. SCHMEXSSER S AG¢OUXt of a4§4According to these experiments, ooo grains of the analyzed substance contains go grains of fixed air, l of calcareous, and 68 grains of another earth, which may be called Strontion earth, and the remaining weight tnay be accounted for, froFm the substallce which gives it the colour, arld which I sllggest, from comparative experiments, to be phosphate of iron and manganese ,the proportion of which I could not accurately ascertain, on account of the smallness of the specimen which I possessed, alld svhicll I employed for analysis, but whicll I shall endeavour to ascertain by future experiments on a larger scate, In order to compare the nature of the substance with which it ^ras accompanied to the before-mentioned substance, I made the following experiments. This substance was crystallized in six-sided prisms with pyramids, colourless, semitransparent, rather opaque towards the basis, and less hard than the other substance; a certain quantity of it I reduced to fine powder, and submitted it to various experiments, by which I found that it contained barytes, calcareous earth, and carbonic acid. One hundred grains of this substance were dissolved in marine acid, during which o grains of carbollic acid were se parated; the solution was gently evaporated, and exposed t<?; crystallize. The crystals were then exposed for solne time to air in a funnel, during which part of the crystals had deliquesced. When no more deliquescence was observed, the whole liquor was diluted with a sufficient quantity of distilled water, and diluted sulphuric acid was then added, by means of wllich 2 grains of barytes were separated. The filtered liquor was then decomposed by alliali, and 12 grains of calcareous earth were separated. The dry crystals remaining on the mineral Substance, called Strontionitec ges funnel were then dissolved in distilled water, and also decom posed by alliali, by means of which 68 grains of barytes were obtained. According to these experiments, loo grains of this crystallized substance yielded by decomposition 70 grains of barytes,, ^ grailas of carbonic acicl, and 12 grains of calcareous earth. The diffierence of the 3 remaining grains may be accounted for by the waters by tlze small loss which svas observed whela the crystallized substance was exposed to a strong heat, and also from the crackling which was perctived when exposed to a sudden heat. Wlaether this crystallized sulestance is diffierellt from that specimen svhicla Dr. V\rzE.RING allalyzed, or whe ther the calcareous earth escaped llis obsersation durillg his experiments, I cannot decide, as he does 1lot melation tllat lae employel the substance ill a crystallized stctte tsor his experitnents.t # The experiments newly cotnmunicated by Mr. KIRNNZAN, and those which are promised to be comtnunicated by DrO HOPE) Will probahly thIOW soule more light on the nature of the StrontlonlteX1MDCCXC 1V. 