Fig:8 8 7 9 6 5 4 3 5 3 2 1 9 8 1 ~ 5 ~ 8 8 ~ 7 C ~ ~ C C ~ ~ C B A F E D C Some Additional Remarks on the Extracting the Stone of the Bladder out of those of the Female Sex. By Thomas Molyneux, M. D. S. R. S. ABout Six Years since, a Paper of mine was read before our Philosophical Society here in Dublin, and after publish'd in the Philosophical Transactions, Numb. 202. Wherein I gave an Account of a Stone of an extraordinary bignels, spontaneously voided through the Uthera, by a Woman here in Dublin: And as a Corollary or Deduction from this History, I there proposed the Extraction of the Stone, by the gradual Dilatation of the Urethra, or Neck of the Bladder, without any manner of Section. as the most safe and easy Way, and of most general use, for the freeing those of the Female Sex from the Stone in the Bladder. <inferred>I</inferred> (12) I then alledged two Instances of Fact, to prove not only the Reasonableness, but the real Success of this Practise; and I have been since still more confirmed in that Opinion by several other succesful Operations I have seen of the like kind: but more particularly, by one lately performed in this Town on a Girl, between Eleven and Twelve Years Old, one Sarah Jones, that for Six Years past, has been severely afflicted with all the painful and unusual Symptoms of the Stone, but on the 16th of October, was happily relieved, by only dilating gently, the Neck of the Bladder, and then extracting a Stone of a very considerable bulk, without making any Incision at all. The whole Operation was performed in Six or Seven Minutes, and was the more remarkable on the Account of the extraordinary large Size of the Stone, whose Shape and Bigness is exactly represented in the annext Figure, Vid. Tab. Fig. 1. I did omit taking the Weight of it, nor was it truly any great neglect, since I think it no very material Circumstance for our Information in in such Cases, to know exactly what a Stone Weighs; for the greater or less Gravity of these Bodies, depend not on their outward Dimensions, so much as on their internal Parts accidentally cohering more or less compactly together, as they are formed in the Bladder, and as if no importance in the Operation of extracting them: the Difficulty or Easiness of which, as well as the Danger and Success, more immediately depend, on the Magnitude and Shape of the Stone, rather than on its Gravity; so that if we have a right Idea of those, 'tis altogether sufficient to our Purpose. By the Size of this we have here figured, it appears to have been so big, that it may seem almost incredible a Solid of that Bulk, should be forced through the Urethra of so small and so Young a Child, withont any manner (13) manner of Section: and that the Child should recover so as to be perfectly well, without the least ill Accident succeeding the Operation. But we may gather hence, of what vast Extention this Urinary Passage, though Naturally strait, is capable; and how much still wider it may be dilated, where 'tis proportionably larger, I mean of those of this Sex of Riper Years, or grown up to Womens Estate; who may yet more easily and safely be relieved after this same manner, even of Stones of a much larger Size than this we here speak of. The French, a Nation certainly very subject.to the Stone in the Bladder, and whose Chirurgeons therefore, must of necessity be very conversant with this Disease, and expert in the Operations requisite for the Cure of it, have, I see, lately established this sort of Practice; tho' I must needs own I did not know so much, till I had perused a very useful Book of Chirurgery, Published but this last Year, 1696. at Paris, in 8vo. by Monsieur de la Vauguion; Entituled, Traite Complet des Operations de Chirurgie: where I find in his Thirteenth Chapter, that treats of the Stone in the Bladder, and describes the way of Extracting it out of Women; he has these Words: On dilate l'Uretre avec le Dilatateur sans rien couper, & 'lon tire la pierre avec un crochet ou bien avec de Tenettes. And a little after; L'Uretre de Femmes se dilate extraordinairement, ainsi il arrive rarement qu'on soit oblige de leur faire une Incision. These Quotations may shew, how that right Reasoning, together with due Experience, have not only suggested, but likewise approved and settled this way of Extracting the Stone out of the Bladder of Women without Section. When I was a Stranger to this Practice, I did only then propose it to be well considered of by the Judicious; but now that it proves so succesful, I cannot C but (14) but recommend it to the skilful Chirurgeon, as an Operation fit for general use in these Cases, being both safe and easily Practicable, and also of great benefit and Relief to no less than the Moiety of Mankind, when ever they are afficted with this painful Disease. And to say truly, if Women in this case would but timely seek for help, they might with far less Danger and Pain be relieved of this torturing and lasting Evil, than they are delivered of a common Natural Birth. I say timely seek for Help; that is, before the Stone is grown to so large a Magnitude, as not to admit this sort of Operation; of which there may be some Instances, though I believe, as the attempting the Cure of such will be very dangerous, so likewise they will be very rarely met with; for Experience Justifies what I have elsewhere observed, (Numb. 202. of the Philosophical Transactions) that Women are not capable by Nature of breeding Stones in their Bladders of so big a Size as Men frequently do; which is most apparent from those many Histories of stupendious large Stones (I mean them of the greatest Magnitude) Registred by both George and John Schenkius, Hildanus, Greonevelt, the Philosophical Transactions, and other Authors; all which that have hitherto occur'd to me, have been only found in Men: Whereas the largest I have heard of bred in a Womans Bladder, was not one fifth Part of what has been produced of this kind in a Man's. In the Philosophical Transactions, Numb. 222. there is inserted an Account of the largest Stone I have yet heard of bred in a Man's Bladder: That mentioned by Mr. Wood the Chirurgeon, Numb. 209. of the same Transactions. taken out of a Woman, and as he thought, of a Prodigious Size, does not amount to near a Fifth Part of this: However, that is extraordinary in Mr. Wood's Relation, that though it was extracted by Section, and the Mem(15) Membranous part of the Bladder, as he says, cut in the Operation, yet the Patient recovered and became perfectly well. But these, and such like surprising Cures, I take to be erratick or Anomalous, if I may so call them; because they happen seldom, and when they do, seem to be contrary to the setled Rules of Physick; and therefore can little avail in guiding a Man's Practice, according to the Saying, Quae Rara sunt, not sunt Artis: And notwithstanding several such rare Cases, daily Experience will vouch for the Authority of that Aphorism of Hippocrates, ~ ~ ~, cui Secta est vesica lethale est, as not being founded on a sew Examples or a Notion, but what commonly holds true, or as Hippocrates often expresses it, ~ ~ ~ ~, for the most part, which is a sufficient, and indeed the only Principle on which we may constitute a standing Rule in Physick; for as the Judicious Celsus has truly observed in his Preface to his Book de Re Medica, Vix ulla Perpetua praecepta Medicinalis, Ars recipit. 