Extract of a Letter from the Rev. Dr. Stephen Hales F. R. S. to the Rev. Mr. Westly Hall, concerning some Electrical Experiments. Dear Sir, T H E Favour of yours of Jan. 27. I should have answer'd sooner, but have been prevented by Variety of Business, espeH h h 2 cially * Like nubes, labes, sepes. ~ Of the City of Coria in Spain. Teddington, Feb. 23, 1746-7. Read June 30. 1748. [410] cially the being much in London; where I saw last Week some electrical Experiments; in which new Field of Researches there are daily new Discoveries made: The active electric Fluid seems to be a great Agent, in Conjunction with the Air, in the Production of Fire. A warm thick Piece of Iron being suspended by two silk Lines, had a warm very thick Piece of Brass laid on it, on which was placed a common Hen's Egg: When electrified, the Flashes from the Iron were of a bright silver light Colour; from the Brass (especially near it) the Flashes were green; and from the Egg of a yellowish Flame Colour; which seems to argue, that some Particles of those different Bodies were carried off in the Flashes, whence these different Colours were exhibited. It is suspected that great Degrees of electrifying have occasion'd some Women to miscarry; and no Wonder that such sudden Shocks should do it. I wrote to Mr. King the Experimenter to electrify a Frog, while the Circulation of its Blood was viewed with a Microscope, to see if it accelerated its Motion, which he has not yet done. He observes, that a Piece of Linen that has never been washed, will soon give a good Degree of Electricity to a large warm glass Tube; viz. on account of the mealy Paste, which Weavers dress the Linen with; and therefore any Piece of Linen thus dressed will do. I gave an Account in the General Evening Post of September last of the great Benefit of Ventilators in Newgate,and in the Success Frigate for Georgia, which lay five Months wind-bound in our Chanel with the Transports for Cape Breton, the rest of which were all [411] all very sickly; but in the Georgia Frigate, in which were about 300 Men, all were in good Health; and last Week I was informed that they got all in Health to Georgia. * * * Your obliged and affectionate humble Servant, Stephen Hales. VIII. 