155, j Vili. On a CombinatiIn of Oxymurz'atic -Gas 'nd O, Mne Gas. By Humphry Davy, Esq. LL. D. Sec. R. S. Prof Clem. R. L. Read February 2, i8ii. SHALL beg permission to lay before the Society the account of some experiments on a compound of oxymnuriatic gas and oxygene gas, which, I trust, xvill be found to illustrate an interesting branch of chemical enquiry, and vWhich offer some extraordinary and novel results. I was led to make these experiments in consequence of the difference between the properties of oxymuriatic gas prepared in diierent modes; it would occupy a great 1ength of time to state the whole progress of this investigation, It wvill, I conceive, be more interesting that I should immediaely refer to the facts; most of which have beenn witnessed by Members of this Body, belonging to the Committee of Chemistry of the Royal Insftit tion. The oxymuriatic gas prepared from manganese, either by mixing it with a muriate arid acting upon it by sulphuric acid, or by mixing it with muriatic acid, is when the oxide of -man. ganese is pure, and, whether collected over water or mercury,. uniform in its properties 'its colour is a pale yellowish green;. water takes up about tiice its volume; ai d scarcely oga'l any colour; the metais burn in it readily ; it conbines with hydrogene without any deposition of moisture: it does not. i.,56 1 . DA VYoi a Combinatio act on nitrous gas or muriatic acid, or carbonic oxide, or sule phureous gasses, when they have been carefully dried. It is the substance which I employed in all the experiments on the combinations of oxymuriatic gas, described in my last two papers. The gas produced by the action of muriatic acid on the salts which have been called hyperoxymuriates, on the contrary, differs very much in its properties, according as tie nmanner in which it is prepared and collected is different. When much acid is employed to a small quantity of salt, and the gas is collected over water, the water becomes tinged of a lemon colour; but the gas collected is the same as that procured from manganese. When the gas is collected over mercury and is procured from a weak acid, and froin a great excess of salt, by a low heat, its colour is a dense tint of brilliant yellow green, and it possesses properties entirely different from the gas collected over water. It sometimes explodes during the time of its transfer from -one vessel to another, producing heat and light, with anr expansion of volume; and it may be always made to explode -by a very gentle heat, often by that of the hand.* My brother, Mr. Jo DAVY, from whom I receive constant and abIl assistance in ,all my chemical enquiries, had several times observed explosions, in transferring the gas from hyperoxymuriate of potash, over mercury, and he was inclined to attribute the plixnomenon to the combustion of a thin film of mercury, in contact -with a globule of gas. I several times endeavoured to produce the effect, but without SuCesCs till an acid was employed for the preparation of the gas, so diluted as not to aford it without the assistance of heat The change of colour and expansion of vow Iume, when the efFect took place, immediately convinced me, that it was owing to a ,deco-mposition of the gas. of (rywura.iie GaIs and OxygeneA. It is a compound of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene, mixed with some oxymuriatic gas. This is proved by the results of its spontaneous explosion. It gives oil; in this process, from 6to -5 itS volu'Men of oxvgene, loses its vivid colour, and becomes common oxymuriatic gas. I attempted to obtain the explosive gas in a pure form, by applying heat to a solution of it in water; but in this case, there was a partial decomposition; and some oxygene was disengaged, and some oxymuriatic gas formed. Finding that in the cases w hen it was most pure, it scarcely acted upon mercury, I attempted to separate the oxymuriatc gas with which it is mixed, by agitation in a tube with this metal ;t corrosive sublimate formed, and an elastic fluid wras obtained, which was almost entirely absorbed by of its volume of water. This gas in its pure form is so easily decomposable, that it is dangerous to operate upon considerable quantities. In one set of experimnents upon it, a jar of strong glass, containin g 4o cubica.1 inches, exploded in my hands with a loud report, prducing lightthe vessel was broken, and fragments of it were thrown to a conlsderablk distance. I analysed a portion of this gas, by causing it to explode over mercury in a curved glass tube, by the heat of a spirit lamp. The oxymuriatic gas formed, was absorbed by water; the oxygene was found to be pure, by the test of nitrous gI1I 50 parts of the detonating gas, by decomposition ex panded so as to become 6o parts. The oxygene, remaining after the absorption of the oxymuriatic gas, w as about 0o parts. Several other experie ts were made, ABit siMdar r`' Sts. So that it mBay be inlferr?.dl, that it consists of X in :oolutrne of cxymuriM,1c gas, and i in vollum.e of oxvg en and the oh M~~~~~~~cccxi.~~~~~~~~~~~~vZJ ..Mr. DAVY Ofl a Combination gene in the gas is condensed to half its volume. Circumstances conformable to the laws of combination of gaseous fluids, soi ably illustrated by M. GAY LuSSAc, and to the theory of definite proportions. I have stated on a former occasion, that approximations to, the numbers representing the proportions in which oxygene and oxymuriatic gas combine, are found in 75. and ,12.9. And this compound gas contains nearly these quantities.* The smell of the pure explosive gas somewhat resembles that of burnt sugar, mixed with the peculiar smell of oxymiuriatic gas. Water appeared to take up eight or ten times its volume; but the experiment was made over mercury, which might occasion an error, though it did not seem to act on the fluid. The water became of a tint approaching to orange. When the explosive gas was detonated with hydrogene, equal to twice its volume, there was a great absorption, to more than 3, and solution of muriatic acid was formed; when the explosive gas was in excess, oxygene was always expelled, a fact demonstrating the stronger attraction of hydrogene for oxymuriatic gas than for oxygene. I have said that mercury has no action upon this gas in its purest form at common temperatures. Copper and anti-I In page 245 of the Phil. Trans. for i8io, I have mentioned that the specific gravity of oxymuriatic gas, is between 74 and 75 grains per ioo cubical incules. The gas that I weighed, was collected over water and procured from hyperoxymuriate of potash, and at that time I conceived, that this elastic fluid did not differ from the oxymuriatic gas from manganese, except in being purer. It probably contained some of the new gas; for I find that the specific gravity of pure oxymuriatic gas fron maiganese, and muriatic acid is to that of ommon air, as 244 to 0oo Taking this estimation, the specific gravity of the new gas will be about 238, and the number representing the proportion in which oxymuriatic gas cornbines, from this estimation3 will be lather higher than is stated above. of Oxyrnuriatic G s and Oxygene. 19 miony, which so readily burn in oxymuriatic gas, did not act upon the explosive gas in the cold: and when they were introduiced into it, being heated, it was instantly decomposed, and its oxyge~ne set free; and the metals burnt in the oxy. muriatic gas. When sulphur was introduced into it, there was at first no action, but an explosion soon took place: and the peculiar smell of oxymurkate of sulphur was perceived, Phosphorus produced a brilliant explosion, by contact with it in the cold, and there was produced phosphoric acid and solid oxymuriate of phosphorus. Arsenic introduced into it did not inflame; the gas was made to explode, when the metal burnt with great brilliancy il the oxymuriatic gas. Iron wire introduced into it did not burn, till it was heated so as to produce an explosion, when it burnt with a most brilliant light in the decomposed gas. Charcoal introduced in it ignited, produced a brilliant flash of light, ndburnt with a dull red light, doubtless owing to its acLion upon the oxygene mixed with the oxymuriatic gas. It produced dense red fumes when mixed with nitrous gas, and there was an absorption of volume. When it was mixed xwpith muriatic acid gas} there was a gradual diminution of volume. By the application of heat the absorption was rapid, oxymuriatic gas was formed, and a dew appeared on the sides of the vessel. These experiments enable us to explain the contradictory accounts that have been given by different authors of the pro. perties of oxymuriatic gas. That the explosive compound has not been collected before, * Y C2 1 0o Mr. DAVY on a C(omnbinat zon is owxing to the circumstance of water having been used for receiving the products from hyperoxymuriate of potash, and unless the water is highly saturated with the explosive gas, nothing but oxymuriatic gas is obtained; or to the circumStance of too dense an acid having been employed. This substance produces the phoenomena which Mr. CPzENEVIX, in his able paper on oxymuriatic acid, referred to the hyperoxygenised muriatic acid;, and they prove the truth of his ideas respecting the-possible existence of a compound of oxymuriatic gas, and oxygene in a separate state. The explosions produced in attempts to procure the praducts of hyperoxymuriate of potash by acids are evidently owing to the decomposition. of this new and extraordinary substance. All the conclusiono NAlch I have vcr wun:ed to maake respecting the ulecompounded nature of oxyvnuriatic gas, are, I conceive, entirely confirmed by these new facts. If oxymuriatic gas contained oxygene, it is not easy to conceive., why oxygene should be afforded by this new compound to muriatic gas, which must already contain oxygene in intimate union. Though on the idea of muriatic acid being a compound of hydrogene and oxymuriatic gas, the phxnoinena are such as might be expected. If the power of bodies to burn in oxymu.riatic gas dependedupon the presence of oxygene, they all ought to burn witI i hiuch more energy in the new compound; but copper ai-d ;antimony, and mercury, and arsenic, and ironi, and sulphur have no action upon it, till it is decomposed and they act then according to their relative attractions on the oxygenie, or on the oxymuriatic gas. There is a simple experiment which illustrates this idea a of Oxymuriatic Gas and OXygene. :t6 Let a glass vessel containing brass foil be exhausted, and the new gas admitted, no action will take place ; throw in a little nitrous gas, a rapid deCornposition occurs, and the metal burns with great brilliancy. Supposing oxygene and oxymruriatic gas to belong to the same class of bodies ; the attraction between them might be conceived very weaek, as it is found to be, and they are easily Sep>arted from each other, and made repulsive by a very low degree of heat. Thtl most vivid efe lcts of combustion known, are those pros duced by the condei-s ,tion of oxygene or ox lruriatic gas ; but in this instance, a violent explosion with heat and light are produced by their separation, and expansion, a perfectly novel circumstance in chemical philosophy. This compouid destroys dry vegetable colours, but first gives them a tint of red; This and its considerable absorba?. bility by water would incline one toadopt Mr. CLENEVIXSidea that it approaches to an acid in its nature. It is probably combined with the prroxide of potassium in the hyperoxyow m urnate. That oxymuriatic gas and oxyrene combine and separate from each other with such peculiar pulxnoniela, appearsstrongly in fav"ur of the idea of thelr be:ag, distinct, though anulogous species of matter. It is certainly possible to defernd the hyypothb,-Ks thatoxwtrkatic gas consists of oxygene united to an unknown basis ; but it would be cossible likewise to de' fend the speculation that it contains hydrogene. Like oxyg ne it has not yet been decomposed; and I soinetime ago made an experiment) which, likemost of the others I hlave brought forxward, is very adverse to the idea of its cowntaindiig w.ygcne, 1i 6X ~Mr. DAVY On a Combination, &c. I passed the solid oxymuriate of phosphorus in vapour, and oxygene gas together through a green glass tube heated to redness. A decomposition took place, and phosphoric acid was formed, and oxymuriatic gas was expelled. Now, if oxygene existed in the oxymuriate of phosph. rus, there is no reason why this change should take place. On the idea of oxymuriatic gas being undecompounded, it is easiiy explained. Oxygen e is known to have a stronger attrac.tion for phosphorus thanoxymuriaticgas has, andconsequently ought to expel it from this combination. As the new compound in its purest form is possessed of a bright yellow green colour, it may be expedient to designate it by a name expressive of this circumstance, and its relation to oxymuriatic gas. As I have named that elastic fluid Chlorine,, so I venture to propose for this substance the namne Euchlofine, or Euchloric gas from wV and X~xwpo;. The point of Nomenclature I am not, however, inclined to dwell upon. I shall be content to adopt any naaie that may be consitdered as most appropriate by the able chemical philosophers attached to this Society.* In page 27, l-ne 1 i, of the B]kerian lecture, for " water separated and LMBAV I us's liquor was formed," read is a compound of water and Li B AVI U S'S liquor separated." In page 21, it is stated that nagnesia is not decomposed by oxymuriatic gas at a red heat. From some experiments of M. M. GAY Lu sA C, and ')'HENARD, BullCt. de la Societ. Phil. Mai, i8 to, it appears that oxygene is procured by passing .oxymuri;tic gas over mngne sia, at a high temperature, and that a muriate indecomposable by heat is proved. They attribute th. presence of this oxygene to the decomposition of the acid, but according to all andlogies, it must arise from the decompGation of the earth. 