Some Observations made in the Dissection of three Subjects; by Mr. Ranby, F. R. S. T H E First, a Man aged 70 Years, who died of a Suppression of Urine, occasion'd by a Stone stopping in the Urethra, just within the Glans, of the Bigness of a Horse-Bean. This Appearance, with the Symptoms that had attended this miserable Man, gave me Reason to expect something remarkable in the urinary Passages. The Ureters and Pelvis were very much distended; which is common where great Numbers of Stones have descended down them, from the Kidneys to the Bladder. The Bladder contained about sixty Stones, the largest of which was about the Size of a Walnut, the others smaller; and just within the Neck, was a hard Tumour, as big as a Nutmeg, which almost (414) almost closed the Orifice: and indeed the Situation of this Tumour was such, that it not only made the passing the Catheter very difficult, and hinder'd our feeling the Stones, by directing the Instrument upwards; but likewise would alone produce the Symptoms of the Stone in the Bladder, by obstructing the free Discharge of Urine through the Urethra; the inner Membrane of which appeared as if lacerated in several Places, and the Tube fill'd with a glutinous Matter tinged with Blood. On the back Part of the Vesiculae Seminales, near the Prostata, were several Stones, as large as Peas, which closely adhered to the adjacent Membranes. The Second, a Boy aged 10 Years, kill'd by a Blow on the Skull; whose Spleen weigh'd two Pounds, and possessed almost all the left Side of the abdominal Cavity. The Bladder, when distended to its greatest Capacity, would not contain an Ounce. The Third, a Man aged 25, who died of a Pocky Hectick, and some Days before complained of a painful Swelling in the Testicle, which he said came the Night before. I examin'd it, and found it to be a Hernia Aquosa, and would have punctur'd it, if I had not felt (besides the Water) a hard Body, which I could by no Means reduce. In a few Days he died, which gave me an Opportunity of being satisfied. Opening the Scrotum, and separating the common Membranes to the Processus Vaginalis, it contained about four Ounces of Water, besides a great Part of the Omentum; some Portion of which adhered to the Bottom of the Cavity, and the Albuginea that immediately covers the Testicle. F I N I S. 