B 3o0 , XX. An Account of a Membrane in the Eye, nowfirst described. By Arthur Jacob, M. D. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Demonstrator of Anatomy and Lecturer on Diseases of the Eye in the University of Dublin. Communicated by James Macartney, M. D. F. R. S. Read July 1, 18X9. AN ATOM I ST s describe the retina as consisting of two portions, the medullary expansion of the nerve, and a membranous or vascular layer. The former externally, next to the choroid coat, and the latter internally, next to the vitreous humor.* All however, except ALBINus and some of his disciples, agree, that the nervous layer cannot be separated so as to present the appearance of a distinct membrane, though it may be scraped off, leaving the vascular layer perfect. That the medullary expansion of the optic nerve is supported by a vascular layer, does not I think admit of doubt ; but it does not appear that ALBINUS was right in sup. posing that the nervous layer can be separated in form of a distinct membrane, though shreds of a considerable size may be detached, especially if hardened by acid or spirit. Exclusive of these two layers, I find that the retina is covered on its external surface by a delicate transparent* RUYSCH. Epist. Anat. Prob. xiii. ALSINus, Annot. Acad. lib, iii. cap. xiv. HALLER, Elem. Phys. T. v. lib. xvi. sect. Z. ZuNi.Descrip. Anat. Oculi. cap. iii. sect. iii, SABATIER, BoYIER, CHARLES BELL, CUVIER, &C, &C. Dr. JAcoB's account of a membrane in the eyeb Sol membrane, united to it by cellular substance and vessels. This structure, not hitherto noticed by anatomists, I first observed in the spring of the last year, and have since so frequently demonstrated, as to leave no doubt on mny mind of its existence as a distinct and perfect membrane, apparently of the same nature as that which lines sercus cavities. I cannot describe it better, than by detailing the method to be adopted for examining and displaying it, Having procured a human eye, within forty-eight hours after death, a thread should be passed through the layers of the cornea, by which the eye may be secured under water, by attaching it to a piece of wax, previously fastened to the bottom of the vessel, the posterior half of the sclerotic having been first removed. With a pair of dissecting forceps in each hand, the choroid coat should be gently torn open and turned down. If the exposed surface be now carefully examined, an experienced eye may perceive, that this is not the appearance usually presented by the retina; instead of the blue-white reticulated surface of that membrane, a uniform villous structure, more or less tinged by the black pigment, presents itself. If the extreinity of the ivory handle of a dissecting knife be pushed against this surface, a breach is made in it, and a membrane of great delicacy may be separated and turned down in folds over the choroid coat, presenting the most beautiful specimen of a delicate tissue which the human body affords. If a small opening be made in the membrane, and the blunt end of a probe introduced beneath, it may be separated throughout, without being turned down, remaining loose over the retina; nwhich state if a small particle of paper or globule of air be introduced under it, it is raised so as to be seen against the S3o Dr. JAcoB's account of light, and is thus displayed to great advantage; or it is cometimes so strong as to support small globules of quicksilver dropped between it and the retina, which renders its membranous nature still more evident. If a few drops of acid be added to the water after the membrane has been separated, it becomes opaque and much firmer, and may thus be preserved for several days, even without being immersed ins spirit. That it isnot the nervous layer which I detach, is proved by the most superficial examination; first, because it is impossible to separate that part of the retina, so as to present the appearance I mention ;* and, secondly, because I leave the retina uninjured, and presenting the appearance described by anatomists, especially the yellow spot of SOEMMERRING which is never seen to advantage until this membrane be removed : and hence it is that that conformation, as well as the fibrous structure of, the retina in some animals, becomes better marked from remaining some time in water, by which the membrane I speak of is detached. The extent and connections of this. membrane are suffixe ciently explained by saying, that it covers the retina from the optic nerve to the ciliary processes. To enter into farther investigation on this subject, would lead to a discussion respecting the structure of the optic nerve, and the termination of the retina anteriorly, to which it is my intention to return at a future period. The appearance of this part I find to var in the different classes of animals and in man, according to age and other circumstances, In the foetus of nine months it is exceed-* See HAL LER, ZTIN, &c. loc. cit. a membrane in the eye. 3S03 ingly delicate, and with difficulty displayed. In youth it istrans. parent, and scarcely tinged by the black pigment. In the adult it is firmer, and more deeply stained by the pigment, which sometimes adheres to it so closely as to colour it almost as deeply as the chioroid coat itself; and to those who have seen it in this state, it must appear extraordinary that it should not have been before observed. In one subject, aged fifty, it possessed so great a degree of strength as to allow me to pass a probe under it, and thus convey the vitreous humor covered by it and the retina from one side of the basin to the other; and in a younger subject I have seen it partially separated from the retina by an effused fluid. In the sheep, ox, horse, or any other individual of the class mammalia which I have had an opportunity of examining, it presents the same character as in man; but is not so much tinged by the black pigment, adheres more firmly to the retina, is more uniform in its structure, and presents a more elegant appearance when turned down over the black choroid coat. In the bird, it presents a rich yellow brown tint, and when raised, the blue retina presents itself beneath; in animals of this class, however, it is difficult to separate it to any extent; though I can detach it in small portions. In fishes, the structure of this membrane is peculiar and curious. It has been already described as the medullary layer of the retina by HTALLER and CUVIER,* but I think incorrectly, as it does not present any of the characters of nervous structure, and the retina is found perfect beneath it. If the sclerotic coat be removed behind, with the choroid coat and gland so* Element. Phys. T. v. lib. xvi. sect. ii. CuVVIER Leqons d'Anat. Comp. T. ii. p. 419. go04 Dr. JACoB's account of called, the black pigment is found resting upon, and at. tached to, a soft friable thick fleecy structure, which can only be detached in small portions, as it breaks when turned down in large quantity. Or if the cornea and iris be removed anteriorly, and the vitreous humor and lens withdrawn, the retina may be pulled from the membrane, which remains attached to the choroid coat, its inner surface not tinged by the black pigment, but presenting a clear white, not unaptly compared by LIALLER to snow. Besides being connected to the retina, I find that the membrane is also attached to the choroid coat, apparently by fine cellular substance and vessels; but its connection with the retina being stronger, it generally remains attached to that membrane, though small portions are sometimes pulled off with the choroid coat. From this fact I think it follows, that the accounts hitherto given of the anatomy of these parts, are incorrect. The best anatomists* describe the external surface of the retina as being merely ill contact with the choroid coat, as the internal with the vitreous humor, but both totally unconnected by cellular membrane, or vessels, and even having a fluid secreted between them: some indeed speak loosely and generally of vessels passing from the chop roid to the retina; but obviously not from actual observation, as I believe no one has ever seen vessels passing from the one membrane to the other. My observations lead me to conclude, that wherever the different parts of the eye are ino See HIALLER, Elem. Phys. T. v.Bib. xvi. sect. ii. ZiN -. cap. ii. sectei. ? ii, BOTlR, Anat. T. iv. p. XX 3. SABATIE R, T. ii. p. 70g BICHAT, Anat. Descr. T. ii. P. 447. CUVipER, Leons d'Anat, Com p. T. il. p. 4Xi. CHARLES BELL, Anat. vol. iii. p. 5x. R iss, Mem. de la. Soc. Med. d'EmTulation, T. viii. p. 563, a membrane in the eye. 30o contact, they are connected to each other by cellular subh stance, and, consequently, by vessels; for I consider the failure of injections no proof of the want of vascularity in transparent and delicate parts, though some anatomists lay it down as a criterion. Undoubtedly the connection between these parts is exceedingly delicate, and, hence, is destroyed by the common method of examining this organ; but I think it is proved in the following way. I have before me the eye of a sheep killed this day, the cornea secured to a piece of wax fastened under water, and the posterior half of the sclerotic coat carefully removed. I thrust the point of the blade of a pair of sharp scissors through the choroid coat into the vitreous humor, to the depth of about an eighth of an inch, and divide all, so as to insulate a square portion of each membrane, leaving the edges free, and consequently no connection except by surface; yet the choroid does not recede from the membrane I describe, the membrane from the retina, nor the retina from the vitreous humor. I take the end of the portion of choroid in the forceps, turn it half down, and pass a pin through the edge, the weight of which is 'insufficient to pull it from its connection. I separate the membrane in like manner, but the retina I can scarcely detach from the vitreous humor, so strong is the connection. The same fact may be ascertained by making a transverse vertical section of the eye, removing the vitreous humor from the posterior segment, and taking the retina in the forceps, pulling it gently from the choroid, when it will appear beyond a doubt that there is a connection between them. Let us contrast this account of the matter Vith the comnon one. The retina, a membrane of such delicacy, is MDCccXiX, R r 3o6 Dr. JACOB'S account of described as being extended between the vitreous humor and choroid, from the optic nerve to the ciliary processes, being merely laid between them, without any connection, and the medullary fibres in contact, with a coloured mucus retained in its situation by its consistence alone. This account is totally at variance with the general laws of the animal economy: in no instance lhave we parts, so dissimilar in nature, in actual contact: wherever contact without connection exists, each surface is covered by a membrane, from which a fluid is secreted; and wherever parts are united, it is by the medium of cellular membrane, of which serous membrane may be considered as a modification. If the retina be merely in contact with the vitreous humor and choroid, we argue from analogy, that a cavity lined by serous membrane exists both on its internal and external surface; but this is not the fact. In the eye a distinction of parts was necessary, but to accom-s plish this a serous membrane was not required; it is only demanded where great precision in the motion of parts was indispensable, as in the head, thorax, and abdomen; a single membrane, with the interposition of cellular substance, answers the purpose here. By this explanation we surmount another difficulty, the unphilosophical idea of the colouring matter being laid on the choroid, and retained in its situation by its viscidity, is discarded; as it follows, if this account be correct, that it is secreted into the interstices of fine cellular membrane here, as it is upon the ciliary processes, back of the iris, .and pecten, tinder the conjunctiva, round the cornea, and in the edge of the membrane nictitans and sheath of the optic nerve in many animals. Dissections are recorded where fluids have been found collected between the choroid and a membrane in the eye. go7 retina, by which the structure of the latter membrane was destroyed; the explanation here given is as sufficient to account fbr the existence of this fluid, as that which attributes it to the increased secretion of a serous membrane. I take this opportunity of describing the method I adopt for examining and displaying these and other delicate parts, a method, which though simple, will, I expect, prove an i'mpor-. tant improvement in the means of scrutinizing the structure of animal and vegetable bodies. I procure a hollow sphere of glass from two to three inches in diameter, about one fourthof which is cut off at the part where it is open, and the edges ground down, so as to fit accurately upon a piece of plate glass, the surface of which is also ground ; the object to be examined is attached to a piece of wax fastened upon the plate of glass and immersed in a basin of water, with the cut sphere, which is inverted over it, of course full of water, and the whole withdrawn from the basin. Thepart may thus be examined under the most favourable circumstances; it floats in water, the only method by which delicate parts can be unfolded and displayed: the globular form of the vessel answers the purpose of a lens of considerable power and perfection, at the same time that it admits light in any quantity or direction to illuminate the object ; and, what is of the utmost importance, a preparation of the greatest delicacy may thus be handed round a class in safety. 