No.9. No. 10. A B C A B No:11. A B C No. 14. A B C No. 13. D E F C F D E G No.15. A H A B C G B D E F H I K L M I.S.Sculp: B No. 18: G C D F F A E No.12. G A B C H H D E F No.16. A B D D C D D G E C No.17. A B C E C A D B B [1093] A new way of raising Water; by Dr. Papin, Fellow of the Royal Society. HAving seen it practised severall times, that after the Discovery of some new Problem, the Inventor propounds it as a Riddle, to stir up those that are ingenious in the same kind of learning, and make them find sometimes better things then what is propounded: I have thought I might do the same, with a way for railing water, which I think surely to be new, since it is not used in considerable occasions where it might be of great advantage. A A. Is a great Glass made like a Tumbler, but much bigger, and laid upon the Chimney board B B. C C. Is the Engine like a small Rock, that doth constantly spout out water by the two holes D D: this Rock is kept at a distance from the bottom of the Glass A A: so that it may plainly be seen that it cannot receive any water by subterraneal Tubes. E E. Is a factitious Corall reaching from the Center of the Rock C C. to the Center of the Crown F F. F F. Is a Crown bearing upon the Aperture of the Glass A A. and holding the Rock C C. suspended at a considerable distance from the bottom. G G. A Glass open at both ends applyed to the Rock C C. to keep the water upon it from falling down. H H. Two shells to receive the water from the Jetto's. I would have brought this Engine hither, but it is so apt to be spoiled, by carrying to and fro, that I hope the R. S. will pardon me, if I keep it at my lodging, where it may be seen at any time: and if they be pleased to appoint some that may come, and release one another, to watch it a whole day, and see whether it will not run constantly, nor loose any thing of its strength: I [1094] I hope that the learned in Hydrostaticks, being by these means assured of the possibility of such a Motion, will be the more ready to think of it, and find perhaps something better then this. But if no body doth it, I will my self within some months, publish this contrivance, with the uses it may be applied to. According to the Inventors desire the Royal Society order'd that the thing should be observed: the Ingenious Mr. Hook saw it for near half an hour, there being other persons to observe it longer, who watch't it about four hours together, during which time there sprung out of the Rock C C. above a hundred times more water, then a vessel of the same bigness could hold: so that they went away not doubting but the water did circulate in the said Engin, and might continue a great deal longer, since it did run still as constantly and as high as at their first coming: and the Honorable Mr. Boyl, knowing the whole contrivance of the Engine, assures, that it may continue for a whole day and more; and thinks it worth to be left for some time, to the enquiry of Ingenious men. A Treatise 