[ 481 ] XXIV. On the Development and Homologies of the. Molar Teeth of the. Wart-Hogs (Phacochloerus), with Illustrations of a System of Notation for the Teeth in the Class MAMMALIA. By Professor OWEN, F.R.S. 8Sc. Received November 12, 1849,-Read February 7, 1850. IN a paper by EVERARD HOME, Esq., read before the Royal Society, May 30, 1799 some observations were communicated upon the formt, structure and succession of the teeth of the Wart-I-Hogs of Africa, now included in the genus of the Hog-family called Phacochwerus, lbut noticed in that paper as a single species under the name of Sus .ZEthiopicus. The observations are illustrated by two plates. The first, (tab. xviii.) gives "'a side view of the skull of the Sus ..thiopicus (half the natural size), to show the situation and appearance of the large grinder, and the remains of the alveoli belonging to the fangs of the preceding one*." rThe second (tab. xix.)gives a " side view of the skull of the young Sus Xthiopicus, to show the mode in which the grinders come forward as the large one increases in sizet." This plate includes also a side view and a transverse section of the crown of the large fullgrown grinding tooth. The conclusions drawn from the facts given are, that the Sus zthiopicus resembles the Elephant "in the whole number of grinding teeth belonging to each side of the jaw being confined in a case of bone, so as to form one largte grinding surface, and the teeth being pushed forward fiom behind, instead of a second set being formed immediately under the fangs of the first, as in other animnals; which are peculiarities not met with in any teeth hitherto described, except those of the Elephant+." The grinding teeth of the Sits .Jithiopicus are described to be " four in number on each side of the jaw"?; .... the fourth or last large tooth is considered to be a second set of teeth, which, as it advances forwards, pushes the other teeth before it;.... " the most anterior of these, as soon as its body is worn away, has its fangs removed by absorption and drops out: the same thing takes place with the second and third; and, in this way, room is made for the large one to supply the place of all the others j." The mode in which they succeed one another is stated to be illustrated by the side view of the jaw given in tab. xix., in which the fangs of the different teeth are exposed. I have shown in my 'Odontography' , that the facts detailed in HOME'S paper were insufficient to enable him to explain all the necessary circumstances respecting the curious mode of dentition of the Wart-I-Logs; that other stages of dentition, unknown to that author, had demonstrated a second set of teeth formed under the fangs of some* Philosophical Transactions, 1799, p. 256. j Ibid. p. 257. * Ibid. p. 247. ? Ibid. p. 250. 11 Ibid. p. 250. ?J Vol. i. p. 554.MDCCCL. 3 Q 482 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCHIERUS, of the first set, or above them in the upper jaw; and also that the subsequent shedding of the teeth in advance of the last large grinder was not in the order in which they are pushed out in the Elephant, the Wart-Hogs deviating very remarkably from that and all other quadrupeds in this respect. In the course of subsequent researches and comparisons, I have determined the original specimens in the British Museum and that of the Royal College of Surgeons, which were drawn and engraved to illustrate HoME'S paper, by which I have ascertained that the drawings were taken from two distinct species of Phacochwrus; and I have been able to detect certain inaccuracies in the reduced figures in the engravings, which give countenance, not afforded by the specimens themselves, to the ideas of the mode of succession of the teeth described in HOME'S paper. I propose, therefore, to give a more precise description of the subjects of the beautiful engravings, tab. xviii. and xix. of the Philosophical Transactions for 1799, and to add the additional facts and illustrations of the peculiarities of the dentition characteristic of the two species of Wart-Hog, and which determine the true number, kinds and succession of the grinding-teeth in both species. Tab. xvii. (Philosophical Transactions, 1799) gives a view of the skull of an old Phacocheerus iXliani, VAN DER HOEVEN, the common species of Nubia, Abyssinia, Senegal and Cordofan, and sometimes called the North African Wart-Hog. It is well characterized by having, when fully grown, six functional incisors in the under jaw and two incisors (i. 1.) in the upper jaw, together with forms and proportions of the other teeth, which will be subsequently adverted to. The characteristic incisors are sufficiently indicated in the figure; the large posterior grinders are alone retained in the molar series of both jaws. Tab. xix. fig. 1 (Philosophical Transactions, 1799) gives a view of the cranium of a younger individual of the Phac. Pallasii, VAN DER HOEVEN, the Wart-Hog most common, though not peculiar to the Cape and the Guinea coast districts. The molar teeth which are exposed in this figure are, taking them from before backwards, the last premolar, the symbol of which is p 4; the first true molar, m 1; the second true molar, m 2; and the last true molar, m 3. The teeth are drawn somewhat reduced in size, but not in a just proportion to the reduction of the size of the cranium and of the upper tusks; nor are the relative lengths of the crown and fangs correctly given. The crown of the first true molar, e. g., is represented of the same length as that of the fourth premolar which precedes it, and nearly of the same length as that of the second true molar, whereas in the original specimen it is much shorter in consequence of having been longer in use. Had the differences which these teeth actually show in the extent of the abrasion of their respective crowns been appreciated and duly considered, it might have excited the suspicion that the second tooth, with an almost exhausted crown and muchabsorbed fangs, would be shed before the first tooth, the summit of whose long, obtuse and cement-covered crown had only recently been subject t~o the wear of mastication. AND A DENTAL NOTATION. 483 The grinder, which is the subject of figs. 2 and 3, tab. xix., is the last molar from the right side, lower jaw, of the Phac. lEliani, of the natural size. To determine whether any successional teeth were developed above or beneath the fangs of pvc-existing teeth destined to be displaced by such development, in other words, whether a true deciduous series and a premolar series of teeth existed in the Wart-Hogs, required an examination of the jaws of an individual younger than the youngest specimen examined and figured by HOME. The subject of Plate XXXIII. fig. 1 of the present communication is of the required immaturity, and, with the other specimens to be described, supplies those links in the series which were wanting for the explanation of the entire course of the truly remarkable dentition of the genus Phacochwrus. Fig. 1 shows a side view of the teeth in the young Phac. ZEliani; the grinding surface of the molar teeth in use is given, from the upper jaw in fig. 2, and from the under jaw in fig. 3. These teeth include all the milk-molars which are developed, together with the first permanent true molar. The milk-molars are 3-3 in number in the upper jaw, and 2-2 in the lower jaw. The first true molar, m 1, is also fully developed and in use in both jaws. The summit of the second true molar (mn 2) is just appearing above the socket. The length of the skull exhibiting this instructive phase of dentition is 10 inches. The milk-molars answer to the teeth of the typical dentition symbolized by d 2, d 3, and d 4 in the upper jaw, and to d 3 and d4 in the lower jaw. The first is implanted by two fangs, the second by three, the third by four fangs; the shape of these teeth is sufficiently illustrated by the figures. Their rate of increase in size from the first to the last is considerable, yet not equal to that manifested in the true molars. Upon examining the substance of the jaws above the deciduous molars of the upper jaw and beneath those of the lower jaw, two formative alveoli and the trace of a third were detected in the upper jaw, one above d 4, containing the crown of a premolar; the other above d 3, and the rudimental cell above d 2. The matrix, which the latter might have contained, had not begun to be calcified. A small formative socket was found beneath the last milk-molar of the lower jaw containing the crown of a premolar. The gubernacular canal from this socket opened between the fangs on the inner side of the milk-tooth. A second still smaller socket of an anterior premolar was beneath the interspace between the two milk-molars. The true nature of the molar behind the mnilk-teeth in both jaws was plainly shown by its long fangs extending beyond the parallel of the formative sockets of the suc-. cessors of the milk-teeth, and widely open at their ends: this tooth has no vertical successor and is the first true molar, n 1. Only the crown of the second true molar (in 2) is formed at the stage here described; and a few detached columns of the still larger and more complex third molar (m 3) were all that were calcified in its commencing formative alveolus. 3 Q2 484 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCH(ERUS, In none of the other members of the Hog family is the first true molar (m 1) so much worn down at the corresponding early stage of development of the second true molar, and it is upon this precocious growth of the first true molar that the chief peculiarity of the order of shedding of the teeth of the Phacochleri depends. In the Phac. A-Efilnia, the penultimate and last milk-teeth (d 3, d4) in the upper jaw are displaced and succeeded by corresponding premolars, which therefore answer to p 3 and p 4 of the typical series. The anterior small inilk-grinder, d2, is sometimes succeeded by a minute pretnolar, but occasionally this is abortive, or absorbed before it cuts the gum. In the lower jaw both milk-molars (d 3 and d 4) are succeeded by the corresponding premolars p 3, p 4, at least in the Phac. .ZEliani. The stage of dentition of the Phac. iEliani, given in figs. 1, 2 and 3, corresponds with that in the Common Hog, illustrated by the teeth in the lower jaw in Plate XX. fig. 1 of the Philosophical Transactions for 1801. In that figure the last grinder in place is the first true molar, m 1; the penultimate is the last milk-molar, d4; the next is d3, the next d2; and a little in advance of this, between it and the rudimental canine, is the small anterior premolar, p 1. The germs of the other premolars, p 2, p 3 and p 4, are shown in their formative sockets beneath the deciduous teeth they are destined to replace. If the symbols above given be marked upon the teeth in the figure cited, the homologies of those in the reduced dentition of the young Wart-Hog will be readily appreciated. The teeth developed in the lower jaw of that species aren-d3., d4, p 3, p 4 and m 1: in both jaws m 2 has only its crown developed, and m 3 only the commencement of its crown. The teeth which are suppressed in tile Phac. Eliani are, in the lower jaw, d 1, d 2, p 1 and p 2. In the upper jaw d 1 and p 1 are suppressed, and sometimes also p 2. The next stage of dentition (Plate XXXIV. figs. 4 and 5) shows the shedding of the deciduous molars to be concomitant with the coming into place of the second true molar, m 2 ; it is well illustrated in the cranium of a young Phac. Alani from Senegal in the Museum of Comparative Anatomy in the Garden of Plants: in which each of the three deciduous molars of the upper jaw have been succeeded by a premolar (p 2, p 3, p 4, fig. 4), and the same with regard to the two deciduous molars in the lower jaw (p 3, p 4, fig. 5). rThe anterior angle of the crown of the last huge molar has also begun to protrude from the formative alveolus, so that the permanent or 6-6 second molar series now shows 12 6_2, which is the greatest number of grinders presented at any given time in the genus Phacoch/eras. The first true molar, mn 1, is however worn to near the fangs, and its grinding surface, as compared with that in Plate XXXIII. fig. 2, begins to be simplified. The homologies of the teeth at this period are indicated by the symbols attached to them in the figures. The stage of dentition of the young Phac. Pallasii, figured by I-IomrE in tab. xix. of his memnoir, is a little muore advanced than that of the P/mac. Pallassiiabove deAND A DENTAL NOTATION. 485, scribed; but although scarcely half the grinding surface of the last molar, m 3, has come into use, all the premnolars in advance of the last, p 4, have been shed, Plate, XXXIV. fig. 8. In the specimen of Phac. Eliani, of which the grinding surface of the teeth is figured in Plate XXXIV. figs. 6 and 7 of the present memoir, although the major part of the last large grinder is in use, the penultimate premolar (p 3) is retained as well as the last (p 4). The molar series here shows 5 -5 in the upper jaw and 4-4 in the lower jaw; their homologies are indicated by the symbols attached. By reason of the precocious development of m 1, we now find it quite worn down to the fangs; and in the lower jaw (fig. 7) it is wedged between p 4 and m 2 into a space which is twothirds less than the antero-posterior extent of the crown of the same tooth shown in the younger specimen (Plate XXXIII. fig. 2). The reduction of size of m 1 is however quite intelligible by observing the much-constricted neck from which the long fangs are continued in that specimen (see m 1, fig. 1). The figures of the grinding surface (figs. 6 and 7) suffice for the characteristic forms of the grinding-teeth now in use. The specimen of Phac. iEliani (No. 773. Mus. Coll. Chir.) shows the last remnant of mn 1 wedged into the diminished interspace between p 4 and m 2, and the corresponding interspace in the lower jaw, fiomn which such remnant of the first true molar has been shed. The skull of an older Phac. 3Eliani (No. 772) shows the displacement of the first true molar in both jaws and the reduction of the molar series to 4_3 the teeth beling p 3, p 4, n 2 and m 3 above (fig. 9), p 4, m 2 and m 3 below (fig. 10). There is no vacuitv now in the series to show a true molar to have been shed, as it has been in so unusual an order. The next stage of dentition which I have observed in this species is the loss of the anterior premolar p 3, and the great wearing down of m 2 (fig. 1 1), and in one instance in the lower jaw m 2 was shed before p 3. rThe skull of a male Phacochwirus in the British Museum*, fron the Cape de Verd, measuiring 16 inches 6 lines in length, with the incisors of the Phac. _Xliani, viz. and the same broad and shallow posterior channel upon the canines 1= shows the same numerical molar formula as No. 772, but the teeth are different in the upper jaw, they are p 3, p 4, m 2 and m 3 ; in the lower jaw they are p 3, p 4 and m 3 ; both first and second true molars being shed in this jaw, whilst the last two premolars are retained. In the skull of a female Phacochcerus, 13-1 inches in length, from South Africa, in the British Museum, but with the incisive formula of the Phac. zEliani, the molar * The term Phzacochwrus -,Ethiopicus is retained for the species represented by this skull in the British Museum. 486 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCH(ERUS, series is p -, m the teeth in both jaws being p 4, m 2 and mn 3 : here the penultimate premolar has been shed before the penultimate true molar, the socket of which however aloneindicates it in the lower jaw. In a still older specimen, p 3 and m 2 have been shed in both jaws, and the dental series is reduced to 2-2; the teeth being p 4, m 3 on each side of both jaws (fig. 12). Finally, p 4 is shed, and only the great posterior molar remains, as in the old Phac. I3liani figured in tab. xviii. of HOME'S menmoir. It is interesting and suggestive thus to observe that an analogous duration or longevity, so to speak, characterizes the last tooth of both premolar and true molar series; an analogy so little to be expected from their different size and widely different original position in the jaws, by which characters, HoME, not sufficiently extending his observations and trusting to the analogy of the Elephant, was misled. With respect to the Phac. Pallasii, my opportunities of tracing the course of dentition are not so extensive as with regard to the Phac. lEliani. I have observed none younger than the specimen figured by HOME (tab. xix.), and am not acquainted, therefore, with the characters of its deciduous dentition. All the four teeth on each side of the upper jaw of that specimen, anad there are the same number in the lower jaw, belong to the permanent series; tracing them from before backwards they are p 4, m 1, m 2 and m 3 in both jaws. The homologue of p 3 in the upper jaw of Phac. .1Eliani, if it be developed, is sooner shed in the Phac. Pallasii than in the Phac. ZEliani. From the defects that have been pointed out in HOME'S reduced figures of these teeth, more accurate views of them of the natural size may be acceptable, especially as they have not been elsewhere represented. I subjoin, therefore (Plate XXXIV. fig. 8), a side view and a view of the grinding surface of each. These figures, also, preclude the necessity of verbal description. I will only state that p 4, in the upper jaw, is implanted by three fangs, and is relatively smaller than its homologue in Phac. .ZEliani: p 4 in the lower jaw offers corresponding differences with its homologue in Phac. ZEIiani; m 2 has a narrower crown in relation to its antero-posterior extent than in Phac. .'Eliani; and a similar and more coinpressed form distinguishes the third molars in both jaws of the Phac. Pallasii. In the skull of a female Phacochoorus, called 'Haruja,' from Caffraria in the British Museum, which differs from the typical Phac. .2Jliani of North Africa in having only two incisors in each ramus of the lower jaw, the following is the dental formula:.1-1 1-] 2-2 2-2 z2-2' C1 pPlp rnm2-2 the grinders of the -upper jaw are p 3, p 4, m 2 and m 3: those of the lower jaw are p 4, m 2 and m 3. The first true molar has been shed, and its place obliterated in both jaws. AND A DENTAL NOTATION. 487 There is a stuffed skin of this species which shows the same number of incisors, 1. -1 I have seen no stage of dentition of the Pace. Pallasii corresponding with figs. 6 and 7 of Phac. AZliani. The next example, after the stage figured by HOME, is shown in a skull from the Guinea Coast, in which the grinding series includes 3-3 in both jaws, like that in the upper jaw of the Phac. Pallasii and lower jaw of the Phac. .ZEliani, figured in 'Les Dents des Mammif-res' of M. F. CUVIER Tab. 87. These teeth, in each case, are p 4,r m 2 and mn 3 on each side of both jaws. In the specimen before me, p 4 is much worn, and is pressed into close contact with m 2. The anterior half of the grinding surface of this tooth is worn down to the common dentinal base, and both the anterior and posterior surfaces of the crown are excavated by the pressure of the two contiguous teeth, as in fig. 10. That a large grinder, like M 1, figs. 4, 5 and 6, should have been interposed between the first and second grinders in the specimen here described, could never have been suspected without a knowledge of those earlier stages of the dentition of the genus which have been described. Baron CUVIER describes the molar teeth of the Phacochere as being three on each side of both jaws in the 4to edition of the 'Ossemens Fossiles' (1822)*, and the same numerical formula is retained in the posthumous 8vo edition of 1834t. With regard to the mode of succession of these teeth, the Baron adopts the conclusions of Sir EVERARD HOME; and in both editions of the cRMgne Animal,' after noticing the similarity of composition of these teeth with the grinders of the Elephant, he adds that they, in like manner, succeed one another from behind forwards+. His brother, M. FR. CUVIER, adopting the same view in the 'Dents de Mammiferes, describes the dentition of the Wart-Hogs as differing altogether from that of the rest of the Hog-tribe. "Nous voici arriv6s," he writes, "IA un systbme de dentition tout h fait diff6rent de celui des sangliers" (p. 213): he adopts the specimens represented in the pl. 87 above cited, and describes the figures of that plate as exemplifying the normal adult dentition of the genus . The anterior of the three grinders is described as the 'premi~re machelibre' (p. 214) ; and the second as Ila seconde A macheliere,' the latter being said to be composed of four tubercles, which by usage present four little elliptical or circular figures surrounded by enamel. And this, indeed, is the case at the extreme stage of attrition which he has figured; but, at an earlier period of usage, the crown of the tooth presents ten of those enamel-girted circular or elliptical islands of dentine, surrounding two, three, or four median ones (figs. 4, 56, mn 2). The last large molar presents twenty-five of these islands in the upper jaw in three linear series, nine being central, and twenty-six in the lower jaw, nine: Tom.. ii. p. 123. t Tom. iii. p. 235. + Tom. i. p. 244. ? In this he is followed by LESSON (Manuel de Mammalogie, p. 340), FIsCHER (Synopsis Mammalium, p. 423) and other systematic mammalogists, who assign molars 3-3 as one of the characters of the genus Phacockcrus. 488 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCH(ERUS, also being central, and the islands smaller and mnore regularly disposed. This tooth extends to within one or two lines of the thin compact inferior bony wall of the deep ramus of the jaw, where the constituent columns terminate in the basal openings of as many pulp-cavities, with the exception of the first four, which are blended together, and from which no root has begun to be developed. It is therefore plain that this large and singularly complex grinder will continue to serve the purposes of mastication long after the shedding of the molar in advance, and the substance of which is already wasting away by the pressure of the larger tooth. We shall see, in the next specimen, that that molar is actually worn away and shed, whilst the smaller grinder in advance of it remains. In the lower jaw of the specimen (No. 775 A.), the gum has grown over the sockets of the second true molar between the persistent remnant of the fourth premolar and the third true molar. In the upper jaw the last remnant of the second true molar remains on the right side, the crown having been worn to its base and the fangs absorbed. Thus, in the Plhac. Pallasii, as in the Phac. 2EIiani, the last of the premolar series, 'like the last of the true molar series, is distinguished by its longevity although inferiot, in this respect to the large true grinder which continues to do the work of mnastication to the end of the animal's existence. The analogy of the Phacocheres to the Elephants in the superior size, complexity, and duration of the last grinders is close and interesting; but it does not extend to the horizontal inode of succession, in other words to the absence of premolars or vertical successors of deciduous teeth, as HOME led CUVIER to believe. In the development and succession of these premnolars, and in the shape, proportions and position of the true deciduous teeth the Wart-Hogs much more closely and essentially agree with the rest of the Suidw. They differ, however, as wve have seen, in the inferior number of both milk-molars and premolars which are developed, and in the speedier loss of all the true molars in advance of the last large one; butt, in the order of shedding of those teeth, more especially in the very early displacement of the first true molar, and the total obliteration of its place in the series by the approximation of the last premolar to the second true molar, and in the subsequent displacement of this tooth with the approximation of the last premnolar to the last true Molar, the genus Phacochcerus is quite peculiar and different from all other Mainmalia. The authors who first called the attention of naturalists to the peculiarities of the dentition of the Phacocheri, has indicated another difference between the Wart-Hog and the common Flog, by affirming that the latter has a molar tooth developed behind the third true mnolar, at least in the lower jaw; which, if it were so, would have shown the common iHlog to differ, also, from almost every other placental mammal with two sets of teeth*. In the description of Plate XX. of the Philoso* The Megalotis Lalandii is the only example, as far as I have observed, of the constant occurrence of four true mnolars on each sidle the lower jaw: the typical number theree being retained above. ANMD A DENTAL NOTATION. 489 phical Transactions for 1801, HOmE states that " fig. 3 represents the jaw in a still more advanced stage of its growth, with the tooth which was only forming in the second figure now come to its full size, and in its proper place in the row of teeth: there is also a new cell formed for a succeding tooth*." The original specimen from which the figure is taken is preserved in the H-lunterian Collection, and it shows that the supposed formative cell is one of a series of the medullary cells of the cancellous structure of this part of the jaw; it is itself subdivided into smaller cells, and is not a simple cavity like the true cell of a forming tooth. It is also represented of twice its natural size in the figure cited, not having been reduced in proportion to the other parts of the jaw. The latest author onr the subject of the dentition of the Phacochwri, has ascribed to that part of their structure a character which would have added a still more remarkable anomaly to it, viz. that the last true molar represents both that tooth and the penultimate one in the Wild Boar and other herbivorous miammalst. To this conclusion M. DE BLAINVILLE was necessarily led by his determination of the antecedent teeth. Thus in a Phacochlerus with the dentition answering to that represented in figs. 4 and 5 of the present memoir, he regards the teeth marked p 3, p 4 and rn I as belonging to the deciduous series, 'dents de laity,' and the rest as belonging to the second dentition; p 2 being described as a small, speedily lost, false molar, in 2 as the first or antepenultimate true molar, and m 3 as the penultimate and last true molars, " already blended together, although not yet protruded from their formative alveolus s." With regard to the five teeth in the lower jaw, the first, p 3, is described as the first tooth of the second dentition; the two following, p 4 and m 1, as milk teeth; the fourth, m 2, as the antepenultimate molar of the second dentition, and the last, m 3, as the penultimate and last molar coalesced. The dentition ascribed to the adult Phacochiwrus is -that phase which is illustrated in figs. 9 and 10, Plate XXXIV. of the present memoir, of which the numerical formula is 3 14. M. DE BLAINVILLE, struck by the resemblance in the degree of attrition which the molar, m 2, presents to the antepenultimate molar, m 1, in the adult common IHog, deems them homologous, and deduces from that resemblance another argument for the homology of the last great molar of the Phacochere with the penultimate and last molars combined of the Hog It.* Philosophical Transactions, 1801, p. 331. t Ost6ographie des Ongulogrades, Hippopotamu$ and Sus, 4to, 1847. + Ibid. p. 148. ? Ibid. p. 148. 1 "Mais quelle est la signification de cette dent par rapport a ce qui existe chez la sanglier ? C'est la une question qui, malgre son interet, n'a pas meme encore ete soullevee. "J'ai cru un moment qu'on pourrait la considerer comme representant les trois arriere-molaires qui se seraient soudees de manieire 'a n'en former qu'une, les trois molaires qui la precedent etant alors celles de remplacement. Cette fagon de voir 6tait surtout appuyee sur la composition de cette dent 'a la mandibule oui l'on peut voir dans les cannelures laterales des separations plus marquees, paraissant indiquer l'antep6nultieme, la pe'nultieme et la dernibre avec sou talon. "Mais en reflechissant sur le caractere serial des especes de ce genre, il m'a semble que cette opinion devaitMDCCCL. 3 R 490 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THEE DENTITION OFF PHACOCHCERUS, But had the preceding stage of dentition, which is represented in fig. 7, Plate XXXIV, presented itself to the observation of M. D:E BLAINVILLE, that acute observer would doubtless have seen that m 1,-the true homologue of the, much-worn antepenultimate molar of the common Hog,-presented the same abraded condition. And the actual difference is as follows, viz. that, owing to its earlier development in the Phali. cochcerus, the true antepenultimate molar, m 1, is sooner worn out and shed; whilst; from the very long period during which the last molar is adapted to perform the. work of mastication, the penultimate molar, m2, undergoes the same exhaustive, usage and premature expulsion. I have figured in parallel juxtaposition the molar series of a Phacochere and a Wild Boar, in plate 141 of my 'Odontography,' to illustrate the corresponding extent of abrasion in the first or antepenultinate true molar (rn 1) at the period when the last true molar has come into place in the Wart-IHog, and when two of the premolar series are retained; and I have indicated my conclusions as to the signification or homology of each of the teeth by the symbols, the aptness and exactitude of which all my later researches have convinced me of.. With regard to the deciduous teeth of the Phacochere and other diphyodont mammals, I may remark that there is but one mode of determining and of distinguishing them from the premolars and true molars of the second dentition, in cases where some of the latter are obviously pre6-6 sent, as in the young Phacochere with a grinding series of j-6 (see figs. 4 and 5) or of 45 (as in Plate XXXIII.): that mode is to excavate the substance of the jaws above the fangs of the upper teeth and beneath those of the lower ones, as in the skull represented in Plate XXXIII., and in the lower jaw figured in my 'O dontograplhy,' pl. 141, fig. I*. The deciduous tooth is demonstrated by the formativeetre modifi6e, et que dans cette dent iR ne fallait voir que les deux dernieres, et alors la terminale aurait son talon-dans la proportion convenable. "Ce qui milite encore en faveur de cette maniere devoir, c'est que la dent sur laquelle porte davantage l'usure dans le sanglier, l'ant6p6nultieme ou cinquieme, a son analogue chez le sanglier d'Ethiopie dans la dent qui precede la dent complexe, et qui serait en effet l'antepenultibme, celle-ci representant la penultieZme soud6e a` la dernibre.-Loc. cit.n p. 148. * "Le systeme dentaire de cet animal a ete fort incomple'tement figure sans description par EVERARD HOME (Lect. on Comp. Anatom. t. 11. pl. .38 et 39), M. G. CUVIER lui a consacre un court paragraphe (Ossem. Foss.. t. 11. p. 132, sans figures), et M. OWEN s'est borne 'a representer la couronne des molaires superieures du cote droit (Odontographie, pl. 140, fig. 31), mais personne n'en a soupconn6 la signification." M. DE BLAINVILLE had overlooked pl. 141, where that signification is given: but he adds in a supplementary note,-" I1 releve, comme inexacte, l'assertion de M. RUPPELL, que dans tous les individus des deux. sexes, jeunes et adultes, il y a quatre molaires en haut et trois en bas; et en effet il en decrit une de plus, en reconnaissant que dans la premiere dentition iR n'y en a que trois 'a la machoire et deux 'a la mandibule. Du reste M. R. OWEN accepte la distinction sp6cifique du S. Ai~iani et du S. Pallasii; le premier pourvu et le second depourvu de dents incisives, mais sans autres diff6rences vraiment specifiques." If, however, the difference cited be of specific value, as M. Dyh BLAINVILLE seems here to admit, others were not needed for accepting the conclusion. I may, however, add that the upper canines of the Phac. Pallasii have the groove on their upper surface narrower than in the Phac, lEliani, and that the premolars are relatively smaller. AND A DENTAL NOTATION. 1 socket containing the germ of its successor in a vertical line with it; this is -more especially the case with the last or hindmost -deciduous tooth, because the hindmost premolar, its successor, is late in coming into place,and the contiguous true molar, which is always formed much sooner, is characterized by its deeply implanted fangs, and by the absence.of any formative socket in vertical relation to. them. Without the dissection of the jaws figured in Plate XXXIII., I could have had no true or scientific knowledge of the nature of the teeth there -symbolized. As I availed myself of symbols to denote the signification or homology of the teeth of the Phacochwrus in my 'Odontography' (pages 549 to 557, pl. 140, 141), 1 shall sum up or indicate in the same way the results of the additional observations recorded in .the foregoing pages. Phases of the molar series of the genus Phacochoerus. Phase I. Plate XXXIII. 5 fi d2, d3,d4, ml,m2. 4-4 1d3,d4,ml,m2. II. Plate XXXIV. figs. 4 and 5, I V p3,p ml, m2 m3 6*6 5 fp3,p4, ml, m2, m 3. III. Plate XXX1V. figs. 6 and 7,viz. I m 1 m2 m3 IVT. Plate XXgXIV. fig. 13 (Phac. Pallasii), 4_4 viz. p 4, m 1, m 2, m 3. 4-4 p p3,p 4.,m 1,m2, m3 rr3,,2m V. Plate XXXIV. figs. 9 and 10, _ viz. 14 9n2 3 (?r123',4 3 / VI. Plate XXXIV. fig. 11, 3-3aviz.P 4, mP2, m3. VII. Plate XXXIV. fig.12, 9 a viz. 4,m3. o VIII. 11 viz. m 3. 1-1 The above symbols express, with regard to the first phase, 1. e. g., that there are five grinders on each side of the upper jaw, and four grinders on each side of the under jaw: that those above answer to the second, third, and fourth deciduous molars, and to the first and second permanent true molars; and that those below answer to the third and fourth deciduous molars, and to the first and second true molars,'-of the typical dentition. With regard to the second phase, the symbols express that there are six grinders on each side of the upper, and five grinders on each side of the under jaw: those above answering to the second, third and fourth preDolars, and to the first, second and third true molars; those below answering to the third and fourth premolars, and the first, second and third true molars-of the typical dentition. As to the fourth phase with four grinders on each side of both jaws, these, answer, 3 R2 492 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCH(ERUS, in both, to the fourth premolar, and to the first, second and third true molars of the typical dentition of the placental Diphyodonts. These explanations will serve to render the symbols of the remaining phases readily understood by those who may not have studied the principles of dental notation which I communicated to the ' British Association' in 1848, and have more fully exemplified in the article ' Teeth' of the I Cyclopeedia of Anatomy and Physiology ;' their utility will be obvious when they are found to express, in a few lines, facts in Comparative Anatomy which would require almost as many pages if recounted by ordinary description. This system of anatomical notation is the practical fruit of the discovery or determination of a type or common pattern of dentition to which the teeth of a certain proportion of the Animal Kingdom could he referred, and of a concomitant attainment of the power to trace a particular tooth under every modification and disguise of size and shape, throughout the different species of those animals. Every tooth, thus capable of being individualized and determined, merits and, for the purposes of description, requires to have a proper name, and can be signified by a symbol, which is still more convenient for those purposes. The dental system manifests this regular and determinable character in a large proportion of the mamnaalian Class; but not in any animal of inferior organization. Like the definition of a species, the definition of a tooth or other part of an organism becomes possible only when its characters are constant and definite, and is easy in proportion as those qualities are exalted. The definition of a mineral species is more difficult than that of a vegetable species, and the definition of a species of low cellular plant is more difficult than that of the highlv organized dicotyledon. In proportion as wholes rise in the scale of nature or of life, their recognition and definition becomes easier, and the like obtains also of their parts. As animals ascend in the scale of complexity their organs and parts become more definite; and homologies are more extensively, easily and satisfactorily determinable. We cannot point out in one species of Echinus the answerable spine of any given spine in another species, nor can we determine the homology of a tufted foot from one species of the many-jointed Annelides to another; but in insects each particular leg may be determined through all its modifications of form and function throughout the class. So, likewise, with the teeth: the same individual tooth cannot be traced from fish to fish, or from reptile to reptile; the teeth in the cold-blooded classes differ too much in their number in different individuals, and too little in their development and succession, to yield the requisite characters to the :homologist who keeps his faculty of comparison under due control. In those Mamtrmalia, likewise, as e. g. the Cachalots, Dolphins and Armadillos, in which the teeth are very variable in number and often very numerous, but without any definite order of shedding and replacement, no particular tooth can be identified and traced from one species to .another . AND A DENTAL NOTATION. 493 The class Mammalia presents,, in fact, two primary conditions of the dental system, according to which it might be divided into,1st. Those that generate one set of teeth, or the ' Mono phyodonts *,' and 2nd. Those that generate two sets. or 'Diphyodonts+.' The 'Monophyodonts' include the orders Monotremata and Bruta (or the Edentata of CuvIER) and the Cetacea vera of CUVIER. The Diphyodonts include the Marsupialia, Rodentia, Insectivora, Cizeiroptera, Ruminantia, Pachydermata, Sirenia, CJarnivora, Quadrumnana and Bimana. I would not be misunderstood, however, as proposing this difference as a basis of classification: such dental characters are associated with too few corresponding differences of organization to lead to a natural binary division of -the Mammalia. But, as regards the philosophy of the organs in question, considered in that class, the differences above enunciated form one of the highest generalizations, and the exigencies of clear and brief description require such general ideas to have their appropriate signs or names. The Diphyodont Mammals, then, are characterized by having a first set of teeth, commonly called the ' milk-teeth' or ' deciduous teeth,' and a second set called the 'permanent teeth.' But the development of the latter, in relation to the. milk-teeth, presents two modifications; some of the permanent teeth are found in the same vertical line with the milk-teeth, push them out and take their Iplace; others are formed one after another behind the milk-teeth, in what relay be called the same horizontal line, and come into place without pushing out any deciduous predecessors. Here, therefore, we have certain characters from development for particular teeth, and when to these characters are added others of equal constancy, derived from relative position, it will be readily understood how such characters, xvhen clearly appreciable and firmly maintained through a series of comparisons, should enable the homologist to point out the very tooth in Man which becomes the great carnassial tooth in the jaw of the Tiger or the great complex grinder in that of the Wart-Hog. With respect to the accessory characters, one of the best is afforded by the relation of certain teeth to the constituent dentigerous bones of the complex jaws. Implantation in the premaxillary bone, orpremaxillary part of the upper jaw, e. g., characterizes the tooth called 'incisor,' whatever be its shape orsize; and the true and constant character of such tooth being thus determined, the name 'incisor' becomes its arbitrary sign and loses all its primitive signification as descriptive of a particular shape or use. In like manner the tooth at the fore part of the maxilla, o0 the maxillarv part of the upper jaw which coalesces with the prenmaxilla in Man, is called the ' canine.' The molar series, according to the characters of development and succession above described, is divided into 'milk-miolars,' ' premolars' and ' true molars.' The two ]later kinds constitute the adult or permanent set of molars. Now these, ill the diphyodont mnamnmals, do 7-7 not exceed 7=28, i. e. seven on each side of both jaws. In the marsupial Diphy* Mowos once; fvuw tgenerate; 6o~os, tooth. e twice; fvi' and ~oios. 494 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCHCERUS, odonts three of the seven on, each side of both jaws are ' premolars,' four are ' true molars.' In the placental Diphyodonts four of the seven on each -side of both jaws are ' premolars,' and three are c true molars.' The exceptions, by way of excess to this typical number, are few and are confined to the marsupial order, e. g. in the Myrmecobius: the deviations from the -type by deficiency are -numerous, especially in the placental series. But to whatever point the number may be reduced, the teeth that are retained may be identified with their homologues in the typical series. This power is fortunately given by the constancy in respect of their existence of the contiguous teeth of the premolar and molar series those, e. g. marked p 4 and m 1 in Plate XXXIII.; and by the absent teeth being taken from a definite part of each of those series, viz. from the fore part of the premolars and from the back part of the true molar series. The Bears and some Carnivora offer a partial exception in the occasional retention of p 1 when p 2 and p 3 may be absent, but p 4 is constantly present. Thus it needs only to determine, in any given species of diphyodont mammal, the last premolar and the first true molar, as has been done in the young Phacochere, Plate XXXIII., in order to know the homologies of the rest. The true molars are counted from before backwards first,' 'second,' 'third:' the premolars from behind forwards,-'fourth,' third,"' second,' first,' or as far as the series may extend. In Man, e. g. it stops at the third; the first and second, which exist in the Hog, being absent, but all the true molars are present. The teeth being thus determined their symbols can be applied to them, ;m 1, m 2, m 3, for the molars,-p 4, p 3, p 2, p 1, for the premolars. It needs only to apply the symbols to one side of each jaw, the teeth being symmetrically repeated on the opposite side: and in most cases they are alike in both jaws. The right canine is the homotype of the left canine, as the right arm is of the left arm, agreeably -with the principle of 'bilateral symmetry:' the first true molar in the lower jaw is the homotype of the first true molar of the uipper jaw, as the leg is the homotype of the arm, in accordance with the law of the composition of the vertebrate framework of a successive series of essentially similar segments. In whatever direction or to whatever degree two or more of these segments may deviate from the type, the same elements may be discerned in them beneath those modifications. If the neural arch be vastly expanded, as in the cranial vertebra of mammals, we trace the broad and bifid neural spine from one to the other, and recognise, e. g. the frontal bones and parietal bones as homotypal elements. If the diverging appendages be the seat of adaptive development, as in the occipital and pelvic vertebrae. we find the same plan of modification is followed, and we can trace the hormotypal parts, e. g. humerus and femur, radius and tibia, ulna and fibula, carpus and tarsus, as also the homotypal ossicles in the carpus and tarsus, even when the common plan is so varied in such appendages, as to produce the different powers and functions which characterize the leg and the arm in Man. So, likewise, wshen two costal arches are converted into jaws and made to support teeth, we find the same laws of developmnent so strictly followed as to enable us to AND ADENTAL NOTATION. 495 determine the homotypal: teeth in those two jaws with the same certainty as the homologous teeth in the jaws of different species. When the mouth is shut the teeth in the lower jaw are a, little in advance of their homotypes in, the upper jaw; thus in the Carnivora the great canine tooth of the lower jaw always passes in front of the canine above. Even in the human subject this characteristici relative position is shown by the molars andpremolars, when the upper incisors are produced beyond the lower ones. The existing species of Mammalia that retain the: typical formula of dentition, viz. .3-3 1-1 4-4 3-3 X 3,C1_1P i__4 m 3 -3 are few: but that formula was much less frequently departed from in the species of placental Manmmalia which were first introduced into this planet. This is a very significant fact, and became manifest in the course of working out such typical formula by tracing and comparing the development of the teeth in the recent species. In the oldest known strictly carnivorous mammal, e. g. the Hycnodon, remains of which have been discovered in the newer eocene deposits of Hampshire, and in the iniocene formations of France, the complete typical dentition is retained, and each of the three true molars presents the peculiar trenchant form of crown which characterizes the single tooth called by CUvIER 'le dent carnassiere' in the Lion: here, therefore, we use the ternI 'molarr' in the same technical or arbitrary sense as the term ; incisor' when applied to the tusks of the Elephant or the prongs of the Hip-. popotamus. In the mixed-feeding Amphicyon, ae larger extinct miocene Carnivore' allied to the Plantigrades, the three true molars have broad tuberculate crowns. Almost all the herbivorous genera of the eocene and miocene tertiary periods had the typical number and kinds of teeth, as, e. g., Anoplotherium, Palcotheri'um, Dichodon, Chwropotamus, Dichobune, Anthracotheriurn, Hyopotarnus, Ilracotherium, Oplotherium,, Merycopotamus, Hippohyus, &c. When a modern genus or family has been represented as far back as the miocene period by extinct species, it is usual to find some nearer approach made bv such species to the typical dentition than is made by the existing species. 'Thus, in existing Ruminants, the first premolar is suppressed; but in the ancient Dorcatheriuan it was retained. In the modern Hippopotami the incisors are reduced to -, and the first premolar is speedily lost; in the oldest known representatives of the genus-the Hexaprotodon of the Himalayan tertiary beds-the 3-3 incisors were in the typical number _ as the natne imposed upon it by its discoverers, CAUTLEY and FALCONER, indicates, and the first premolar was long retained; the whole dentition, in short, presented the typical formula. The existing species of the gigantic Proboscidian family, viz. the Asiatic and African Elephants, are totally devoid of incisors in the lower jaw, and all their grinding-teeth succeed each other horizontally; so that it is only by a more than proportional in496 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCHERUS, crease of size that the antepenultimate grinder is recognizable as the first of the true molar series, and the antecedent smaller grinders as the homologues of the milkmolars of other Diphyodonts, which milk-molars have no vertical successors in the Elephants. In certain Mastodons, however, which are the earliest known forms of the Proboscidian family, the last milk-molar was displaced by a vertical successor or premolar. Two incisors, moreover, were developed in the lower jaw of the young Mastodons, one of which was retained in the male of the Mastodon giganteus of North America, and both in that of the Mastodon longirostris of Europe. The human dentition deviates firom the typical formula by the suppressed development of several teeth; as might. be anticipated from the characteristic shortness of the jaws, which is such as only to allow space for the comparatively few, teeth retained, in close juxtaposition, without any break in the series. The numerical formnula is .2-2 1-1 2-2 3-3 ?2_-2 1 gI P J2-.' 3-3 ; the principal phases in the development of this dentition may be symbolized as follows: I. 3 years old, i2-2 1-1 2-2 I. yarsol., 2 2, C f-f, m2=20; all of the deciduous series, the molars answering to d3 and d4 of the typical dentition. II. 7 years old, j 2-2 1-1 3-3 II. yersol 21 c i-I' m-3=24; thle molars being d3, d4, mn 1. III. 10 to 12 years old, (2-2 -1 3-3 the molars being p 3, p 4, m 1, and the milk incisors and canines replaced by the permanent ones. 2-2 1-1 4-4 IV. 12 to 16 years old, i c j, m n 4=28, viz. p 3, p 4, m l, en 2. 2-2 1-1 5 -5 V. 18 to 30 years old,2c11, m 5 5 =32, iz. p 3, p 4, Mi4n 2, m 3. The teeth which are wanting in Man to complete the typical formula are i 3, p 1 and p 2. The teeth in Man which answer to the carnassials of the Lion and other Ferve are p 4 in the upper jaw, or the second bicuspis of human anatomy, and n I 'in the lower jaw, or tile first multicuspid molar. The tooth which is homologous to the great complex mnolar of the Wart-Hog is m 3 in both jaws. The symbols here proposed to denote the kinds of teeth are, it is hoped, so plain and simple as to present no obstacle to the ready comprehension of the facts which have been recorded by means of them. Had those faicts been explained by means of the usual phrases or definitions of the teeth, e. g. "' the second deciduous Molar repre4~~~~~~~Y 2 / I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 Fits. 4 ~ ~~ ~ I-'' ": '"'' tXI ve~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 a, P--, ra's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ call~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ftv ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ? LAM16 50rn-i p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ , t~~~~~~~~~( -~~~~~~~~~A1 gb.. 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 2, 6 3m P n; 4 Sm~~~p7/~~~~~~~~~~~7Z Pon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ IE7Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2~~~~~~~M day,, e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~ 2 I~~< z 7 ~~~~ w 12?bar If Tiu~,2%, LII KPh JK uldSi AND A DENTAL NOTATION. 497 senting the fourth of the typical dentition," instead of d 4, and so on, the descriptions must have run to much greater length, and have levied such a tax upon the attention and memory as to have proportionally enfeebled the judgment and impaired the power of seizing and appreciating the results of the comparisons. Each year's experience strengthens my conviction that the rapid and successful progress of anatomy depends greatly on the determination of the nature or homology of the parts observed, and on the concomitant acquisition of the power of denoting them by symbols equivalent to their single substantive names. In my work on the 'Archetype of the Vertebrate Skeleton, I have denoted most of the bones by simple numerals, which, if generally adopted, might take the place of names: and all the propositions, e. g. relative to the centrutn of the occipital vertebra, might be predicated as effectually and intelligibly of the figure 1 as of the word 'basioccipital.' The symbols of the teeth are fewer, are easily understood and remembered, render unnecessary the endless repetition of the verbal definition of the parts, harmonize conflicting synonyms, serve as a universal language, and express the author's meaning in the fewest and clearest terms. The Entomologist has long found the advantage of such signs as dC and , signifying male and female, and the like; and it is time that the Anatomist should avail himself of this powerful instrument of thought, instruction and discovery, from which the Chemist, the Astronomer and the Geometrician have obtained such important results. DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES. PLATE XXXIII. Fig. 1. Side view of the skull of a very young Phacochwrus UEliani, natural size, with the outer walls of the alveoli removed to expose the deciduous molars, premolars and true molars, in situ. Fig. 2. The grinding series, composed of milk-molars and true molars, from the upper jaw. Fig. 3. The same from the lower jaw. (The symbols are explained in the text.) PLATE XXXIV. Fig. 4. Grinding surface and side view of the crowns of the molar series of the upper jaw of a young Phacochwrus Altiani. Fig. 5. Grinding surface and side view of the crowns of the molar series of the lower jaw of the same skull. MDCCCL. 3 s 498 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE DENTITION OF PHACOCHCERUS. Fig. 6. View of tbe grinding surface of the upper molar series of a full-grown but young Phacochwrus iEliani. Fig. 7. A similar view of the molar series of the lower jaw of the same specimen. Fig. 8. Side view and view of the grinding surface of the molar series of a similarly aged Phacochwrus Pallasii. Fig. 9. View of the grinding surface of the upper molar series of an older Phacochmrus .iXliani. Fig. 10, Similar view of the lower molar series of the same animal. Fig. 11. View of the grinding surface of the upper 'Molar series of an older Phacochwrus Pallasii. Fig. 12. Similar view of the upper molar series of a still older Phacochwrus AEliani. (The symbols are explained in the text, especially at p. 491. 