263 1 XIV. Experimental Researches in Electricity.Tenth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, D. C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Corr. Mernb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Sgc. 8Sc. Received June 16,-Read June 18, 1835. ? 16. On an improved form of the Voltaic Battery. ? 17. Some practical results respecting the construction and use of the Voltaic Battery. 1119. I HAVE lately had occasion to examine the voltaic trough practically, with a view to improvements in its construction and use; and though I do not pretend that the results have anything like the importance which attaches to the discovery of a new law or principle, I still think they are valuable, and may therefore, if briefly told, and in connexion with former papers, be worthy the approbation of the Royal Society. ? 16. On an improvedform of the Voltaic Battery. 1120. In a simple voltaic circuit (and the same is true of the battery) the chemical forces which, during their activity, give power to the instrument, are generally divided into two portions; the one of these is exerted locally, whilst the other is transferred round the circle (947. 996.); the latter constitutes the electric current of the instrument, whilst the former is altogether lost or wasted. The ratio of these two portions of power may be varied to a great extent by the influence of circumstances: thus, in a battery not closed, all the action is local; in one of the ordinary construction, much is in circulation when the extremities are in communication; and in the perfect one, which I have described (1001.), all the chemical power circulates and becomes electricity. By referring to the quantity of zinc dissolved from the plates (865. 1126.), and the quantity of decomposition effected in the volta-electrometer (711. 1126.) or elsewhere, the proportions of the local and transferred actions under any particular circumstances can be ascertained, and the efficacy of the voltaic arrangement, or the waste of chemical power at its zinc plates, be accurately determined. 1121. If a voltaic battery were constructed of zinc and platina, the latter metal, surrounding the former, as in the double copper arrangement, and the whole being excited by dilute sulphuric acid, then no insulating divisions of glass, porcelain, or ,air would be required between the contiguous platina surfaces; and, provided these did not touch metallically, the same acid which, being between the zinc and platina, would excite the battery into powerful action, would, between the two surfaces of MDcccxxxv. 2 M 264 DR. FARADAY' S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. platina, produce no discharge of the electricity, nor cause any diminution of the power of the trough. This is a necessary consequence of the resistance to the passage of the current which I have shown occurs at the place of decomposition (1007. 101 1.) for that resistance is fullv able to stop the current, and therefore act as insulation to the electricity of the contiguous plates, inasmuch as the current which tends to pass between them never has a higher intensity than that due to the action of a single pair. 1 122. If the metal surrounding the zinc be copper (1045.), and if the acid be nitro.sulphuric acid (1020.), then a slight discharge between the two contiguous coppers does take place, provided there be no other channel open by which the forces may circulate; but when such a channel is permitted, the return discharge of which I speak is exceedingly diminished, in accordance with the principles laid down in the eighth series of these Researches. 1123. Guided by these principles I was led to the construction of a voltaic trough, in which the coppers, passing round both surfaces of the zincs, as in WOLLASTON'S construction, should not be separated from each other except by an intervening thickness of paper, or in some other way, so as to prevent metallic contact, and should thus constitute an instrument compact, powerful, economical, and easy of use. On examining, however what had been done before, I found that the new trough was in all essential respects the same as that invented and described by Dr. HARE, Professor in the University of Pennsylvania, to whom I have great pleasure in referring it. 1124. Dr. HARE has fully described his trough*. In it the contiguous copper plates are separated by thin veneers of wood, and the acid is poured on to, or off, the plates by a quarter revolution of an axis, to which both the trough containing the plates, and another trough to collect and hold the liquid, are fixed. This arrangement I have found the most convenient of any, and have therefore adopted it. My zinc plates were cut from rolled metal, and when soldered to the copper plates had the form, delineated, fig. 1. These were then bent over a gauge into the form. fig. 2, and when packed in the wooden box constructed to receive them, were arranged as in fig. 3t, little plugs of cork being used to keep the zinc plates from touching the Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 1. copper plates, and a single or double thickness of cartridge paper being interposed* Philosophical Magazine, 1824, vol. lxiii. p. 241; or SILLIMAN'S Journal, vol. vii. See also a previous paper by Dr. HARE, Annals of Philosophy, 1821, vol. i. p. 329, in which he speaks of the non-necessity of insulation between the coppers. t The papers between the coppers are, for the sake of distinctness, omitted in the figure. ESTIMATION OF VOLTAIC ENERGY BY EQUIVALENTS OF ACTION AND EFFECT. 265 between the contiguous surfaces of copper to prevent them from coming in contact. Such was the facility afforded by this arrangement, that a trough of forty pairs of plates could be unpacked in five minutes, and repacked again in half an hour; and the whole series was not more than fifteen inches in length. 1125. This trough, of forty pairs of plates three inches square, was compared, as to the ignition of a platina wire, the discharge between points of charcoal, the shock on the human frame, &c., with forty pails of four-inch plates having double coppers, and used in porcelain troughs divided into insulating cells, the strength of the acid employed to excite both being the same. In all these effects the former appeared quite equal to the latter. On comparing a second trough of the new construction, containing twenty pairs of four-inch plates, with twenty pairs of four-inch plates in porcelain troughs, excited by acid of the same strength, the new trough appeared to surpass the old one in producing these effects, especially in the ignition of wire. 1126. In these experiments the new trough diminished in its energy much more rapidly than the one on the old construction, and this was a necessary consequence of the smaller quantity of acid used to excite it, which in the case of the forty pairs new construction was only one seventh part of that used for the forty pairs in the porcelain troughs. To compare, therefore, both forms of the voltaic trough in their decomposing powers, and to obtain accurate data as to their relative values, experiments of the following kind were made. The troughs were charged with a known quantity of acid of a known strength; the electric current was passed through a voltaelectrometer (711.) having electrodes 4 inches long and 2-3 inches in width, so as to oppose as little obstruction as possible to the current; the gases evolved were collected and measured, and gave the quantity of water decomposed. Then the whole of the charge used was mixed together, and a known part of it analysed, by being precipitated and boiled with excess of carbonate of soda, and the precipitate well washed, dried, ignited, and weighed. In this way the quantity of metal oxidized and dissolved by the acid was ascertained; and the part removed from each zinc plate, or from all the plates, could be estimated and compared with the water decomposed in the volta-electrometer. To bring these to one standard of comparison, I have reduced the results so as to express the loss at the plates in equivalents of zinc for the equivalent of water decomposed at the volta-electrometer: I have taken the equivalent number of water as 9, and of zinc as 32 5, and have considered 100 cubic inches of the mixed oxygen and hydrogen, as they were collected over a pneumatic trough, to result from the decomposition of 12'68 grains of water. 1127. The acids used in these experiments were three,-sulphuric, nitric, and muriatic. The sulphuric acid was strong oil of vitriol; one cubical inch of it was equivalent to 486 grains of marble. The nitric acid was very nearly pure; one cubical inch dissolved 150 grains of marble. The muriatic acid was also nearly pure, and one cubical inch dissolved 108 grains of marble. These were always mixed with water by volumes, the standard of volume being a cubical inch. 2M 2 266 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. 1128. An acid was prepared consisting of 200 parts water, 41 parts sulphuric acid) and 4 parts nitric acid; and with this both my trough, containing forty pairs of threeinch plates, and four porcelain troughs, arranged in succession, each containing ter pairs of plates with double coppers four inches square, were charged. These two batteries were then used in succession, and the action of each was allowed to continue for twenty or thirty minutes, until the charge was nearly exhausted, the connexion with the volta-electrometer being carefully preserved during the whole time, and the acid in the troughs occasionally mixed together. In this way the former trough acted so well, that for each equivalent of water decomposed in the volta-electrometer only from 2 to 2-5 equivalents of zinc were dissolved from each plate. In four experiments the average was 2'21 equivalents for each plate, or 88'4 for the whole battery. In the experiments with the porcelain troughs, the equivalents of consumption at each plate were 3'54, or 141V6 for the whole battery. In a perfect voltaic battery of forty pairs of plates (991. 1001.) the consumption would have been one equivalent for each zinc plate, or forty for the whole. 1129. Similar experiments were made with two voltaic batteries, one containing twenty pairs of four-inch plates, arranged as I have described (1124.), and the other twenty pairs of four-inch plates in porcelain troughs. The average of five experiments with the former was a consumption of 3'7 equivalents of zinc from each plate, or 74 from the whole: the average of three experiments with the latter was 5-5 equivalents from each plate, or 110 from the whole: to obtain this conclusion, two experiments were struck out, which were much against the porcelain troughs, and in which some unknown deteriorating influence was supposed to be accidentally active. In all the experiments, care was taken not to compare new and old plates together, as that would have introduced serious errors into the conclusions (1146.). 1130. When ten pairs of the new arrangement were used, the consumnption of zinc at each plate was 6-76 equivalents, or 67-6 for the whole. With ten pairs of the cornmon construction, in a porcelain trough, the zinc oxidized was upon an average, 15'5 equivalents each plate, or 155 for the entire trough. 1 131. No doubt, therefore, can remain of the equality or even the great superiority of this form. of voltaic battery over the best previously in use, namely, that with double coppers, in which the cells are insulated. The insulation of the coppers may therefore be dispensed with; and it is that circumstance which principally permits of such other alterations in the construction of the trough as gives it its practical advantages. 1132. The advantages of this form of trough are very numerous and great. i. It is exceedingly compact, foi 100 pairs of plates need not occupy a trough of more than three feet in length. ii. By Dr. HARES plan of making the trough turn upon copper pivots which rest upon copper bearings, the latter afford fxied terminations; and these I have found it very convenient to connect with two cups of mercury, fastened in the front of the stand of tihe instrument. These fixed terminations give ADVANTAGES OF HARE'S TROUGH. 267 the great advantage of arranging an apparatus to be used in connexion with the battery before the latter is put into action. iii. The trough is put into readiness for use in an instant, a single jug of dilute acid being sufficient for the charge of 100 pairs of four-inch plates. iv. On making the trough pass through a quarter of a revolution, it becomes active, and the great advantage is obtained of procuring for the experiment the effect of the first contact of the zinc and acid, which is twice or sometimes even thrice that which the battery can produce a minute or two after (1036. 1150.). v. When the experiment is completed, the acid can be at once poured from between the plates, so that the battery is never left to waste during an unconnected state of its extremities; the acid. is not unnecessarily exhausted; the zinc is not uselessly consumed; and, besides avoiding these evils, the charge is mixed and rendered uniform, which produces a great and good result (1039.); and, upon proceeding to a second experiment, the important effect of first contact is again obtained. vi. The saving of zinc is very great. It is not merely that, whilst in action, the zinc performs more voltaic duty (1128. 1129.), but all the destruction which takes place with the ordinary forms of battery between the experiments is prevented. This saving is of such extent, that I estimate the zinc in the new form of battery to be thrice as effective as that in the ordinary form. vii. The importance of this saving of metal is not merely that the value of the zinc its saved, but that the battery is much lighter and more manageable; and also that the surfaces of the zinc and copper plates may be brought much nearer to each other when the battery is constructed, and remain so until it is worn out: the latter is a very important advantage (1148.). viii. Again, as, in consequence of the saving, thinner plates will perform the duty of thick ones, rolled zinc may be used; and I have found rolled zinc superior to cast zinc in action; a superiority which I incline to attribute to its greater purity (1144.). ix. Another advantage is obtained in the economy of the acid used, which is proportionate to the diminution of the zinc dissolved. x. The acid also is more easily exhausted, and is in such sniall quantity that there is never any occasion to return an old charge into use. Such old acid, whilst out of use, often dissolves portions of copper from the black flocculi usually mingled with it, which are derived from the zinc; now any portion of copper in solution in the charge does great harm, because, by the local action of the acid and zinc, it tends to precipitate upon the latter, and diminish its voltaic efficacy (1145.). xi. By using a due mixture of nitric and sulphuric acid for the charge (1139.), no gas is evolved from the troughs; so that a battery of several hundred pairs of plates mnay, without inconvenience, be close to the experimenter. xii. If, during a series of experiments, the acid becomes exhausted, it can be withdrawn, and replaced by other acid with the utmost facility; and after the experiments are concluded, the great advantage of easily washing the plates is at command. And it appears to me, that in place of making, under different circumstances, mutual sacrifices of comfort, powver, and economy, to obtain a desired end, all are at once obtained by Dr. IIARE'S foVrm of trough. 268 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. 1133. But there are some disadvantages which I have not yet had time to overcome, though I trust they will finally be conquered. One is the extreme difficulty of making a wooden trough constantly water-tight under the alternations of wet and dry to which the voltaic instrument is subject. To remedy this evil, Mr. NEWMAN is now engaged in obtaining porcelain troughs. The other disadvantage is a precipitation of copper on the zinc plates. It appears to me to depend mainly on the circumstance that the papers between the coppers retain acid when the trough is emptied; and that this acid slowly acting on the copper, forms a salt, which gradually mingles with the next charge, and is reduced on the zinc plate by the local action (1120.): the power of the whole battery is then reduced. I expect that by using slips of glass to separate the coppers at their edges, their contact can be sufficiently prevented, and the space between them be left so open that the acid of a charge can be poured and washed out, and so be removed from every part of the trough when the experiments in which it is used are completed. 1134. The actual superiority of the troughs which I have constructed on this plan, I believe to depend, first and principally, on the closer approximation of the zinc and copper surfaces ;-in my troughs they are only one tenth of an inch apart (1148.);and, next, on the superior quality of the rolled zinc above the cast zinc used in the construction of the ordinary pile. It cannot be that insulation between the contiguous coppers is a disadvantage, but I do not find that it is any advantage; for when, with both the forty pairs of three-inch plates and the twenty pairs of four-inch plates, I used papers well imbibed with wax*., these being so large that when folded at the edges they wrapped over each other, so as to make cells as insulating as those of the porcelain troughs, still no sensible advantage in the chemical action was obtained. 11 35. As, upon principle, there must be a discharge of part of the electricity from the edges of the zinc and copper plates at the sides of the trough, I should prefem-, and intend having, troughs constructed with a plate or plates of crown glass at the sides of the trough: the bottom will need none, though to glaze that and the ends would be no disadvantage. The plates need not be fastened in, but only set in their places; nor need they be in large single pieces. ? 17. Some practical results respecting the construction and use of the Voltaic Battery. 1136. The electrochemical philosopher is well acquainted with some practical results obtained from the voltaic battery by MM. GAY-LussAc and THENARD, and given in the first forty-five pages of their 'Recherches Physico-Chimiques. Although the following results are generally of the same nature, yet the advancement made in this branch of science of late years, the knowledge of the definite action of electricity, * A single paper thus prepared could insulate the electricity of a trough of forty pairs of plates. NATURE AND STRENGTH OF THE BATTERY ACID. 269 and the more accurate and philosophical mode of estimating the results by the equivalents of zinc consumed, will be their sufficient justification. 1137. Nature and strength of the acid.-My battery of forty pairs of three-inch plates was charged with acid consisting of 200 parts water and 9 oil of vitriol. Each plate lost, in the average of the experiments, 4-66 equivalents or the whole battery 186A4 equivalents, of zinc, for the equivalent of water decomposed in the volta-electrometer. Being charged with a mixture of 200 water and 16 of the muriatic acid, each plate lost 3 8, or the whole battery 152, equivalents of zinc for the water decomposed. Being charged with a mixture of 200 water and 8 nitric acid, each plate lost 1 85, or the whole battery 74 16, equivalents of zinc for one equivalent of water decomposed. The sulphuric and muriatic acids evolved much hydrogen at the plates in the trough; the nitric acid no gas whatever. The relative strengths of the original acids have already been given (1127.); but a difference in that respect makes no important difference in the results when thus expressed by equivalents (1140.). 1138. Thus nitric acid proves to be the best for this purpose: its superiority ape pears to depend upon its favouring the electrolization of the liquid in the cells of the trough upon the principles already explained (905. 973. 1022.), and consequently favouring the transmission of the electricity, and therefore the production of transferable power (1120.). 1139. The addition of nitric acid might, consequently, be expected to improve sulphuric and muriatic acids. Accordingly, when the same trough was charged with a mixture of 200 water, 9 oil of vitriol, and 4 nitric acid, the consumption of zinc was at each plate 2,786, and for the whole battery 1 1 5, equivalents. When the charge was 200 water, 9 oil of vitriol, and 8 nitric acid, the loss per plate was 2-26, or for the whole battery 90'4, equivalents. When the trough was charged with a mixture of 200 water, 16 muriatic acid, and 6 nitric acid, the loss per plate was 2*1 1, or for the whole battery 84*4, equivalents. Similar results were obtained with my battery of twenty pairs of four-inch plates (1 129.). Hence it is evident that the nitric acid was of great service when mingled with the sulphuric acid; and the charge generally used after this time for ordinary experiments consisted of 200 water, 42 oil of vitriol, and 4 nitric acid. 1 1 40. It is not to be supposed that the different strengths of the acids produced the differences above; for within certain limits I found the electrolytic effects to be nearly as the strengths of the acids, so as to leave the expression of force, when given in equivalents, nearly constant. Thus, when the trough was charged with a mixture of 200 water and 8 nitric acid, each plate lost P854 equivalent of zinc. When the charge was 200 water and 16 nitric acid, the loss per plate was 1#82 equivalent. When it was 200 water and 32 nitric acid, the loss was 2 1 equivalents. The differences here are not greater than happen from unavoidable irregularities, depending on other causes than the strength of acid. 1141. Again, when a charge consisting of 200 water, 4A oil of vitriol, and 4 nitric 270 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. acid was used, each zinc plate lost 2 16 equivalents ; when the charge with the same battery was 200 water, 9 oil of vitriol, and 8 nitric acid, each zinc plate lost 2 26 equivalents. 1142. I need hardly say that no copper is dissolved during the regular action of the voltaic trough. I have found that much ammonia is formed in the cells when nitric acid, either pure or mixed with sulphuric acid, is used. It is produced in part as a secondary result at the cathodes (663.) of the different portions of fluid constituting the necessary electrolyte, in the cells. 1143. Uniformnity of the charge.-This is a most important point, as I have already shown experimentally (1042. &c.). Hence one great advantage of Dr. hARE'S mechanical arrangement of his trough. 1144. Purity of the zinc.-If pure zinc could be obtained, it would be very advantageous in the construction of the voltaic apparatus (998.). Most zincs, when put into dilute sulphuric acid, leave more or less of an insoluble matter upon the surface in the form of a crust, which contains various metals, as copper, lead, zinc, iron, cadmium, &c., in the metallic state. Such particles, by discharging part of the transferable power, render it, as to the whole battery, local; and so diminish the effect. As an indication connected with the more or less perfect action of the battery, I may mention that no gas ought to rise from the zinc plates. The more gas which is generated upon these surfaces, the greater is the local action and the less the transferable force. The investing crust is also inconvenient, by preventing the displacement and renewal of the charge upon the surface of the zinc. Such zinc as, dissolving in the cleanest manner in a dilute acid, dissolves also the slowest, is the best zinc which contains much copper should especially be avoided. I have generally found rolled Liege or MossELMAN'S zinc the purest; and to that circumstance attribute in part the advantage of the new battery (1134.). 1145. Foulness of the zinc plates.-After use, the plates of a battery should be cleaned from the metallic powder upon their surfaces, especially if they are employed to obtain the laws of action of the battery itself. This precaution was always attended to with the porcelain trough batteries in the experiments described (1125., &c.). If a few foul plates are mingled with many clean ones, they make the action in the different cells irregular, and the transferable power is accordingly diminished, whilst the local and wasted power is increased. No old charge containing copper should be used to excite a battery. 1146. New and old plates.-I have found voltaic batteries far more powerful when the plates were new than when they have been used two or three times; so that a new and a used battery cannot be compared together, or even a battery with itself on the first and after times of use. My trough of twenty pairs of four-inch plates, charged with acid consisting of 200 water, 41 oil of vitriol, and 4 nitric acid, lost, upon the first time of being used, 2,32 equivalents per plate. When used after the fourth time with the same charge, the loss was from 3q26 to 4q47 equivalents per plate; the average EFFECT OF VICINITY OF THE PLATES-FIRST IMMERSION-NUMBER. 271 being 317 equivalents. The first time the forty pair of plates (1124.) were used, the loss at each plate was only 165 equivalent; but afterwards it became 2-16, 2-17, 2a52. The first time twenty pair of four-inch plates in porcelain troughs were used, they lost, per plate, only 317 equivalents; but after that, the loss was 5,25, 5,36, 5.9 equivalents. Yet in all these cases the zincs had been well cleaned from adhering copper, &c., before each trial of power. 1 147. With the rolled zinc the fall in force soon appeared to become constant, i. e. to proceed no further. But with the cast zinc plates belonging to the porcelain troughs, it appeared to continue, until at last, with the same charge, each plate lost above twice as much zinc for a given amount of action as at first. These troughs were, however, so irregular that I could not always determine the circumstances affecting the amount of electrolytic action. 1148. Vicinity of the copper and zinc.-The importance of this point in the construction of voltaic arrangements, and the greater power, as to immediate action, which is obtained when the zinc and copper surfaces are near to each other than when removed further apart, are well known. I find that the power is not only greater on the instant, but also that the sum of transferable power, in relation to the whole sum of chemical action at the plates, is much increased. The cause of this gain is very evident. Whatever tends to retard the circulation of the transferable force, (i. e. the electricity,) diminishes the proportion of such force, and increases the proportion of that which is local (996. 1120.). Now the liquid in the cells possesses this retarding power, and therefore acts injuriously, in greater or less proportion, according to the quantity of it between the zinc and copper plates, i. e. according to the distances between their surfaces. A trough, therefore, in which the plates are only half the distance asunder at which they are placed in another, will produce more transferable, and less local, force than the latter; and thus, because the electrolyte in the cells can transmit the current more readily, both the intensity and quantity of electricity is increased for a given consumption of zinc. To this circumstance mrainlv I attribute the superiority of the trough I have described (1134.). 1149. The superiority of double coppers over single plates also depends in part upon diminishing the resistance offered by the electrolyte between the metals. For, in fact, with double coppers the sectional area of the interposed acid becomes nearly double that with single coppers, and therefore it more freely transfers the electricity. Double coppers are, however, effective, mainly because they virtually double the acting surface of the zinc, or nearly so; for in a trough with single copper plates and the usual construction of cells, that surface of zinc which is not opposed to a copper surface is thrown almost entirely out of voltaic action, yet the acid continues to act upon it and the metal is dissolved, producing very little more than local effect (947. 996.). But when by doubling the copper, that metal is opposed to the second surface of the zinc plate, then a great part of the action upon the latter is converted into transferable force, and thus the power of the trough as to quantity of electricity is highly exalted. MDCCCXXXv. 2 N 272 DR. FARADAY9S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. 1150. First immersion of the plates.-The great effect produced at the first immersion of the plates, (apart from their being new or used (1146.),) I have attributed elsewhere to the unchanged condition of the acid in contact with the zinc plate (1003. 1037.): as the acid becomes neutralized its exciting power is proportionably diminished. HARE's form of trough secures much advantage of this kind, by mingling the liquid, and bringing what may be considered as a fresh surface of acid against the plates every time it is used immediately after a rest. 1151. AlTumber of plates *..-The most advantageous number of plates in a battery used for chemical decomposition, depends almost entirely upon the resistance to be overcome at the place of action; but whatever that resistance may be, there is a certain number which is more economical than either a greater or a less. Ten pairs of four-inch plates in a porcelain trough of the ordinary construction, acting in the volta-electrometer (1126.) upon dilute sulphuric acid of spec. grav. 1.314, gave an average consumption of 15'4 equivalents per plate, or 154 equivalents on the whole. Twenty pairs of the same plates, with the same acid, gave only a consumption of 5,5 per plate, or 110 equivalents upon the whole. When forty pairs of the same plates were used, the consumption was 3,54 equivalents per plate, or 1416 upon the whole battery. Thus the consumption of zinc arranged as twenty plates was more advantageous than if arranged either as ten or as forty. 1152. Again, ten pairs of my four-inch plates (1129.) lost 6*76 each, or the whole ten 67,6 equivalents of zinc, in effecting decomposition; whilst twenty pairs of the same plates, excited by the same acid, lost 3-7 equivalents each, or on the whole 74 equivalents. In other comparative experiments of numbers, ten pairs of the threeinch plates (1 125.) lost 3,725, or 37,25 equivalents upon the whole ; whilst twenty pairs lost 2 53 each, or 50-6 in all; and forty pairs lost on an average 2 21, or 88'4 altogether. In both these cases, therefore, increase of numbers had not been advantageous as to the effective production of transferable chemical power from the whole quantity of chemicalforce active at the surfaces of excitation (1 120.). 1153. But if I had used a weaker acid or a worse conductor in the volta-electrometer, then the number of plates which would produce the most advantageous effect would have risen; or if I had used a better conductor than that really employed in thevolta-electrometer, I might have reduced the number even to one; as, for instance, when a thick wire is used to complete the circuit (865., &c.). And the cause of these variations is very evident, when it is considered that each successive plate in the voltaic apparatus does not add anything to the quantity of transferable power or electricity which the first plate can put into motion, provided a good conductor be present, but tends only to exalt the intensity of that quantity, so as to make it more able to overcome the obstruction of bad conductors (994. 1158.). 1154. Large or small platest.-The advantageous use of large or small plates for electrolyzations will evidently depend upon the facility with which the transferable* GAY-LuSSAC and THENARD, Recherches Physico-Chimiques, torn. i. p. 29. t Ibid. EFFECT OF LARGE AND SMALL, PLATES-SIMULTANEOUS DECOMPOSiTIONS. 273 power or electricity can pass. If in a particular case the most effectual number of plates is known ( 151.), then the addition of more zinc would be most advantageously made in increasing the size of the plates, and not their number. At the same time, large increase in the size of the plates would raise in a small degree the most favourable number. 1 155. Large and small plates should not be used together in the same battery: the small ones occasion a loss of the power of the large ones, unless they be excited by an acid proportionably more powerful; for with a certain acid they cannot transmit the same portion of electricity in a given time which the same acid can evolve by action on the larger plates. 1 156. Simultaneous decompositions.-When the number of plates in a battery much surpasses the most favourable proportion (115 1-i 153.), two or more decompositions may be effected simultaneously with advantage. Thus my forty pairs of plates (1 124.) produced in one volta-electrometer 22-8 cubic inches of gas. Being recharged exactly in the same manner, they produced in each of two volta-electrometers 21 cubical inches. In the first experiment the whole consumption of zinc was 88 4 equivalents, and in the second only 48 28 equivalents, for the whole of the water decomposed in both volta-electrometers. 1157. But when the twenty pairs of four-inch plates (1129.) were tried in a similar manner, the results were in the opposite direction. With one volta-electrometer 52 cubic inches of gas were obtained; with two, only 14,6 cubic inches from each. The quantity of charge was not the same in both cases, though it was of the same strength; but on rendering the results comparative by reducing them to equivalents (1126.), it was found that the consumption of metal in the first case was 74, and in the second case 97, equivalents for the whole of the water decomposed. These results of course depend upon the same circumstances of retardation, &c., which have been referred to in speaking of the proper number of plates (1151.). 1 158. That the transferring, or, as it is usually called conductin power of an electrolyte which is to be decomposed, or other interposed body, should be rendered as good as possible*, is very evident (1020. 1120.). With a perfectly good conductor and a good battery, nearly all the electricity is passed, i. e. nearly all the chemical power becomes transferable, even with a single pair of plates (867.). With an interposed non-conductor none of the chemical power becomes transferable. With an imperfect conductor more or less of the chemical power becomes transferable as the circumstances favouring the transfer of forces across the imperfect conductor are exalted or diminished: these circumstances are, actual increase or improvement of the conducting power, enlargement of the electrodes, approximation of the electrodes, and increased intensity of the passing current. 1159. The introduction of common spring water in place of one of the volta-electrometers used with twenty pairs of four-inch plates (1 156.) caused such obstruction* GAY-LuSSAC and THENARD, Recherches Physico-Chimiques, tom. i. pp. 13, 15, 22.2 N2 274 DR. FARADAY S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. as not to allow one fifteenth of the transferable force to pass which would have cir culated without it. Thus fourteen fifteenths of the available force of the battery were destroyed, being converted into local force, (which was rendered evident by the evolution of gas from the zincs,) and yet the platina electrodes in the water were three inches long, nearly an inch wide, and not a quarter of an inch apart. 1160. These points, i. e. the increase of conducting power, the enlargement of the electrodes, and their approximation, should be especially attended to in volta-electrometers. The principles upon which their utility depend are so evident that there can be no occasion for further development of them here. Royal Institution, October 11, 1834 