(90) An Extract of Monsieur Christian Hugens de Zulichem his Letter to the Publisher, of the 15th of May 1674. from Paris; touching his Thoughts of Mr. Hook's Observations for proving the Motion of the Earth, not long since printed by Mr. Martyn, and taken Notice of in Numb. 101. of these Tracts. T H E Observations of Mr. Hook for finding out the Motion of the Earth are very good, and of great Consequence; but they must be continued, to see, whether in the Course of one or more Years the Parallaxes do regularly answer to the Annual Motion of the Earth. To which we also shall contribute our Labours; and the Vault, that is in our Observatory, being 28 Fathom deep, will in Time be very useful for that Purpose. This, if it succeed, will prove an almost entire Conviction of the Anti-copernicans, since there will remain for them nothing but this un-grounded Subterfuge, to say, that the Center of the Sphere of the fix'd Stars continually changes its Place for an Annual Motion. An Extract of another Letter, written by Seignior Cassini to the Publisher, relating to the same Subject, dated June 28. 1674. Which we shall insert here in the same Language, 'twas written in. -N On poterat, meo judicio, D. Hookius aptiori methodo Parallaxes Orbis annui in Fixis investigare, nec aptiorem ad eam investigationem eligere Stellam, quae ex lucidioribus & vertici proxima esset, & a polo Zodiaci non remota. Nec inutilis suit viri doctissimi conatus, cum diversitatem invenerit ad eam partem, ad quam exigit Parallaxis. Nostrae equidem Observationes nihil adhuc adeo liquidum hoc in genere exhibuere, licet in Fixarum Altitudinibus meridianis, variis anni temporibus, deprehenderemus differentias alias ab iis, quae ad promotionem Fixarum ex AEquinoctiorum praecessione consequuntur. Nondum tamen, quas ad hanc rem praemeditati sumus Observationes, exequi potuimus. Pateum (91) Puteum habemus in Observatorio ad id paratum, per fornicum foramina caelo pervium, altitudinis a fundo, quo scala commode ducit, pedum ferme ducentorum, sed operibus fabrorum, supremum fornicem fulcientibus, adhuc impeditum. Itaque nihil nobis per eum hactenus tentare licuit. Gratias interim Tibi ago maximas, Vir Clarissime, pro communicatis D. Hookii Observationibus, quae nobis majori erunt incitamento ad correspondentes instituendas. Vale, & me ama. 