A N A C C O M P T Given by Doctor Edward Brown, concerning the Copper-mine at Herrn-ground in Hungary. HErrn-ground is a little town seated very high between two Hills, upon a part of land of the same name, an Hungarian mile distant from Newsol. In this town is the entrance into a large Copper-mine, very much digged. I went in through a Cuniculus, called Tach-stoln, and continued divers hours in the Mine, and visited many of the most remarkable (1043) markable places in it. The steep descents in this Mine are made by Ladders or Trees set upright, with a deep notches or stayers cut in them to stay the foot upon. They are not troubled with water, the Mine lying high in the hill, so that the water may drain away; but they are molested with dust and damps. The Veins of this Mine are large,many of them cumulate,and the Ore very rich; in an hundred pounds of Ore they ordinarily finde twenty pounds of Copper, sometimes 30, 40, half Copper, and even to 60 in the hundred. Much of the Ore is joyn'd so fast to the rock, that tis separated with much difficulty. There are divers sorts of Ore, but the chief difference is between the Yellow and the Black: the Yellow is pure Copperore: the Black contains also a proportion of Silver They find no quick-silver here: the mother of the ore is yellow; and the Copper ore, heated and cast into water, maketh it become like that of some Sulphureous Baths. They separate the Metal from the Ore with great difficulty. The Ore commonly passes 14 times through the furnaces: sometimes it is burned, and other times melted; sometimes by it self, and sometimes mixt with other minerals and its own dross. There are divers sorts of Vitreol found in this Mine; Green, Blew, Reddish, and White. There is also a Green Earth or sedimont of a green water, called Berg grun. There are likewise stones found of a beautiful green and blew colour, and one sort, on which Turcoises have been found; therefore called the Mother of the Turcois. There are also two Springs of a Vitriolat water, which are affirm'd to turn iron into Copper. They are called the Old and the New Ziment. These Springs lye deep in the Mine. The Iron is ordinarily left in the Water 14 dayes. I here present you with some pieces of it, and with an Heart and a Chain, formerly Iron, now appearing to be Copper. Divers of these pieces I took out of the old Ziment. They are hard within the water, and do not totally loose their figure, and fall into powder, as you will perceive by them; they will easily melt, I have sent a piece melted without the addition of any other substance. They make handsome Cups and Vessels out of this Salt of Copper: I 13 drank (1044) drank out of one of them, when I was at the Verwalter of Herngrownd his house: It was gilded over, and had a rich piece of Silver-ore, fastned in the middle of it, and this Inscription grav'd on the outside, Eisen ware Ich, kupfer bin Ich, Silber trag Ich, Gold bedeckt mich. i. e. Copper I am, but Iron was of old, Silver I carry, cover'd am with Gold. 