~ Fig. 1. p. 146. 4 3/4 Inches Fig. 2. p. 155. B A A 2 3 1 A Section thro' the middle. 14 Inches E C C C Fig. 4. a p. 169. D D A Fig. 3. A A ~ b p. 167. E X S C B 6 ~ Inches 1 Fig. 5. 3 B p. 170. 4 F 2 Philos. Trans. No. 479. TAB. II. 4 5 C F Very Dry. Dry. Dryer. Dryisb. Middle State B ~ G D Moistisb. Moister. Moist. ~ Wet. E H X R B 1 3 C E 4 2 IX. A Letter from R. Badcock, Esq; to Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. containing some Microscopical Observations on the Farina faecundans of the Holyoak and the Passion-Flower. S I R, A Few Days ago I return'd from Richmond; and, looking on the Advertiser, saw a Book publish'd by Mr. Needham *, Part of which contain'd Observations on the Farina faecundans. As I before had (while at Richmond) made some myself, I immediately examin'd the Book, and find Kensington, Nov. 6. 1745. Read April 10. 1746. * New Microscopical Discoveries, &c. Lond. 1745. 80. [151] find many of my Experiments so different from his, and some that have altogether escaped him, that, I flatter myself, mine will not be unacceptable; which has occasion'd my troubling you with this. I have likewise made some Experiments on that of the PassionFlower; which differing very much, I shall take the Liberty to wait on you with next Tuesday. In the mean time I am, S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, R. Badcock. Experiments and Observations on the Farina of the Hollyhock. T H E first Experiment I made, was gathering the Bud of a Hollyhock so young, that the Petala were not yet form'd; and stripping off the Calix, nothing appeared, but the Apices close to the Stylus (for the Stamina were not yet perceptible): These Apices appeared to me to be a kind of Bag; and I could plainly perceive a Seam (if I may so call it) run down the middle of it. This occasion'd me to take a fine Needle, and carefully open them; which I did, and found each full of Farina, which seem'd to lie very regular. This determined me to take notice of the Course of the Farina in each Flower, and I observed the following Particulars: August 24. I took notice of a Flower just going to blow, and the Petala appeared; the Farina was then just burst from its Apices. The Time of these U bursting [152] bursting is as soon as soon as ever the Petala blow out enough to be affected by the Sun. 25. The Flower opened more, and the Farina appeared so thick on the Outside of the Apices, that they seem'd quite cover'd from Sight, without a very narrow Inspection. 26. The Farina began to decrease visibly, and continued to do so till the 27. When I perceived some red curled Stamina, without any Apices, pushing themselves out at the Top thro' the others. These were, within their Bend, thick set with a kind of Hairs (a), and in their Passage took a good Quantity of Farina with them, which remain'd a Day longer than that which was contained in the Apices. I could not observe the Farina to fall on any particular Part of the Flower, but seem'd rather to be dispersed. When these red Stamina appear, the Farina is going, and the Apices, which contain'd it, dead. The Flower was kept till it wither'd, and the Stylus, &c. cut off; but in neither Experiment was there found any Difference, after a Month's keeping the Farina, except in the Colour, which was deeper. Cutting off the Stylus, (b) &c. may have a considerable Effect upon the Seed, but seems to have but little on the Flower: For, tho' it was cut off as soon as possible, (a) I cannot observe any thing in this Flower, unless it be these, that deserve the Name of Papillae: Tho' the first Magnifier could shew nothing satisfactory as to this Point. (b) This Experiment I have now in Hand; and if any thing particular discovers itself, you shall know it, with its regular and daily Alterations. [153] possible, yet the Flower blew out the same as if nothing had happen'd, till about the Time that the Farina might be supposed to act; then the Petala began to look black next the Stylus, and dropp'd off a Day sooner than the regular blowing Flower. Not having an Opportunity of pursuing this further, for want of Flowers and warm Weather, I applied myself to the Experiments of Mr. Needham, mentioned p. 74. I brush'd off some dry Farina, and, putting Thames-Water to it, found it would not burst, under the Space of 7 or 8 Minutes, and not till they are soak'd in the Liquid: For, at the Time of acting, they seldom or ever lie one upon another, but float off, till they are clear of all Incumbrances. But I observed one Particular, which seems intirely to have escaped Mr. Needham, which was, That, on the Application of Water, they instantly emit a pellucid kind of Matter (much thinner than that at bursting) thro' their capillary Prickles, with which they are thick set. Upon the Application of Bristol Water they are found to burst much sooner, and with less Emission. In Vinegar they scarce ever burst; at least, if they attempt it, are instantly stopp'd by the Sharpness of the Liquor. I don't find Vinegar to have any other Effect than this. In making my Experiments on a fresh-blown Hollyock, I observed a Lusus Naturae of two Globules quite smooth and shining (contrary to their Nature, which is rough): One of these acted very soon, the other not at all. The whole Farina seem to me to have a strong Suction; for I was obliged, in the Space of ten Minutes, to apply Water three times, in order for them to have enough to act in; and I observe, U 2 that [154] that they burst with a greater Force, and throw out a much larger Pulp, when thrown into a Depth of Water. Tho' I have been often obliged to supply them with Water, yet I find the greatest Number always act with the first Water. I have often seen a Globule, tho' it has been burst on one Side before, yet has burst a second time on the opposite. Which seems to me as if the first Aperture was instantly closed, so as not to emit again: For I have made it an Observation, that tho' the Pulp is never thrown out at the same Place a second time, yet the Globule, before it has done acting, shall have had so many Bursts, as to look like a Picture of a Bomb-Shell, with its various Discharges before the Separation of its Parts. P. S. This is all I have been able to learn; but if any thing more falls under my Observation, you may depend on receiving an Account. Experiments and Observations on the Farina faecundans of the Passion-Flower. T H E Passion Flower I look upon to be the fittest Flower for Experiments on the Farina, of any. First, as it is large, and long in Bloom: Secondly, as the Flower by its Nature preserves itself and its Farina from Injury: For, no sooner is the Sun off of the Flower, but it gradually closes up as the Sun declines, till the Petala are so close, as not to admit any but very violent Showers. This, with the Disposition of the Farina, which is on the Inside of its Apex, when the Flower is closed, likewise preserves it [155] it from Wind. Add to this the infinite Quantity of Farina, which may be taken off (from the Largeness of its Apex) without any Force, Damage to the Flower, or itself. To this likewise we may add, that, after a Night's keeping gather'd, the Farina has the same Effect and Action in the Morning, as it had when fresh-gather'd: Which Quality no other Farina has. See Needham, page 77. The Farina of the Passion-Flower appears (by Mr. Cuff's double reflecting Microscope) Magr. 6,5,4, to be a smooth round Globule, of a pretty full Yellow, like the Appearance No. 1. which we suppose the Area of the Microscope. These Globules, on being more magnify'd, are found to have some three Circles (as No. 2.) others two, others none. Among these I have found a considerable Number quite white, as attempted to be shewn in T A B. II. Fig. 2. No. 1.; but I never observ'd these act. When the Globules No. 2. come to be magnify'd with the first or second Magnifier, they appear indented, exactly like No. 3. All the colour'd ones, tho' differently mark'd, yet all act alike. I observe that these act in a much less Space of Time than those of the Hollyhock, which are ten Minutes, tho' fresh; whereas these act instantly, tho' kept for 24 Hours (a): Neither have these any Suction or convulsive Motion; acting intirely still, and in the first Water. Attempting to apply them to the opaque Microscope after their Action, they fluck round the Point like wet Skins: But one Thing I observe, that they (a) I have since had a Flower lay in a Window from Friday Morning till Monday, and the Farina has acted very briskly. [156] they burst but once, throwing out all their pellucid Matter, which is yellow, at the first Discharge. They act no otherwise in Oil, but by emitting a Matter much thinner than that at bursting: But, having lain in Oil for a Minute, and put from thence into Water, they act instantly, and with a seeming additional Force. Being put into Malt-Spirits, they exhibit a very agreeable Appearance: All those which emit, as in Oil, lie dead and still; but those which neither burst nor emit, are thrown into so violent an Agitation, that they appear like Animalcules; sometimes joining ten or a dozen together; on a sudden, an imperceptible Force shall throw a Globule, sometimes (two or three) three Parts over the Area of the Microscope; often two Globules shall be whirl'd round with incredible Swiftness, for the Space of near a Minute, then separated by the same imperceptible Swiftness, fly each a different Way. They will act thus, till the Liquor may be supposed to dry up, when supplying them with Liquor, will regain their Motion; and tho' you put Liquor often to them, yet every time will give them that Swiftness. Upon applying the Magnifyer, No. 2. I find it is the white unacting Globules that do thus, and imagine that they rise with that Spirit which evaporates; and their not being volatile occasions them to stop at Top, and continue this Motion as long as the Liquid has any Evaporation; for I observe, after a certain time, they lie like the others which have acted. In this Liquid they burst, in such a manner, as that the Places from whence they burst are perceptible (See T A B. II. Fig. 2, No. 5.), and the Pieces broke off very plain. The Way I obtain'd a Sight of this, was to let the Globules [157] bules dry after their Action, on the Glass. Some burst so fierce as to break off a Piece, as No. 5.; others can scarce be scen to have any Alteration: Yet no Magnifier will go so far as to shew the Matter thrown from them, any otherwise than as a yellowish Water. Upon applying Aqua fortis to this Farina, the Shape and Marks are instantly changed to those mark'd in T A B. II. Fig. 2. No. 4.; whereas, on the Hollyock, it has no other Effect than burning up their capillary Prickles. The Lilium flore reflexo of Mr. Needham I have never seen; those kind of Flower having been a long time out of Bloom; but, as to this of the PassionFlower, what is placed on the Top of the Pistil, the deepest Magnifier will not shew perfect: And tho' I have endeavour'd all possible means, could never obtain any thing satisfactory; so that I must freely own either my Misfortune or my Ignorance. On the Pistil of the Stockjnly-Flower there are very plain to be seen some kind of capillary Tubes on its Top; but then they appear to stand thus ~, without any Aperture, as described by Mr. Needham. Whether these may have their Pores, or not, I am not able to say. I shall continue making Observations on this Part of the Flowers which may fall under my Inspection, and hope soon to be satisfy'd in this Point: But, as to his Opinion of the Action of the Farina, I cannot, at present, grant it any other active Power than Suction; for had there been any inward Mechanism, the various Experiments I have try'd must have shewn it in some Shape or other; whereas those who have the [158] the greatest Motion before Action, I can only observe to swell, and look larger, on the almost immediate Application of Water. X. 