(100) I. HORTUS INDICUS MALABARICUS, continens Regni Malabarici apud Indos celeberrimi omnis generis Plantas Rariores &c. Amstelodami, Anno. 1678. THis excellent Work giveing account of the most rare and strange Trees and Shrubs of the most fruitful and flourishing Country of Malabar in the East Indies, by their descriptions, Vertues, and whatever else hath been observed remarkable, hath been especially promoted by the noble and ingenious Governour of the same H. Henry Van Rheede, who made his utmost endeavours to find and learn out not only from his own observations, but by the advice and assistance of the most learned men of the Country, what might prove exact and true concerning this Subject, not only to please the Curious with those Monsters of Vegetables expressed therein, but for the help to Mankind by their excellent Vertues. But through the various Employments of this Noble Person, himself not able (to his desire) to performe such a taske (tho accomplished and curious in drawing and designing as well as other parts) earnestly desiring to prosecute the same, he called to his assistance the most experienced and learned Father Mathew of the Order of St. Joseph a Carmelite, whose long inclinations to these Studies had raised him to a great perfection of knowledge, who upon the request of this noble Person opened his Treasure of Skill as well in his swift and most lively designing, as in other parts of this worke; To which our present Author Johanes Casiarius adjoyning his accurate hand in supplying the defects of others with his knowledge hath compiled and set forth this (101) this admirable work with very apt descriptions and caused the most essential parts of each (viz.) the Flowers, Fruits,and their Cases,to be also engraved in large Copper Cuts generally as big as the Life, 57 in number, each whole Sheet opened containing but one Plant and its parts, most excellently done (they having had most Skilful Painters upon the place,) to which are added the Latine, Malabarick, Arabick and Braman's names. And for that part concerning the Vertues the Author hath set forth in their own Language, and with the Translations thereof, the Testimonies of the most learned men of the Country, as Father Mathew the Carmelite, Ranga Botto Vinaque,Pandito,& Apu Bandito, a Braman, and Itti Achudem a Doctor of Chegu &c. whose fidelity Dr. Christian Herman,and D.Manuel Carnier (men of credit and since returned home) by seting their hands to the Translation of their Testimonials out of their original Languages have certified to the World the truth of these Relations. And for the better completion of this Laudable Worke, that most curious and exact Person whose name should not be mentioned without an Encomium Dr. A. Seyn Physick and Botanick Professor lately at Leyden in his Epistle complaining of the defect in some other Authors of the connection and consent of others who have also formerly written on the same Subject, hath been pleased wonderfully to satisfy the World and shew his great learning in illustrating this Worke with his notes upon each Plant and his thoughts of the same, wherein he hath shewed what Authors have formerly written of it, and what is new, who gives a great Character of the Worke and that an Egg is not more like an Egg than the Plant to these Figures, which he desires you to look into this Garden and behold. Wherein our Author first gives a large account of a sort of Palm-Tree which he calls Tenga, whose Fruits are much coveted by Elephants, and the Trees Eradicated by them for the same. From the Juice or Liquor of which Tree they there make divers sorts of Drinks,one especially which O they (102) they call Suri, a Liquor of a grateful Sweetness mixed with Acidity strong and inebriateing as Wine, which whilst new is Sweet in the Morning, Sowre by Night; one day somewhat acid, the next day sweet, but after due Fermentation past, proves an excellent moderate Drink, helpfull in Feavers, very pleasant and wholsome, which by distillation they improve to be spirituous as Brandy. Of this Tree and its several parts are Four several Plates. Dr. P. Herman now Professor at Leyden sent from thence a leaf of another sort of Palm by them called Carimpana 30 Feet long, and moderately extended 9 Feet broad. Another sort called Caunga of which and its several parts are Four Figures. A Fourth sort called Ampana is a very fruitful Tree bearing an innumerable Stock of round Fruits exceeding sharp of tast and biteing to the Tongue. A Fifth sort he calls Schunda-pana. A Sixth called Bala with plain streight leaves undivided, whose Roots boyled prove very helpful to those who are troubled with Vertiginous fits, sharpness of Urine, and whose bodies have been infected with Quick-Silver. He tells us of the largest of Canes which he calls Ily, supposed to be that which C. Bauhine calls Arundo Arborea, an example whereof D. Herman sent over from thence, saying that the Portugals have corruptly named it Bambu or Bamboes, which he entituled Arundo Indica arborea cortice spinoso, and tells us that they call it Nuayhas, which is the Ague Tree from its effects upon those who wash themselves in those Waters wherein the Leaves have fallen; but they turne it also to good use by makeing a Decoction of the Leaves, which seemes one of their best dispersers of coagulated blood, either inwardly or outwardly taken, and from the pithie part in the middle of the old ones they make an excellent Medicine against the Strangury and sharpness of Urine. The Leaves hereof seem different from others of this Nature being not above an hands (103) hands length and a fingers breadth,growing in bunches upon pedicles or foot Stalks out of the several Joynts, and he reports that about 60 years after the sowing hereof it bears its Flowers all in a Months time, and its Seeds, divesting its self of its Leaves, wholly dies away Root and Branch. There is a Cane of this in the Gallery of the Garden at Leyden 26 or 28 Feet long,and in the Musaeum Ashmolianum at Oxford one not much less,being 8 or 9 Inches Diameter, both which have certainly lost a great part, one end not much exceeding the other in bigness. They have a Tree or Shrub which they call Appel orNal la Appella, which serves for many excellent uses. The Oyl extracted from the Roots is of a Gold yellow colour, of a most grateful smell, somewhat of sharp tast mixed with a little bitterness,easeth the pains of their Heads and almost any other parts of the Body, all Aches comeing from Cold, the Gout, Spleen, of the Bowels, very prevalent against Agues,Feavers &c. Another which he calls Carua, which D. Seyn thought good to call Laurus Zeilanica, vel Malabarica baccis calyculatis ex qua Cinamomum, of which great things are related and the diversitie observable: from the Roots they extract Camphore and the Oyle thereof; from the Bark of the Tree, Oyle of Cinamon; from the Leaves, Oyle of Cloves; from the Fruits,Oyle like that of Juniper; also a thick fat Oylie Substance like Wax serveing for makeing of Unguents, Plasters, Candles &c. This Tree serves,as also diverse others, both for external and internal uses. Divers of their Trees flower twice a year, and some are productive all the year of very Sweet and Odoriferous and strangely shaped Flowers and Fruits, some whereof are, and some not, reduceable to our European method of Trees and Plants. But Providence seems admirably kind to those hot Countrys in provideing them with such rare cooleings and Cordials profitable against Feavours, Calentures, O 2 and (104) and such like distempers as may probably arise, rare Antipestilentials, Excellent Oyles, Liquors &c. for corroborateing and exhilarateing the Bodies and Spirits of men' whereof any desirous Reader may farther satisfy himself in the perusal of the Worke. Horti Indici Malabarici pars secunda, &c. Amstelodami 1679. The second part of this Laudable Worke hath been especially collected and promoted by that great Senator Henvan Rheede,to whose counsel and assistance the before mentioned John Casearius being called hath continued his expressions of skill in describing the rare and unknown Plants of that Country, some whereof have been formerly mentioned by some others, as C. Bauhine, Prosp. Alpinus, Piso, Bontius and the late Jac.Breynius, but not with that cleerness and exactness as these long inhabitants upon the place have proved willing and able to do, as by their excellent Sculptures, clear Descriptions, and their excelent Vertues, may to the Reader more largely appear. But alass the loss of that Curious and Learned Notifier D.A. Seyn, whose ingenious notes so illustrated the former Booke, being Snatched away by untimely Death in the Flower of his Age, had render'd the Work imperfect, had not an ingenious Successor D. I. Commelinus risen up in his place, who very well considering the necessitie of prosecuting a Worke so well begun, hath given good demonstration of his reading and learning by comparing and adjusting these exotick Rarities to what others have formerly said of them,and added his notes upon the same. In this part are 56 large and excellent Figures drawn and out to the Life,each one employing a whole sheet holding but one Plant or part of a Tree, which seem to be as big (105) big as the life and well designed as in the other also. When he hath occasion to express a Tree he maketh a part of a large trunck or body cut off,with a Limb or Branch springing out, bearing the Leaves, Flowers or Fruits, or what is observeable, which seems a much more expressive way than to contract and abbreviate a whole large Tree to so little a compass as other Sculpturs usually do. Our Author gives account of a rare Plant which he calls Kaida whereof there are several sorts which are kinds of Anana's, which our Travellers know by the name of Indian Pine-Apples. Of the first he gives 8 Figures to express the several Growths and Parts of the same, growing a considerable heigth, divideing its self into divers branches, from the naked parts of which (which are transparent that a man looking up may see the Skie through them) it drops down new rooty matter which touching the earth takes fresh hold for its farther procedure, (as is observable in the Sedum arborescens majus when it grows well) the flowers are pleasantly sweet, and the fruits growing at every branches end are received among their delicacies, and desired by Elephants. A second sort called Kaida taddi beareth large fruits like clusters of the fruits of the true Pine-tree set together. Thirdly Perin-Kaida-taddi whose fruit grows in large bunches but with lesser scales, not distinctly apart as the other. Fourthly Kaida-tsjera,which seem (as well as the rest of his) somewhat odd names pretending to be Latine;the fruits of this sort become large long Cones with a stiff forked prickle upon each scale,and are pleasant fruits to eat. He tells us of a beautiful Shrub about 8 or 10 feet high bearing clusters of flowers, which are of divers colours, as red, scarlet, white and shaded with degrees of these colours, as is the plant with us called the-Marvel of Peru. Also three sorts of Hummatu which are kinds of Datura, one with prickly fruit but round, two other with smooth fruits (106) fruits oval; the leaves serve for many external and some internal uses; the Seeds are of a Soporiferous quality, as the known Datura. Here are two sorts of Ericu mentioned, which are Apocynums, whose seed vessels the Arabians call Beid el Ossar, which others name Beidelzar, which is Apocynum majus Syriacum rectum Cornuti. Avanacu ceu Citavanacu of our Author,is Ricinus Americanus of others, of which here are seveal sorts and shapes. He sets forth among many others a curious Shrub called Nandi-Ervatam major & minor bearing large odoriferous flowers, for whose sweetness they are entertained into their gardens, one whereof was brought over and presented to the Prince of Orange, and did, if not doth grow in his Garden at Honseleardick which our Annotatour calls Syringa Malabariensis lactescens flore niveo pleno odoratissimo. Divers others are set forth worth observation whose descriptions are good and whose vertues seem to be peculiar, if not specifick. Horti Indici Malabarici pars tertia &c. Amstelodami Anno 1682. This third part the before mentioned Excellent H. van Rheed hath dedicated to the Indian King in whose Dominions himself lived several years, and there collected, and made his observation of what that Country afforded, who hopes by his promise of true relation that his account of so many new and most wonderful plants and trees may not be apprehended an ungrateful work, since the greatest part thereof are such as have not been mentioned by any Europaean Author, complaning of those who stuff the world with new books of formerly known Subjects. In his survey of the Woods and Mountains with no small pleasure, he could not but observe almost every tree to (107) to be different, sometimes seeing some 80 feet high or more of a very considerable thickness seeming but one body, but bearing 10 or 12 different sorts of leaves, flowers, fruits &c. Which seemed amazeing at first, but from better examination they proved to be so many several sorts growing up Hederaceously together, complicateing themselvs into one body, others with their boughs falling to the ground or ~ roots from their branches growing up again employing a large space of ground, and sometimes so neatly growing that they seemed rather to be a stately Palace with its curious Pillars and Arches, than an uncultivated wood; which Umbrella's Providence hath wonderfully bestowed on these hot Countries which are very pleasant and fruitful as if each part were cultivated by skilful and industrious hands. This rich Country he tells you is extended from the City of Goa to the Comorina Promontory 120 German miles, and about 30 broad, abounding in all necessaries both for meat and medicine. He seems mightily to commend the unexpressible cunning of their goverment, their Theology and Politicks so well mixed, one depending upon the other,that the same may in probability hold to the worlds end. The two first parts of this work were especially compiled by the Reverend and skilful D.J. Casearius a Divine in the City of Cochin (where then lived D.P. Herman the present Botanick Professor at Leyden, a person of excellent experience and skill, and no small instrument in this work with his assistance there) which D. Casearius then dying before the finishing of the work D. van Rheed tcok to his assistance the well experienced D.J. Munnicks now Professor at Utrecht for the prosecution and completion of his designed work, to which D.J. Commelinus hath bestowed his curious Notes,but tells us that this third volume should have been more properly the second, consisting most of trees as the first doth; and the second should have been the last containing Shrubs and Plants, in which are 64 whole sheet plates of Sculptures rarely done. In (108) In this Volume our Author sets forth trees more unusual and seemingly strange than in either of the other. At first he presents you with a monstrous Palm tree which he calls Codda panna,five Palma montana Malabarica,and says that about the five or six and thirtieth year of its age it riseth to be 60 or 70 feet high wth plicated leaves near round, 20 feet broad; wherewith they usually cover their Houses, and part of one leaf makes a Book, between whose folds they stamp their Characters entring the outward Cuticle and there remains the impression, which proves most durable or Records or the like, but bearing neither flowers nor fruits in that time; out of the top bud whereof riseth forth a new Stem which in 3 or 4 months time becomes 30 feet high; about which time the leaves fall off, & there appears a plaine; naked, upright, streight tree, from the sides of which new shoot,in about 3 months more spring forth divers naked streight parts from every side round, the lower whereof may be 20 feet long, Whereof there is a large pattern in Mr. Ashmoles Musaeum at Oxford. Afterwards these branches are adorned with abundance of small white flowers growing in bunches or bundles most pleasant to behold, which falling away are succceded by great store of round fruits hanging on the small branches of an Ofseous substance with plump Kernells in the middle, which being eaten cause Vomiting, and not of much use. This may probably be that mentioned by C. Bauhine,Arbor folijs sex brachiorum longis, cujus folio extenso tres quatuorve viri in itinere operiuntur ut pluvias non metuant. To express this so notable a thing and all its parts, the Author hath employed 12 plates. There is another which is referred to the Palmes very strange, called Todda-panna; to set forth its several parts, shapes and transmutations, our Author hath bestowed nine plates,the whole growing about 30 feet high, with a strange body about a foot and half or 2 feet diameter, with many joints and as it were Horizontal articulations. Another he calls Katou-Indel, which is also referred to the (109) the Palmes with a Plum like Fruit, to shew the parts of which he gives 4 Plates. Tpaka-maram & Pilau Malabarensibus; Iaqueira Lusitanis; is a large Timber Tree, bearing its fruits somewhat extraordinary hanging out of the body of the tree and large branches, not on the small branches as other trees do, each one a cubit long of an oval form all over prickly of which our Author particularizeth the parts on the three Plates. He tells us also of a Tree of a vast bigness, which he calls ~, of 50 feet commonly in circumference, whereof there is one in the Provine of Cochin by the Temple Baykam, which they say hath been there growing 2000 years. Many other things might have been observed as things very unusal in these parts of the world, which we leave the curious Reader farther to satisfy himself of, from the work it self. P. II. Epistola (110) II. Epistola ad D. Joelem Langelottum DE ALCALI ET ACIDI INSUFFICIENTIA pro principiorum corporum Naturalium munere gerendo, conscripta a Johanne Bohn Phil. ac Med. Doct. & in Acad. Lips. Prof. P. THe ingenious Author of this Epistle; in pursuit of his dasign, do's. 1. Complain of the obscure, and imperfect Definitions, which are given of the two great Duellists of Nature, Alcali and Acidum, by the favourers of this Hypothesis; if every thing, which ferments with an acid,be an Alcali, how comes it to pass, that Spirit of Salt, or Spirit of Vitriol causes a fermentation, and precipitation, when mingled with a solution of Luna, or Venus, made with Aqua-fortis, or Spirit of Nitre? and, if whatsoever coagulates with an Alcali, be an acid, whence is it, that Liquor Nitri fixi, or ol. Tartari per del., turns Milk? and that Spirit * coagulates with ol. Tart. per deliquium. 2. He asserts, that those actions, which are imputed to Alcali and Acidum, do many times belong to such bodies, as partake of little, or nothing, of those Principles; for instance, he says, that the eroding quality of Oils per Expressionem, does not arise from the acid of those oils, there being not (as he says) so much acid in them, as can produce all those Effects, which are commonly laid to its charge. 3. He (111) 3. He affirms that there is an absolute necessity of introducing (at least) one active Principle more; without which it is impossible to explain several Phaenomena of Nature, particularly the inflammability of Spirit of Wine, which (he says) cannot proceed from any acid, that is in it, (as the friends to this Hypothesis would perswade us) for Spirit of Wine well Tartarizd, burns away as readily, as that which is of an equal strength with it, and is not Tartariz'd at all. The Author has hit on many things, which the Honorable Mr. Boyle thought fit to make use of in his [Reflections upon the Hypothesis of Alcali, and Acidum] which tract was Printed in the same year with this Epistle, and may very properly be consulted for a farther satisfaction in this subject. III. Jacobi Berneri, D.SPIRITUS VINI SINE ACIDO&c. Demonstratio curiosa. THe Author of this little Treatise (which is joyned with the Epistle before mentioned) does prove, that there is no Acid in Spirit of Wine. 1. By affirming, that Spirit of Wine, altho cohobated seven times from Salt of Tartar, (and by these means freed from its acid, if it had any at all) does still afford an ofsa alba, when mingled with spirit of Urine. 2. By giving an Analysis of spirit of Wine, which discovers it to be an Oil dissolved in Phlegm, having nothing at all of an acid in it. 3. By (112) 3. By shewing, that this Offa alba will not bear that Test, which a Coagulum arising from an Alcali, and an Acid, will undergo for, when brought to the Fire, it immediately dissolves. 