[35] VII. A Letter from Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. to the President, concerning a new discovered Sea-Insect, which he calls the Eye-sucker. S I R, I W A S lately favoured with a Couple of small Sea-Insects, by a Gentleman, who told me, they were found fixed by the Snout to the Eyes of Sprats; that they are often observed sticking there, and may consequently be supposed to suck their Nourishment from thence. Read March 8. 1743-4. As I do not remember this Insect has been yet mentioned by any body, I hope I shall be excused for laying before you a short Description of it, with a Drawing thereof, as seen by the naked Eye, TAB. I. Fig. 2. and another as magnified by the Microscope, Fig. 3. I shall likewise beg Leave to distinguish it by the Name of Eye-sucker, as that Name conveys an Idea of the Manner how it lives. The Length of this little Creature from End to End is near Three Inches, whereof the Head is about one Quarter-part. Its Body is somewhat thicker than an Hog's Bristle, and of a pleasant green Colour. A Gut seems running through it, and terminates at the Anus. The Head is light-brown, twice the Thickness of the Body, and of an oblong Figure, tapering towards the Snout. It has a Pair of fine small black Eyes, and a Couple of Holes, at some Distance forwards, which probably are its Nostrils. E 2 But [36] But the most remarkable Part of the Head is its Proboscis or Snout; which is nearly half its Length, and does not end in a Point, but spreads at its Extremity with a considerable Aperture. This Snout appears of an horny Substance, and has, on every Side, several large Knobs or Protuberances; whereby, when once insinuated into the Fish's Eye, it must necessarily be fixed there, so as not easily to be removed. But this the Figure will more expressively demonstrate. As the Insects, whence I take this Description, were dead and dry, it cannot possibly be so exact and particular; and is more liable to Mistake, than if they had been living. But I hope it may serve to give some Idea of this odd Creature, till a better can be obtained from some curious Observer, who may get a Sight of it alive. I am, with the utmost Respect, S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, March 8. 1743-4. H. Baker. VIII. Fig. 2. p. 35. A Fig. 1. p. p. 11 Fig. 4. p. 85. B F G H I C D 