363 P R E S E N T S RECEIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, From November i8i6 to Yuly t817. WITM THA NAMES OF THE DONORS. 3I6. PRESENTS. DONORS. \ov, 7. Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. 11. The Geological Society. LondonX 8i66. 4 Abhandlungen der Koniglichen Akademie der WisThe Royal Academy of senscha len aus den Jahr I8o4,i8 i. Berlin, Sciences at Berlin. 1815. On the Lines that divide each sernidiurnal Arc into 6 W. A. Cadell, Esq. equal Parts, by W. A, Cadell, Esq. F. R. S. London and E-dli. Edinburgh, i8i6. 4 An Inquiry into the Causes o1 the Motion of the Dr. James Carson. Blood, by J ames Carson M, D. Liverpool, 18I5. 80A Treatise on the Coal Mines of Durham and NorJ. H. H. Holmes, Esq. thumberland, by J. Hb H. Holmes, Esq. F. S. A. London, 1it6. 8 Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of The Society ofArtsMaArts, Manufactures,and Commerce. Vol. XXXIII. nufactures and ComLondon, I 8 8i merce. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. VII, pt. I. The Medical and Ch)iLondon, X816, 8 rurgical Society of London. Precis 6l6mentaire de Physiologie, par F. Magendie. M. Magendie. Tom, 1. Paris, i8x6. 80 Memoire sur la De'glutition de l'Air atmospherique, par M. Magendie. 8s Memoire sur 1'(Esophage, par M. Magendie . 80 3Essai sur les Probabilites, par M. le Comte Laplace. Le Comte Laplace. Paris, I 8 ii6 80 Memoir on the cutting Gorget of Hawkins. TransJames Briggs, Esq lated from the Italian of Ant. Scarpa, by James Briggs, Esq. London,l i816. L 364 ] i816. PRESENTS. DONORS. Now, 7. Journral des Mines, No. 227 and 228 Conseil des Mines. Journal of Science and Arts. No. 3. The Managers of the Royal Institution. The Colonial Journal. No. z. The Editors. The Monthly Review from July to October, and Ap. Mr. G. E. Griffith. pendix to Vol. LXXX. The European Magazine, from July to October. The Editor. The Philosophical Magazine. No. 2zT9-222. Mr. Alex, Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy. No. 44-47. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Memoire sur la Diffraction de la Lumiere, par M4, M. Fresnel. Fresnel. 89 Supplement 'a la Theorie analytique des Probabilites, M le Comte Laplace. par Laplace. Memoire sur les Plantes auxquelles on attribue un M. de St. Hilaire, Placenta central libre, et sur la nouvelle Famille des Paronychiees, par August de Saint Hilairec Paris, s 8 I 6. 40 Flora Tonbridgensis, by T. F. Forster, Esq. LonThomas Forster, Esq. don, t 8 i 6. e20 Two gold Coins, viz. Lions of King James I. & King The Barons of His Ma. James II. of Scotland, found in the Ruins of the jesty's Exchequer in Castle of Cadder. Scotland. Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Koniglichen Professor Bes el. Universitats Sternwart in Konigsberg, von F. W. Bessel, Erste Abtheilung. Konigsburg, i8i5. fol, Untersuchung der Gross und des Einflusses des Vor.. ruckens der Nachtgleichen, von F. W. Bessel. Berlin, i8Is. 40 Nov. 14. Bibliothecz Collegii Regalis Medicorum LondinenThe Royal College of sis Catalogus, 1757. 80 Physicians. A Treatise on the Nature and Cure of Gout, by Dr. Charles Scudamore, Charles Scudamore, M. D. London, i8i6. 80 Dec. 5. Des Vesanies, ou Maladies mentales, par J. R. JacM. Dubuisson. quelinDubuisson. Paris, i8x6. 80 Notice sur les grandes Tables logarithmiques et M. Prony. trigonometriques calculees au Bureau dui Cadastre sous la Direction dui Cit. Prony. Paris, An 9. 40 Eclaircissemens sur un Point de l'Histoire des Tableso trigonometriques par M. Prony. Paris, An IZ. 40 Compendium Florx Britannicas Auctore Jac. Edv. Sir J. E. Smith. Smith, Eq. Aur. M. D. Londini, i8i6 Wz The Philosophical Magazine for November. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Monthly Review for November. Mr. G. E. Griffith. The European Magazine for November. The Editor, Annals of Philosophy, No. 48. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Trattato dello Ariete idraulico del Caval. Brunacci. The Chevalier Brunacci. Milano, 1813. fol. Metereologisches Jahrbuch von 1813, von Canonicus C. A. Stark. Augustin Stark. Augsburg, s814. 40 Beschreibung der meteorologischen Instruments, &c. von Canonicus A. Stark. Augsburg, i815. 40 L 365 J 18-16s PRESENTS. DONORS. D1) c. si Essai sur l'Hygiene militaire des Antilles, par A. M. A. Moreau de Jonnes. Moreau de jonnes, Paris, I 8)6. 120 Precis historique sur PIrruption de la Fievre jaune 'a la Martinque en I 8oz. 120 Observations suir Is Geophages des Antilles. 1 20 Recherches expe'rimentales anatomiques, chemiques, M. J. A. Saissy. &c. par M. J. A. Saissy. Paris et Lyon, i8oS. I 20 AnalysIs of the Water from the ebbing and flowing Joseph Jekyll, Esq. Stream, discovered by borinig in the Harbour of Bridlington, A. D. 181 i, by MrF Hume. London, i8i6. 80 Experiences sur IaFlexibilite, la Force, et 1'Elasticite M. C. Dupin. des Bois, par Ch. Dupin. 40 Nova Acta Regio Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis, The Royal Society of Vol. VII. Upsal, j85i. Sciences at Upsal. A Charge delivered to the tClergy of the Diocese of The Lord Bishop of Carlisle, by Samuel, Lord Bishop of that Diocese, Carlisle. in June, i8I6. London. 40 Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. IV. The Geological Society. pt. i. London, i8i6. 40 Jan. 9. Preservativipolitici per tener lontanala Peste. Lettera Sig. F. Gianpetri. di Fran. Gianpetri all' Ecce-l Duca d'Acroli. Napoli, I 8i6. 40 Collezioni di Trattati appartenenti all' Jnvenzione Sig. Flauti. geometrica, di V. Flauti. Napoli, i8i5. so A Journal of Science and Arts. No. 4. The Managers of the Royal Institution. The Monthly Review for December, i8i6. Mr. G. F. Griflith. Annals of Philosophy, No. 49. Dr. TF. Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 224. Mr. A. Tilloch. The European Magazine for December. The Editor. The Nautical Almanack for I8 1 7 and i 8 i 8. 80 The Board of Longitude i6, Laurus Victorix et Oliva Pacis, decein Odis, a Joanne Mr. J. W. Remus. W. Remo. Leodii, 18I5, 40 A Meteorological Table extracted from the Register Lord Gray. kept at Kiinfauns Castle, N. B. J^an. 23. Nos. 9, 1o, 1I, i2, and 13 of the Addenda et CortiThe Hon.Francis Henry genda to the Edition of the Hippolytus Stephane. Egerton. phoros of Euripedes, by the Hon. F. H. Egerton, &c. &c. &-c. printed in 40 at the Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1796. eb. 6. The European M agazine for January. The Editor. The Monthly Review for January and Appendix to Mr. G. E. Griffith. Vol. LXXXI. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 22S5. Mr. Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, No. 50. Dr. Thomson. Lilawati, or a Treatise on Arithmetic and Geometry, Dr. John Taylor. by Bhlascara Acharya, translated from the original Sanscrit, by John Taylor, M.jD. &c. Bombay, 1816,. o0 366J 1817. PRESENTS. DONORS. Feb. iz. Recherche du Plan osculateur et du Centre de CourMr. Charles Dupir,. bure d'une Ligne courbe en un Point donnec 4e Memoire sur 1a Theorie generale du Trace des Routes, par M. C. Dupin 40 13Recherches et Observations sur la Nevralgie faciale, M. Meglin. par M. Meglin. Stratsbourg, i8i9. 80 Astronormisches Jahrbuch fur das .Jahr i 8 i 8, von J. Professor Bode. E. Bode, &c. &cG Berlin, 18i5. 80 zo. A Table exhibiting the Oscillations of the Barometer, Lord Gray. the Maximum and Minimum of the Thermometer, the Depth of the Rain, and the Course of the Wind, at Kinfauns Castle, North Britain. 27. The modern Practice of Physic, exhibiting the Cha, Dr. David Hosack. racters, Causes, Symptoms, Prognostics, morbid Appearances, and improved Method of treating the Diseases of all Climates, by Robert Thomas, M.D; with an Appendix by David Hosack, M.D. F. R. S. New York, 1817. 80 Mar. 6. Me-moires de la Classe des Sciences mathematiques et The Institute of France physiques de l'Institut de France, Annce i8I2, 2de Partie. Paris, x86. 40D Annals of Philosophy, No. 5j. Dr. T. Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. zz6. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Monthly Review tor February. Mr. G. E. Griffith. The European Magazine fo. February. The Editor. 13. A View of the Agricultural, Commercial, and FinanA. Bertolacci, Esq, cial Interests of Ceylon; with an Appendix containing some of the principal Laws and Usa. ges of the Candians, by Anthony Bertolacci, Esq. London, 18I7. 80 Testamen Nosologicum,by Whitelock Nichol, M. D. Dr. Whitelock Nichol. From the London Medical Repository. Vol.VII. Outlines of Geology; beingtheSubstanceof a Course Mr. W. T. Brande. of Lectures delivered in the Theatre of the Royal Instituti.on, by W, Thomas Brande. London, 1S 7. 80 20. Examinations of the Objections made in Britain Dr. J. G. Spurzheim. against the Doctrines of Gall and Spurzheim, by J. G. Spurzheim, M. D. Edinburgh1 1817, 27. Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de The Imperial Society of Moscow, Tomes I.-IV. Moscow, I81 v-1813. 8D Naturalists at Moscow. Synopsis Praxis Medico-Obstetricix quan Mosqux Guil. Mich. Richter. exercuit Guil. M. Richter. Mosquv, 1810o 40 Oratio pro Muiiere Prxsidis adeundo in Conventu. publico Societatis Physico-Medice apud Uoiversitatem Casaream Mosquensem, institutxdie 3 Decem. An. it8jo habita a Guil. M. Richter. Moscow, I8 Io. 1 2? Commentationes Societatis Physico-Medicax apud Universitatem Literarum Cesareaui Mosquensem institutx. Vo1. I. Pars i. 367 J 1817. PRESE NTS. DONORSo Commentationes ad Historiam et Philosophiam natuGul. Mich. Richter ralem spectantes. Moscow, I808. 4 Zoognosia Tabulis synopticis illustrata in Usumn Prof. G. D. Fischer. Pralectionum Academix Imperialis Medico-Chirurgicx Mosquensis edita, A uctore Gotthelf Fischer. Vol. 1. Moscow, I813. 40 Programme d'Invitation a la Seance publique de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes, contenant la Notice d'un Animal fossile de Siberie inconnu aux, par G. Fischer. Moscow, i808. 40 Notice des Fossiles du Gouverneement de Moscow, servant de Programme pour inviter les Membres de la Societe lmperiale des Naturalistes a la Seance publique du 25 Octobre, par le Professeur G. Fischer. Moscow, 18IC. 04 M3emoire sur la Sodalite da Vsllev par M. Le Le Comte Borkowski. Comte Stanislas D. Borkowski, Apr. 17. De Latitudine Speculk-e Manhemensis, Auctore Professor H. SchumaHI. j. Schumacher. Haunix, i816. cher. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. j. The Managers of the Royal Jnstitution, The Monthly Review for March. Mr. G. E. Griffiths, The Philosophical Magazine, No. 227c Mr. A. Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, No. 5z. Dr. Thomas TIom son The European Magazine, for March. The Editor. 24, Extracts relating to some new mechanical Inventions, The Baron von Dra' i by Baron von Drais, MS. An Inquiry into several Questions of Political EcoMr. Bertolacci, the Aunomy applicable to the present State of Great thor. Britain. London, 1817. 8s May 1. An Essay on the Principles and Construction of Colonel Sir Howard Military Bridges and the Passage of Rivers in Douglas. Military Operations, hy Col. Sir H. Douglas, Bart, F. R. S. &c. London,i 1 I 6. so The Monthly Review for April. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. Annals of Philosophy, No. 53. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. zzS8. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The European Magazine for April. The Editor. 8' Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. II. Horticultural Society of pt. S. London, 1817. 40 London. 15. Algebra, with Arithmetic and Mensuration, fron H. T. Colebrooke, Esq. the Sanscrit of Brahmegupta, and Bhascara, translated by Henry T. Colebrooke, Esq. F. R. S. &c. London, 1817. 40 Storia naturale e generale dell' Etna, del Canonico Agatino Recupero. GiuseppeRecupero. Catania, 18I5. 2 Vols. 40 11 Mappamondo di Fra Mauro Camaldolese, descritto D. Placido Zurla, ed illustrato da D. Placido Zurla. Venezia, 18o6. fol. A Treatise explanatory of a new System of Naval, Col. John Macdonald. Military, and Political Telegraphic Communicattion, by John Macdonald, Esq. F. R. S. &c. London, 1817. 80 .A;DCCCXVIIS 3 B 1i817< PRESENTS. DOrNORr. May 1S. 1Fu 1i Fuoco o l'Acqua che sottere Pompei ed Er. C. Lippi colano, di C. Lippi. Napoli, i8i6. 12 PFrincipi practici di Meccanica applicati all' Utilita publici, di C. Lippi. Napoli, 181I. 80 Corso di Scienze, Napoli, 18 17. 120 Sulla Necessita d'una ragionata Organizzione degli Affari facoltativi 6 scientifici nel Regno di Napoli, di C. Lippi. Fol. 5 copies. Exposizione de' Fatti che han avuto luogo nell' Aca demia di Scienzi di Napoli relativemente alla Scoperta geologico-ictorica, di C. Lippi. Fol. S. copies. Rapport fait a l'Jnstitut, par M. de Prony, sur tin M. Charles fupin. Memoire descriptif de plusieuirs Machines, 'a J'Usage de la Marine; construites h Rochefort d'apres les Projets de M. Hubert, par M. C. Dupin. The Statutes of the Realm, printed by Command of The Commissioners of His Majesty King George the Third, in pursuance Public Records. of an Address of the House.of Commons of Great Britain, from original Records and authenvic Manuscripts. Vol. I. and 111. I8 I6 and 18 :7. fol. Fcdera, Conventiones, Letterx et cujuscunque generis Acta publica inter Reges Anglix et alios quosvis Imperatores, Reges, Pontifices Principes, vel Comr munitates ab ingressu Gulielmi I. in Angliam, A. D. io66, ad nostra usque tempora habita aut tractata. Vol. 1. Pars. 1. et I1. Ab anno IO66 ad annum 1307. IJ817. fol. A-bbreviationis Iniquisitionum Retornatarum Supp le. menta, &c. i8i6. fol. Inquisitionum ad CapellamDomini Regis Retorna-, tarum qux in publicis Archivis Scotiae adhuc servantur Abbreviatio. Vol. III. Printed by Command of His Majesty, King George the Third, in pursuance of an Address of the House of Commons of Great Britain, i8i6. fol. Libri Censualis vocati Domesday Book Additamenta ex.Codic. Antiquiss. 1816. fol. Libri Censualis vocati Domesday Book Indices. xSi6. fol. ,7ine. 5. Annals of Philosophy, No. 54. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The European Magazine for May. The Editor. The Philosophical Magazine, No. z29. Mr. A. Tilloch. The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Vol. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. LXXXII. Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Ob. Dr. Robertson, by Diservatory, from May i, i 8 1 6, to May 1, 1817, by rection of the Trustees. the Rev. Abram Robertson, D. D. F. R. S. Saviof Dr. Radcliffe's w ill. Man Professor of Astronomy at Oxford. MS. fal, 1817. PRESENTS. DONORS, ,-ne 19. Hygibne militaire, ou Avis sur les Moyens de conser r. Kerckhoffs. ver la Sante des Troupes, par le Docteur J. R. Louis Kerckhoffs. Maestricht, I8I5. 8 Dissertation sur l'Air atmospherique et son Influence sur l'Economie animale, par le Dr. J. Rom. L. Kerckhoffs Mxstricht, I8I6 8. Traite de Mecanique celeste, par P. S. Laplace. The Count Laplace. Tome Troiseme. Paris, i8oz. 40 26. Anatomie der Roehren Holothurie des Pomseranz f3aron von Moll. farbigen Seesterns und Stein Seeigels verfasst von Dr. Friedrich Tiedman, nebst zehn kupfer Tafeln nach der Natur gezeichnet, von Dr. Martin Munz. Landshut, i8i6. fol. Calendarium Anni 141 I, cx Laminis ligneis perantiquis in Bibliotheca sua asservatis Arte lithogra. phie anno 1796, ab Aloisio inventm Descriptum edidit Car Erenbert L. B. De Moll. 40 On the Accidents which occur in the Coal Mines of Dr. John A. Paris. Cornwall, in Consequence of the premature Explo. sion of Gunpowder in blasting Rocks, and on the Methods to be adopted for preventing it, by a safety Bar, and an Instrument termed the shifting Cartridge, by John Ayrton Paris, M. D. Penzance. 80 ,uly 3.c Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of The Society of Artt. Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Vol. XXXIV. 18i7i 80 AAn Address delivered at the Annual Distribution of Rewards, May 27, S I17. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 6. The Managers of the Royal Institution. Ann-als of Philosophy, No. 55. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 230. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The European Magazine for June. The Editor. The Monthly Review for June. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The History of Java, by Thomas Stamford Raffles, Sir Thomas S. Raffles, Esq. London, I817. 2 vols. 4( Knt. Essai philosophique sur les Probabilites, par M. Le The Count Laplace. Comte Laplace, 3me edition. Paris, i8i6 80 IND EX TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANS-ACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1i87. A page Amnphibta, the circulation of the blood in this class described, 5 Ag onadta, notice taken of an error into which many naturalists hlave fallen, respecting the inhabitant of this shell, 297 Astrirngent vegetable substance, observations on one from China, 39 B BABBAGE, CETARLES, EsQ. Observations on the analogy whichl subsists between the calculus of functions and other branches of analysis, 197 fBarometer, a description of a thermometrical one for measuring altitudes, 183 Binomial theorem, note respecting the demonstration of it, inserted in the last volume ofthe Philosophical Trans. actions, 245 BRANDE, WILLIAM TnoMAs, EsQ, Observations on an astringent vegetable substance from China, 39 C Calculus of Fun clions, observations on the analogy which subsists between that and other branches of analysis, 197 a curious analogy which subsists between i and common algebra, H25 Celestial bodies, astronomical observations and experimnents INDETX. fiage tending to investigate their local arrangement in space, and to determine the extent and condition of the milky way, 302 Chank, the mnode in which the animal belonging to this shell sheds its eus, 298 Goichicuin uhtummale, farther observations on the use of it in gout, 262 Corpus luteum. notice taken of an error into which physioloM gists have fallen respecting it, 256 D DAVY, EDMUND, EsQ. On a new fulminating platinum, 136 DAVY, SIR HUMPHRPY, LL. D. Some researches on flame, 45 _____ --Some new experiments and observations on the combustion of gaseous mixtures, with an account of a method of preserving a continued light in mixtures of inflammable gases and air without flame,' 77 'DAVY, Joux, M, D. Observations on the temperature of the ocean and atmosphere, and on the density of sea-water, made during a voyage-to Ceylon, 275 Di ffrences. two general propositions in the method of them 234 DUPIN, CHARLES, (correspondant de l'lnstitut de France) de la structure des vaisseaux Anglais, consideree dans ses derniers perfectionnetnents, S6 E Equations, differential, in what the most extensive methods of integrating them, consists, 212 Equationfunctional, admits of three species of solutions, 210 F Fishes, the circulation of their blood described, 5 Fixed stars, on their parallax, 158, 353 Flame, some researches on it, 45 G Galvanism, its effects in restoring the due action oflie lungs, 22 employed with success in many cases of habitual asthma, _ _ _ 24 Gaseous mixtures, some new experiments and observations on their combustion, with an account of a method of preserving a continued light in mixtures of' inflammable gases and air without flame, -77 INDEX page Gases, on the effects of the mixture of different gases in ex., plosion and combustion, 58 Gastric glands, notice taken of a peculiar structure in thos e: of the Java swallow, 35 observations on those of the human stomach, and the contraction which takes place in that viscus, 347 Glossopora, a name given to a new genus of animals hitherto retained in the genus hirudo, _ 339 character of this genus, 340 Gout, farther observations on the use of the colchicum auturnuale in that complaint, 262 H HATCHETT, CHARLES, EsSQ. A description of a process) by which corn tainted with Must, may be completely purified, 36 Helix-janthina. deposits its ova upon its own shell, 299 HE-USCHiEL, SIR WILLI&M, KNT. GUELP. Astronomrical observations and experiments tendinoto investigate the local arrangement of the celestial bodies in space, and to determine the extent and condition of the milky way, 302 Hirudo complanata, and hirudo stagnalis, observations on those animals, now formed into a distinct genus under the name Glossopora, 339 /unlgarts, observations on it, 13 their mode of propagation, 14 HoiEii, SIR EVERARD, BART. An account of the circulation of the blood in the. class Vermes of Liinnzeus, and the principle explained in which it differs from that in the hi('her classes, 1 An account of some fossil remains of the rhinoceros, discovered by Mr. Whitby, in a cavern enclosed in the limestone rock from which hie is forming the Breakwater at Plymouth, 176 on. the passage of' the ovum from the ovariun to the uterus in women, 254 farther observations on the use of the colchicum autuinmnale in gout, Q262 The distinguishing characters between the ova of the sepia and those of the vermes stacea that live in water, explained, 297 Some account of the nests of INDEX. fage the Java swallow, and of thle grands tuat secrete the mucus of which they are composed332 -Observations on the gastric glands of' the hutman stomach, and the contraction which takes place in that viscus, 347 ,Java swallow, some account of the nests of that bird, and of the glands that secrete the mucus of which they are composed, 3 332 the nests of this bird believed by the Chinese to possess an aphrodisiac virtue, _ 332 an analysis of the substance of which the nestsiof this bird are formed, 336 a peculiarity in the structure of the gastric glands of this bird, _ 335 JOHNSON, JAMEs RAWLINS, M. D. Observations on the hirudo vulgaris, 13 -s--_ -_ Observations on the IliI rudo complanata and hirudo stagnalis, now formed into a distinct genus, 'under the name Glossopora, 339 K KNIGHT, THOMAS, Esq. Of the construction of logarithmic tables, _ 217 UZZU .........'Two general propositions in the method of diflerences, 234 Note respecting the demonstration of the binomial theorem inserted in the last volume of the Philosophical Traiisactions, 245 KNIGHT, THOMAS ANDREWj EsQ. Upon the extent of' the expansion and contraction of timber in different directions relative to the position of the mnedulla of the tree, 269 L LEACH, WILLIAM1 ELFORD, MJ. D. Observations on the genus ocythoE of Rafinesque, with a description of a new species, M _ 293 Logarithdic tables, of the construction of them, 217 INDEX. rage Lumbricus marinus, a description of the circulation of the blood in that animal, 2 terrestris, the circulation of the blood in this animal described, 3 M Mailles, de leur remplissage, -92 Mammalia, the double circulation of the blood in this class described, l 4 Menstruation, a case adduced to prove that it is not necessary to impregnation, 258 MilAyX way, of -its construction and extent, 321 MULLEiR1 his description of a contest between an hirudo and -a limax, 44 Must, a description of a process by which corn tainted with it, may be completely purified, 36 0 Ocean and atmosphere, observations Ion their temperature, and on the density of sea-water, made during a voya(ge to Ceylon, 275 Ocythoe of Rqfinesque, observations on that genus, with a de. scription oi a new species, 293 Cranchii, a description of it aiven, 295 considered as a species of sepia, andc not the orioginal inhabitant of the argonaut shell, 3o0 --in what respect it differs generically froin the polypus, 294 Oong poey, a description of a species of galls so called, used by the Chinese in dying black, 39 found to contain a greater quantity of tannin than any other vegyetable astringent in common use, 40 un1fit for th-e purposes of tanninT, from the want of extractive inatter, 43 Ovum, on its passaue from the ovarium to the uterus in women, _ -54 -from the human ovarium, description of it under a microscope, 258 P PHILIP, A. P. WILSON, M. D. On the effects of galvanism in restoring the due action of the lungs, 22 MDCCCXVII. 3 C INDEX. Platinum, on a new fulminating compound of it, 1356 Platinumfulminating, modes of obtaining it, 138 _________________-~ its properties 139 its composition, 146 _ ~ theory of its formation and decomposition, 155 POND, JOH.N, EsQ. On the parallax of the fixed stars, J,5 8 _____________an appendix to his Paper on parallax, 173 on the parallax of the fixed stars. 353 Porques ordinaires, leur remplacement par des porques obW liques, 102 Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from November 1816, to July 1317, 363 Profundity, or local situation of celestial objects in space, of a criterion for ascertaining it, SO8 R Rarefaction, its effect, by partly removing the pressure of the atmosphere, upon flame and explosion, O 46 on the effects of it by heat on combustion and explosion, 53 ,Rhinoceros, an account of some fossil remains of that animal, discovered by Mr. Whitby, in a cavern inclosed in the limestone rock from which he is forming the Breakwater at Plymoutlh, 176 S Sepia, the distinguishingr characters between the ova of that animal anid those of the vermes testacea that live in wGater, explained, 297 Snails, experiments made by the late Mr. John Hunter, to ascertain their mode of breeding, 299 Starlight, of its equalisation, 309 Stars, of their local situation in the heavens, 303 -_ of a standard by w hich the relative arrangement of them tmay be exalmined, 304 a comparison of the order of their magnitudes with the order of their distances, 306 INDEX. fiage T Table mountain, notice taken of a curious phenomenon on the summit ofit, 289 Temperature of the sea, its diurnal change nearly as great as that of the incumbent atmosphere, _ 284 is comparatively low where the water is shallow, 286 is influenced by the effects of currents, 2 8 Thermometer, the use of it at sea strongly recommended, 291 Timber, upon the extent of its expansion and contraction in different directions relative to the position of the medulla of the tree, 269 TODD, JOHN T EsQ. An account of some experiments on the torpedo electricus, at la Rochelle, 32 Torfpedo electricus, an account of some experiments made on it at la Roch'elle, 32 V Vaigrage, son suppression, 99 Vaisseaux, Anglais, de leur structure, consideree dans ses derniers perfectionnements, _ 86 JYaisseaux, ses forces latentes sont-elles augmentees par le noiuveau systeme 103 Vermes, an account of the circulation of the blood in that class, 1 Jermes of Linne-us, may be divided into five distinct orders, 6 Vision, natural, of its extent, 313 telescopic, of its extent, I 8 natural and telescopic, application of their extent to the probable arrangement of the celestial bodies in space, 320 'V WOLLASTON, FRANCIS JOHN HYDE, B. D. A description of a thermometrical barometer for measuring altitudes, 1 ss From the Press of W. BULAMER Ce7 Co. Cleveland-row, St. 7ames's, London,, 