Y. Pirther Particulars respecEng tbe Observatory at Benaress of wbich an Account, zuith Plates I'S gtren b.y Si-r Rober-t Barker, in the LXVIIth Vol. of the Philosophical Transactions. In a Letter to William Marsdens Esq. F. R. S. fro-m John Lloyd Williams, Esq. of Berlares. Read January 31, :1793-e DEAR SIR, 1 conformittr with yout request, I have snow the pleasure of nsending you an account of the measurement of -the different -parts of the Baenares obsenatory, called ma!un-mu7tdel) as taken by myself, with a two-foot rllle, and a rod of ten feet very ;exactly divided. An aecounFt tof the use of the different in zstruments, though very imperit, was giergn me on ffie spotS by several learned 5Brafhmins who attended me; one of whom is professor of astronotmy iLa the new founded college at Be mres. Tlley -all agreed that this obseraratory never srag useds nor did they5thqnk it capable d being used, for -any nice observations, axld b;elieve thtat it was built more fbr -ostentattion than Sthe yomotion of useful skn-owledge. In m-yFinquwiry into tlle parlars of-the building,I have Ubeen assisted by nzy friend t e Nabob ALI ISSAS1M KAUN) satzd I believe this account :Rnay be rqlied £>n fMr v7ILLIAMS'S ,further ParticuZawrsA. The larg-e quadrant, c:alled in Arabic, IzootoopbedeS in Hindoo, droop the nam-e of the north polar starw This instrument is built of stone, fixecI in InortarS arld clamped with iron in a very clumsy manller; between-most of the stones are spaces of It6 part of an -inch. The-stsileS in its lellgth from north tc)-south, measured 39 feet 62 inches ^ tlle height of thEe south endN feet At inches S -height of tlle nortll endS 22 -feet firlches. This stile consists of two walls 1 X 2 inclles thickn wath a flight of 27 steps between, and on the outer edge of each of these walls are.fixed two iron rings. TIle distance between the Etwo riws is , feet 8g, ,inches X ,from the uppermost.to the.top, 18 fbet 8 inches7 from ,the lower one to th.e bottoma ,, feet and 2 an inch. 'both sides are n.early.alike. The r.ings . are, each of .threln, 4 o.f .an .incll in thicklless, and thetr..are.let into.the wall hetweentwo stones; the holes tllrEough,which the object .is to be viewed. are Is6..ths of an inch.in diametex,-58ths of.which space, in each,.is covered by..the. pro,}ection,of the..storle. Tlle aradius ;.ofone of the quadrants, on .which the :hour lines .are marked, .from the out,e.r,;,par..t of-.the wall ,.of the Sstile to the irane.r edge of the. arc, i.s :9 vfeet and 4ths of an i.ra.ch; that of the othern g feet one inch. fThe width of the rim of the quadrantsn . . . . which are.inclinedVto..a li.n.e perpendicular.to the shadow fal,ling from the gnom.on, is , feet 104 inclles. ^ The quadrant .is div:ided into, 6 ,ggr.ries,. and .,each ,gurry into wo pulls. ; On the outer wall of the stile, -fion.ti-ng the east, at.the* The refierences are to the plates anrlexed to Sir ROBERT BARKER'S accountO respectisg ttje Obsertatory at ECenares.height of to feet and to inches from the bases are fixed two iron pins each forming a centre, from which circular lines are drawn, intersecting each other, as in the annexed repret sentatlon i \/ with a parallel line drawn urlderneath. suhich has thevhour, or gurry and pull lines marked on it. The wall is plastered ; and there. zIre, on other edifices fronting the east similar Iines drawn S the use of w.illich, .I urlderstoocI7. was to ascertain the.time of the day B. An equinoctiS diaI, called gent-rayte.-It is a circular stone fronting north and south, but inclining t.owards. the south The diameter of the south Xce is 2 feet 24 inches, a per-pendicular line falling from the top will give one foot distance fiom the bottom of the inclined plane. In the south front of this stands a slnall stone pillar distance tsJ feet 8 inches; a line drawn from the.centre of this dial to the point on the top. Of the pillar will by its shadowS giv:e the time of the day.. ()n the nadir side of this dial>the ston.e is 4 feet 7 inches.. diameter ;. on the:. centre of wllich is a small iroll stile with a hole in it perpendicular to its plane.; and in the perpendicular line of the chord are placed two snzall irons. A. line passing through the. hole in the st;ile, and each end applied. to the foretnentioned ironsa gives a shadow which denoWsthe hour &c. C. A brass circle in tlle line of the equatorS icing northJ Mr. WILLIAMS'SftErther Particularsand south. It has a tnoveable index, turning on a pierat in the centre; the circle is divided illtO 36O degrees7 or unse9 stlbdivided again irlto 60', and again into 6'1, and intce Aths. This instrument is called cvnd-brzt, or cranti-brit, buic I could not lear< the use of it. D. A double circular wall, with a round pillar in the centre, as described by Sir ROBERT BARKER. The floor being abroken, and uneven, renders the height of the outer wall irregular, but it measured from 8 feet 1 inch, to 8 feet g ilachesX diameter inside, 27 feet 62 inches; thickness of the wall, 2 feet. The inner wall is w8 feet within, thickness of this wall, 1 foot Sj inches. The diameter of the centre pillar, 3 feet yg inchese At the four cardinal points, on the top of the outer wallS are four iron pins, with small holes in them through which, the Pundits say, wires are designed to be drawn at the time of observation, which wires irltersect each other at the centre of the pillar. The tops of both the walls are graduated, or divided into degrees; and it is said, that by the shadow of these wires falling on the walls the surl's declination is found. In addition to the foregoing, which are described in the plates alluded to, on the south-east quarter of the building is a large black stone, 6 feet 2 inches diameter, fronting the west, it stands on an inclined plane. I could not learn the use o-f this instrumentv but was informed that it never had beerl completed There is no other buildirlg of any consequence, nor does it appear there ever was. I fear, tllat from the want of sufficient knowleclge of the c;enc.e -ofhastronomys I have not been able to describe t8e respecSg t2e ObsFvatory at Benares49diffierent-instrumentss and their uses, satisfictorily ;lloweveryou may rely on the measurements being taken with the gr ateg exattuess. I;Tor; the bllowingdesqMiooll vI am IndWeSted to our chief magistrate,< tlw sbob ALI HRASIM K-AUN .# c; The++area, oreEpacecoprismgt the svwhole of the buildings and instruments, is called in Hindoo, maun-rrz;undwl; the GEllS and all tlle lower part of the area, were b.uilt many years ago, of vvhich there remains no chronological account by the Rajah MAUN-SING br-:*erepose of liSoly men, and pilgrimsy who come to perform their ablutions in the Ganges, on the banks of which the buildingp stands. On the top of this the observatory was built, by the Rajah JEYSINGS for observing th-e starss and other heavenly bodies; it wasbegun in 1794, Sumbut, and, it is said, was finished in rtwo years. The RajalE dled in 180o Sumbut. sc The.design was drawn: by JAGGERNAUT,;and executed unkler the -di>>ctlon of SADASHU MANAJIN; lout the head worknan wasWIAHON, the son of MAHON apot-maker :of Jeypoor. The pundit's pay was five rupees per day, the workmenss twot rupe-e-s, besides presents; some got lands, or villaps, worth or 4Oo rupees yearly value t others money" I am, &c. Benares . . pfareh ,25,,, 1792* 3. I,L. WILLIAMS;.MDCCXC I 1 f .'1-I 