Enquiries and Directions For the Ant-Iles, or Caribbe-Islands. In Numb. 23. some Quaeries were publish'd for some parts of the West-Indies, and those for other parts reserv'd to another opportunity; which presenting it self at this time, we shall here set down such Enquiries for the Ant-Iles, as were collected out of the Relations of several Authors writing of those Islands, such as are the Natural History of the Ant-Iles, written by a French-man; the History of the Barbadoes by Lygon, &c. to the end,that these Queries being considered by such curious persons as frequent those places, and delight in making careful Observations, they may from thence return such Answers, as may either confirm or rectifie the Relations concerning them already extant. The Enquiries are these: I. Of Vegetables. 1. WHether the Juice of the Fruit of the Tree Junipa, being as clear as any Rock-water, yields a brown Violet-dye, and being put twice upon the same place, maketh it look (635) look black? And whether this Tincture cannot be got out with any Soap, yet disappears of it self in 9 or 10 days? And whether certain Animals, and particularly Hogs and Parrots, eating of this Fruit, have their Flesh and Fat altogether tinged of a Violet colour? 2. Whether Ring-doves, that feed upon the bitter Fruit of the Acomas Tree, have their Flesh bitter also? 3. Whether the Wood of the Acajou Tree, being red, light, and well scented, never rots in Water, nor breeds any Worms, when cut in due season? And whether the Chests and Trunks made thereof, keep Clothes, placed therein, from being Wormeaten? 4. Whether the Leaves of a certain Tree, peculiarly called Indian Wood, give such a haut-goust to Meat and Sauces, as if it were a composition of several sorts of Spices? 5. Whether there be such two sorts of the Wood, call'd Savonier, or Soap-wood, of the one of which the Fruit, of the other the Root serveth for Soap? 6. Whether the bark of the Paretuvier-wood tanns as well as Oak-bark? 7. Whether the Root of the Tree Laitus, being brayed and cast into Rivers, maketh Fishes drunk? 8. Whether the Root of the Manioc is so fertile, that one Acre planted therewith, yields so plentiful a crop, as shall feed more people than six Acres of the best Wheat? 9. What Symptoms do usually follow upon taking of the Juice of Manioc, or upon the eating of the Juice with the Root, and what effects are thereby produced upon the Body, that infer it to be accounted a rank Poison? Whether any worse Effects, than may be caused by meer Crudity, as by Turnips or Carrots eaten raw, and much more by raw Flesh, in those that are not used thereto; or at most, some such nauseous or noxious quality,as might be corrected in the taking and the preparation; which correction, if effected, might perhaps render the Bread, made of this Manioc, much heartier, the Juice being likely to carry off the Spirit and strength, leaving the remainder spiritless? 10. The (636) 10. The Palmetto-Royal being said by Ligon to be a very tall and streight Tree, and so tough, that none of them have been seen blown down,and withall hollow;in all which respect they may serve for special uses, and particularly for long Optick Tubes; 'tis much desired, that the largest and longest pieces of stem that can be stow'd in a Ship, may be sent over. 11. Whether the Oyl expressed out of the Plant Ricinus or Palma Christi, be used by the Indians to keep them from Vermin? To send over some of that Oyl. 12. Whether in the passage of the Isthmus from Nombre de Dios to Panama, there is a whole Wood full of Sensitive Trees, of which, as soon as they are touch'd, the Leaves and Branches move with a ratling noise, and wind themselves together into a roundish Figure? 13. Whether there be certain Kernels of a Fruit like a white Pear-plum, which are very Purgative and Emetick, but having the thin film which parteth them into halves taken out, they have no such Operation at all, and are as sweet as a JordanAlmond? 14. To send over some of the Roots of the Herb, call'd by our French Author L'herbe aux flesches (the Dart-herb,) which being stamped, is said to have the vertue of curing the wounds made with poison'd Darts. 15. To send some of the Grain of the Herb Musk, putting it up carefully in a Box; which being done, it will keep its Musk scent. 16. To send over a Specimen of all Medicinal Herbs, together with their respective Vertues, as they are reputed there: Item particularly, the Prickle-with at the Barbadoes; Macao, Mastictree, Locust, Black-wood, yellow within; Five-sprig, Tidle-wood, White-wood, Barbadoes-Cedar. 17. Whether the fruit Mancenille of the Mancenillier-Tree, though admirably sair and fragrant, yet is fatal to the Eater, and falling into the Water, kills the Fishes that eat thereof, except Crabs, who yet are said to be dangerous to eat when they have fed upon this fruit? Whether under the Bark of this Tree is contained a certain glutinous Liquor as white as Milk, very dangerous, so that is you chance to rub it, and this Juice spurt (637) spurt upon the Shirt like a burning; if upon the naked flesh, it will cause a swelling; if into the eye, blindness for several days? And whether the shadow of this Tree be so noxious, that the bodies of Men reposing under it, will swell strangely? And whether the Meat it self, that is boil'd with the fire of this Wood, contracts a malignity, burning the Mouth and Throat? Further, whether the Natives use the milky juice of this Tree, and the Dew falling from it, and the juice of its Fruit, in the composition of the Poison they infect their Arrows with? II. Of Animals and Infects. 18. WHether the skin of the Tatou, and the little bone in his Tail, do indeed, as is related, cure deafishness, and pains of the Ears? And whether this Animal be proof not only against the Teeth of Dogs, but also against Bullets? 19. Whether the Birds called Canides, be so docile, that some of them learn to speak not only Indian, but also Dutch and Spanish, singing also the Ayres in the Indian Tongue as well as an Indian himself? And whether the Bird Colibry have a scent as sweet as the finest Amber and Musk? Both which is affirmed by our French Author. 20. To procure some of the fat of the Birds, called Fregati, reputed to be very Anti-paralytical and Anti-podagrical. 21. To send over a Land-pike, which is said to be like the water-pike, but that instead of Fins it hath four feet, on which it crawls. 22. Whether the skin of the Sea-wolf, which they otherwise call the Requiem, be so ruff and stiff, that they make Files of them, fit to file Wood? And whether it be usually guided by another Fish, that is beautified with such a variety of curious and lively Colours, that one would say, such Fishes were girt with Necklaces of Pearls, Corals, Emerauds, &c. Y y y 23. Whe(638) 23. Whether the skin of Sea-Calfs, otherwise call'd Lamantins, be so hard, when dry'd, that they serve the Indians for Shields? 24. Whether the Ashes of the Fresh-water Tortoises do hinder the falling of the Hair, being powder'd therewith? 25. Whether the Land-Crabs of these Islands do at certain times hide themselves all under ground for the space of 6 weeks, and during that time change and renew their shells? And whether in hiding themselves thus, they do so carefully cover themselves all about with Earth, that the opening thereof cannot at all be perceived, thereby shutting out the Air, by which they might else be annoyed when they are quite naked, after they have shed their shells, there then remaining no other cover on them, but a very thin and tender skin, which by little thickeneth and hardeneth into a Crust, like the old? 26. Whether the Serpents in those parts, that have black and white spots on their backs, be not venomous? To send over some of such Serpents skins. 27. To send over some of the skins of those huge Lizards, they call Ouayamaca, which, when come to their full bigness, are said to be five foot long, Tail and all: And especially to send some of those that are said to have the scales of their skins so bright and curious, that at a distance they resemble Cloth of Gold and Silver. 28. Whether the shining Flies, called Cucuyes, hide almost all their light, when taken, but when at liberty, afford it plentifully? 29. Whether there be a sort of Bees brown and blew, who make a black Wax, but the Honey in it whiter and sweeter than that of Europe. 30. Whether in those parts the Indians do cure the bitings of Serpents by eating fresh Citron Pills, and by applying the Unguent, made of the bruised Head of the wounding Serpent, and put hot upon the wound? 31. Whether the Wood lice in those Countries generated out of rotten Wood, are able, not only to eat through Trunks in a day or two, and to spoil Linnen, Clothes, and Books, (of which last they are said to spare only what is written or printed;) (639) printed;) but also to gnaw the props which support the Cottages, that they fall? And whether the remedy against the latter mischief is, to turn the ends of the Wood that is fixed in the ground; or to rub the Wood with the Oyl of that kind of Palma Christi (a Plant) wherewith the Natives rub their Heads to secure them from Vermin. 32. Whether that sort of Vermin called Ravets, spare nothing of what they meet with (either of Paper, Cloths, Linnen, and Woollen) but Silk and Cotton? 33. Whether the little Cirons called Chiques, bred out of dust, when they pierce once into the Feet, and under the Nails of the Toes, do get ground of the whole body, unless they be drawn out betimes? And whether at first they cause but a little itch, but afterwards having pierced the skin, raise a great inflamation in the part affected, and become in a small time as big as a Pease, producing innumerable Nits, that breed others. As to Inquiries, concerning Earths and Minerals, they may be taken out of Numb. 19. and as for such, which concern the constitution of the Air, Winds, and Weather, they are to be met with in Numb. 11. To which latter sort may be added touching Hurricans, Whether those terrible Winds, which are said to have formerly happen'd in those parts but once in 7 years, do now rage once in two years, and sometimes twice, yea thrice in one year? And whether they are observed never to fall out but about the Autumnal Equinox; as 'tis affirmed, that in the East-Indies beyond the Line, they never happen but about the Vernal? Whether they are preceded with an extream Calm, and the Rain which falls a little before be bitterish and salt? And whether Birds come timely down by whole flocks from the Hills, and hide themselves in the Valleys, lying close to the ground, to secure themselves from the Tempest approaching? Y y y 2 An 