[609] P R E S E N T S RECE1VED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, From November i8i8 to Jfuly 181g. WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS. 1Z81$. PRESENTS. DONORS. Nov. Effemeridi Astronomiche di Milano per l'Anni SS.Francesco Carlini and i8gx618i7 8I ., con Appendice. 80 Enrico Brambelli. Flora lBatava, No. 23 to 5 I, Amsterdam. 40 His Majesty the King of the Netherlands. Traite complet de Mecanique appliqu'e aux Arts. M. J. A. Borgnis. _Composition des Machines, par J, A. Borgnis, Paris, i8 i 8. 40 The Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, The Royal Irish AcaVol. XIII. 1)ublin, I8i8. 4? demy. Transactions ot the Horticultural Society of The Horticultural SoLondo'n, Vol II. Part S. London, 1817. 49 ciety. Dbservations Astronomiques f~ites a 1'.Observatoire Mr. Plana. de l'Academie Royale des Sciences, pair M. Plana. 40 Kong]. Vetenskaps Academiens IHandlingar f6r The Royal Academy of Ar 1817. Stockholm, 1817. 80 Sciences of Sweden. An Elementary Treatise on Astronomy. Vol II. RobertWoodhouse, Esq containing Physical Astronomy, by Robert Woodhouse. Cambridge, 1 8 i 8 81 Lettere concernente l'Anfeatro di Verona. Verona, Count Bartolomeo Gui1817. 0 glai Cappella dell' Famiglia Pellegrini esistente nella Chiesa di San Bernardino di Verona, i 8 I 6. fol. Ittiolitologia Veronese del Museo Bozziano. Verona, i8I6. fol, The Monthly Review for June, July, August, SepMr. G. E. Griffiths. tember, and October, and Appendix to Vol. 86. Annals of Philosophy, No.,67 to 71. DIr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 24Z to 246. Mr. Alexander Tilloch, C 510 J 18 It8 PRESEENTS. DONORS. NovE. j. The European Magazine from June to October. The Editor. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. IX. Part The Medical and ChPii. London, I8i8. 80 rurgical Society. Deux Traites de Physique Mecanique, publiees par M. Prevost. Pierre Prevost. Geneve et Paris, i8i8. 80 De la Mineralogie, par J. A. H. Lucas. Paris, Mr. J. A. H. Lucas. 18X8. 80 Journal of Science and the Arts, No.]o and II. The Managers of the Royal Institution. On the Safety Lamp for. Coal Miners, with some Sir Hun)phry Davy, Bart. Researches on Flame, by Sir Humphry Davy. London, i 8 i 8. 80 An Introductory Lecture delivered at the Royal J. H. Curtis, Esq. Dispensary for the Diseases of the Ear to a Course on the Anatomy, Physiology, and Diseases of that Organ, by J. H. Curtis, Esq. London, i8iS. 80 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of The Academy of NatuPhiladelphia, No. 6. Philadelphia, i8I7. 8? ral Sciences of Philadelphia. Pathological and Surgical Observations on DisB. C. Brodie, Esq. eases of the Joints, by B. C. Brodie, F. R. S. London, 8Xi8. 8? 12. Vetusta Monumenta. Vol. V. plates 19-P"025. The Society of Antiquaquaries. Flora Batava, No. 52. His Majesty the King of the Netherlands. Hypocrisy unveiled and calumny detected in a ReThe Author. view of Blackwood's Magazine. Edinburgh, i8iS. 80 Dec. to. Historia e Memorias da Academia R.. das Sciencias The Royal Academy of de Lisboa. Tom. III, IV, V. Lisbon. 4t Sciences of Lisbon. Memorias Economicas da Academia Real das _ Sciencias de Lisboa da Agricultura, das Artes, e da Industria em Portugal e suas Conquistas. Tom. IV and V. Lisbon. So Memorias de Litteratura Portugueza publicadas pela Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. Tom. V11. and Tom VIII. Part i. Lisbon. 80 AnOAccount of the History and present State of Dr. John Bostock, Galvanism, by John Bostock, M. D. London, Iis8. Annals of Philosophy, No. 72. Dr. Thomas Thomson, The Philosophical Magazine, No. 247. Mr. Alexander Tilloch The Monthly Review for November. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazine for November. The Editor. An . Improved System of Telegraphic CommuhiThomas Lynn, Esq. cation, by Thomas Lynn, z Edition. London, i8i8. 120 A concise Narrative of Facts connected with the Dr. Robert Tytler. Disease whichoccurred in the District of Jessore, l818. P'RESENTS. DONORS. Dec. xo. during the Months of August and September, 1817, together with observations upon its Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment, by Robert Tytler, M. D. &c. Calcutta. 8? 17. A Treatise on Marine Surveying, in two parts, by Murdoch Mackenzie, corrected and republished with a Supplement, by James Horsburgh, F.R.S. London 1819. 8? The Asiatic Journal, No. 36. The Editors. Memoire sur la Rapport du Pouce de Fontainier, M. de Prony. avec l'once d'eau Romaine moderne et le Quinaire antique, &c. par M. Prony. 80 Note sur un nouveau Moyen de regler la Duree des Oscillations des Pendules, par M. de Prony. 40 Nuovo Stabilimento di Bagni d'Acqua minerali e S. Pietro Paganini. inedicata in Oleggio. Lugano, i8i8. 80 L'Attraction detruite par le Mouvement primorThe Count de Zuylen dial, ou Theorie nouvelle dui Cours des Corps ccde Nyevelt. lestes et du Mouvement, par M. le Comte de Zuylen de Nyevelt. Paris, 1818 I 12 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of The Academy of NatuPhiladelphia, No. 7 and 8. 80 ral Sciences of Philadelphia. Memorie della Societa Italiana delle Scienze resiLa Societa Italiana. dente in Modena, Tomo XVIII. Fascicolo i0 delle Memorie di Matematica. Essays on the Proximate Mechanical Cause of the Sir Richard Phillips. general Phenomena of the Universe. by Sir Richard Phillips. London, i8i88. 120 Primitime Florae Essequeboensis adjectis DescriptioM. G. F. W. Meyer. nibus centum circiter Stirpium novarum Observationibus criticis, Auct. Georgio FredericoWilhelmo Meyer. Gottingm, i818. 40 Memoire sur le Systeme Metrique des anciens M. E. Jomard. Egyptiens, contenant desRecherches sur les Connoissances geometriques et sur les Mesures des autres Peuples de l'Antiquitie, par E. Jomard. Paris, 18 17'. fol. Icones ad illustrandam Ariatomen comparatim, Dr. J. A. Albers. Auct. J. A. Albers. Lipsike, i,8i8. fol. 24. F. G. W. Struve, Observationes Astronomicas inProfessor F. G. W. stitutas in Specula Universitatis Caesareae DorStruve. patensis. Vol. I. Observationes, 1814 et 18I5, una cum Reductionibus. Dorpiti, 1817. 40 Nuovo Metodo di dividere gl' Instrumenti di MaSig. Tito Gonnella. tematica, Saggio del Sig. Tito Gonnella di Firenze. Pistoj a, i8 i6. so 1819. Jan. 1 4. Del Movimento e della Misura delle Acque cor: 512 J 1819. PRESENTS. DONORS. ran. 14. renti, Memoria Idraulica di Antonio Tadini. S A Tdn Milano, x8i6. 40Sg. Antonio Tadii. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. IX. Part TheMedicalandChirur2. 80 gical Society of Loudon. New View of Society.-Tracts relative to this Mr. Robert Owen. subject, with an Account of the public Proceeding connected with the subject which took place in London in july and tlugust, 18I7, by Robert Owen. London, i8x8. 8? The Philosophical Magazine, No. 248. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, No. 73. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Monthily Review for December. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The Et opean Magazine for December. The Edito'. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 12. The Managers of tie Royal Institution. A Chart of fHanca and Gaspar Straits. James Horsburgh, Esq. Notice Biographique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, The Rev. S. Weston. 1818. 80 xi. Elements of Medical Logic, illustrated by practiSir Gilbert Blane Bart, cal Proofs and Examples, including a Statement of the Evidence respecting the contagious nature of tIhe Yellow Fever, by Sir Gilbert Blatie, Bart. London, I8I9. 8? A Brief Sketch of the Causes whi h first gave rise Dr. James Curry. to the late high Pricg of Grain in Great Britain, and to the consequent apparent necessity for the Corn Bill, with some Proposals for a more equitable Taxati!n. by James C utrry, M.D. F. A. S. &c. London, I815. Io An Essay on the Origin and Operation of the Dry Mr. RobertM'William. Rot, with a view tO its prevention or cure; to which are ;annexed Suggestions on t e tultivation of Forest Trees, and an Abstract of the several Forest Laws, &.c. by Robert M'Williarn. London, i8s18. 40 28. Prodromro di Ricerche sperimentale sul Gas illki Professor Aldini. minante applicata a' varn oggetti di privata e di publica Economia, del Cav. Gioval:nni Aldini. Milano, 1818. I ? Saggio Esperimentale sul esterna Applicazione del Vapore dell' Acqua dei Bagni e delle filando a Seta,con alcuneOsservazioni -ul Bagn) a vapore, del Cav. Giov. Idini. Milano, i 8 i 8. 8? .Saggio sulla L va Idrauica nuovamnamente applicata alla Ma-ifatture ed ,Ale rti. 40 American Medical Botany, being a ('ollection of Dr. Ralph Bigelo the native Medicinal Plan ts of the U1 ited States, ,containing their B(otanical History, andI Chemi. cal Analysis; and Properties, and Uses in Medi.cine, Diet, and the Arts, with coloured EngravE 513 J l 8 I9. PRESENTS. DONORSO ings, by Jacob Bigelow, M. D. Boston, IS 187. Vol. I. Part i and 2, 8 Feb. 4. The Philosophical Magazine, No. z24. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, No. 7+. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix Mr. G. E. Griffiths. to Vol. 87 The European Magazine for January. The Editor. The first Part of a Letter to the Parisians and the Hon. F. H. Egerton. French Nation upon Inland Navigation, containing a Defence of the public character of His Grace, Francis Egerton, lateDuke of Bridgewater, by the Hon. Francis Henry Egerton, and including sorne Notices and Anecdotes concerning Mr. James Brindley. Paris, i8S. 8? Trai't complet de Mecanique appliqute aux Arts, M. J. Borgnis. contenant l'Exposition methodique des Theories et des Experiences les plus utiles pour diriger le choix, l'invention, la construction, et l'emploie de toutes les Especes de Machines, par M. J. A. Borgnis. Des Machines employees dans les Constructions diverses. Paris, i818. 40 Recherches sur la Mesure des Temperatures et sur Messrs. Dulong et Petit, les Lois de la communication de la Chaleur, par MM. Dulong et Petit. Paris, iSi8. 40 x8, Memoires de la Classe des Sciences matliematiques The Royal Institute of et physiques de l'Institut de France. Annees, France. 1813, 1814, 1815. Paris, i8i8. 40 Memoires de l'Academie Royale des Sciences de 1'Institut de France, Anntee I 8 i 6 Paris, i 8 j 8. 40 Histoire et Memoires de l'Institut Royal de France, Mr, Silvestre de Sacy. Classe d'Histoire et de Litterature ancienne. Tome 3eeme et 4erme. Paris, x8 8. 40 Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliotheque du Roi et autres Bibliotheques, plublies par l'Institut Royal de France. Tome Xeme. Paris, x 8 i 8. 40 Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and The American Academy Sciences. Vol. IV. Part i. Cambridge, i818. of Arts and Sciences, 40 Report to the Governors of the Veterinary College William Sewell, Esq. of London, by W. Sewell, Assistant Professor. London, i8i8. so 25. The Transactions of the Horticultural Society of The Horticultural So London Vol. III. Part 2. London, 1819. 40 ciety. 4jww) okl 4j\ ' at A' > Lieut. C:ol. John Baillie. ok) 0or Sixty rables elucidatory of the first part of a Course of Lectures on the Grammar of the Arabic Language, delivered in the College of Fort William in Bengal, during the first : 514J l8I9 19 P RESENTS. DONORS. year of its Institution, by John Baillie, Calcutta, ISoI. fol. Marchb . Annals of Philosophy, No. 75. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 250. Mr. Alexander Tilloch, The Monthly Review for February. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazine for February. The Editor. Observations on the Claims of the Moderns to G. D. Yeats, Esq. some Discoveries in Chemistry and Physiology, by G. D. Yeats, M. D. London, 1798. 80 A Statement of the early Symptoms which lead to _ _ the Disease termed Water in the Brain, &c. by G. D. Yeats, M.D. London, i8i5, 8 , and Appendix to ditto. London, i819. 8? 8. Flora Batava, No. 5 3. His Majesty the King of the Netherlands. Lectures on Physiology, Zoology, and the Natural W. Lawrence, Esq. History of Man, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, by W.. Lawrence, F. R. S. London, 1819. 80 Cours theorique et pratique d'Instruction 6l6men. Mr. P. R. F. Butes de la taire applicable a toute methode d'enseignement Sarthe. individuel ou collectif, et specialement 'a la Me'thode d'enseignement mutuel a l'usage de l'Ecole Polytechnique, &c. par P. R. F. Butes de la Sarthe. Paris, i8i8. z Vols. A System of Practical Nosology, to which is preDr. David Hosack. fixed a Synopsis of the Systems of Sauvages, Linnxus, &c. by David Hosack, M.D. New York, i 8?8. An Essay on the Chemical History and Medical Dr. Alexander Marcet. Treatment of Calculus Disorders, by Alexander Marcet, M. D. F. RES. London, i818. 8? z5. Histoire de l'Astronomie -du Moyen Age, par M. Mr. Delambre. Delambre. Paris, 18i9. 40 Reports of the British and Foreign Bible Society, The British and Foreign with Extracts of Correspondence from the Bible Society. Years i80o to i8t.8. London, I810-18I8. 6 Vols. 80 Forty-seven Volumes containing the whole or parts of the Holy Scriptures, in 39 different Languages. 40, 80, and I 2 April i. An Astronomical Catechism, or Dialogues between Mrs Catherine Vale a Mother and her Daughter, by Catherine Vale Whitwell. Whitwell. London, i8i8. 80 Annals of Philosophy, No. 76. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 251 . Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review for March. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The Quarterly Journal of Litterature, Science, and The xManagers of the the Arts, No. 1 3. Royal Institution. A Letter to the Right Hon. F. Robinson, M. P. Dr. Aug. B. Granville. Am. &c. on the Plague and Contagionl with reC 515 bi19. P RiSENTS. DON ROPS' ference to the Quarantine Laws, by Aug. Bozzi Granville, M.D. &c. London, 18 I9. 8Q 22. EHydrauliska Fors6k anstallda vid Fahlu Grufva Mark Beaufoy, Esq. Aren i 81i 8i5, af P. I.agerhjelm, J. H. af Forselles och G. S. Kallstenius ph Bruks Societetens Bekostnad, Forsta Delen. Stockholm, 18I8. Th6orie Elamentaire de la Botanique, ou ExposiM. A. P. Candollea tion des Principes de la Classification Naturelle et de i'Art de d6crire et d'etudier les Ve'getaux, par A. P. de Candolle. Paris, i8i9. 8? The Hunterian Oration delivered in the Theatre John Abernethy, Esq. of the Royal College of Surgeons, by John Abernethy, Esq. London, 1819. 80 A Defence of the Church and Universities of EngSir James Edward Smithland against such injurious advocates as Professor Monk and the Quarterly Review for January, 1819, by Sir James Edward Smith, M. D. F. R. S. P.L. S. London, i89. so 29. Remarks on the Account of the late Voyage of DisCaptain Edward Sabine. covery to Baffin's Bay, published by Capt. John Ross, R. N. by Capt. Edward Sabine, Royal Artillery. London, 18T9. 80 Annals of Philosophy, No. 77. Dr. Thomas Thomson. May 6. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 25z. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review for April. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazine for April. The Editor. Ele'mens de Geometrie a trois dimensions, Partie M. Hachette. synthetique.-The'orie des Lignes et des S urfaces Courbes, par M. Hachette. Paris, 18 I7. 80 Seconde Supplement de la Geometrie Descriptive, par M. Hachette, suivide 1'Analyse Geometrique de M. John Leslie. Paris, i8i S. +4 113. Transactions of the Society, instituted at London, The Society for the Enfor the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, couragement of Arts, and Commerce. Vol. XXXVI. London, 18I9. &C. 80 Report of the Committee of the Society of Arts, &c. together with the approved Communications and Evidence upon the samne relative to the mode of preventing the Forgery of Bank Notes. London, i819. 80 Rosa Candolleana, seu Descriptio Novo Speciei Mr. C. A. Thory. generis Rosx dicata Pyr. Aug. de Candolle a Cl. An. Thory. Paris, 18I9. 80 On the Mammoth or Fossil Elephant found in the Mr. Charles Stokes. Ice at the Mouth of the River Lena, with a Lithographic Plate of the Skeleton. London, 1819. 40 T :zo. AbhandlungenderKdnigliclhen-AkademiederWisTheRoyal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. MDCCCXIX. x L 516 ] R819. PRESINTS. DONORS. senschaftcn in Berlin aus den Jahren, i8 i 4,18i Berlin, i 8 . 8 4? Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Kbniglichen proe F W esl Universitats Sternwarte in Kbnigsberg, von F. WN. Bessel, Professor, &c. Dritte Abtheilhng vom I januar bis 31 Decem. i86. KRonigsberg, 1817. fol. Astronomisches Jalhrbuch fur das Jahr i8X1. Professor Bode. Berlin, i 8 8. 8oMemoir on a New and certain Method of ascerFrancis Baily, Esq. taining the Figure of the Earth by means of Occultations of the fixed Stars, by A. Cagnoli, with notes, and an Appendix, by Francis Baily. London, 1 8 1 9. 80 On Diagnosis, in two parts, Part i-The SympDr. Marshall H 11I toms of Disease. Part 2.-The Diagnosis of Diseases. London, 181g. 80 On the Mimoses, or a descriptive, diagnostic, and __. ___ practical Essay on Disorders of the general Health in their various simple and complicated forms, contrasted with some acute and insidious Diseases, by Marshall Hall, M. D. London, 1819. 8 Jut jo. Annals of Philosophy, No? 78. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 253. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Mr. G. E. Griffiths. Vol. LXXXVIII. The European Magazine for May. The Editor. Practical Obserivations on Telescopes, Opera GlasDr. William Kitchiner ses, and Spectacles, by William Kitchiner, M. D. 3rd Edition. London, i818. 120 Further Observations on the internal use of the Dr. A. B. Granville. Hydro 5Cyanic (Prussic) Acid in Pulmonary Complaints, Chronic Catarrh, SpasinodicCoughs, Asthma, Hooping Cough, and some other Dis. eases, with full Directions for the preparation and administration of that Medicine, by A. B. Granville, M. D. &c. &c. London, 1819. 8 A Manual of Chemistry, containing the principal W. T. Brande, Esq. facts of the Science in the order in which they are discussed and illustrated in the Lectures of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, by William Thomas Brande, Esq. Secretary to the Royal Society, &c. &c. London, i8I9. 8. A Treatise on the Magnetism of the Needle, &c. G. S. Clarke, Esq by George Samuel Clarke, Esq. London, 1818. 80 Traite complet de Mechanique appliqute anx Mr. J. A. Borgnis,, Arts..Des Machines hydrauliques, par J. A. Borgnis Paris, x8i9g L 517 819. PRESE NTS DONORSO Astronomical Observations mrade at the Radcliffe The Trustees under the Observatory at Oxford, from May i, i8S, to Will of the late Dr. May w, i8i9, by and under the direction of the Radcliffe. Rev. Abram Robertson, D. D. F. R. S. Savie lian. Professor of Astronomy and Radcliffe Observer. MS. A Critical Examination of the first Principles of G. B. Greenough, Esq. Geology, in a Series of Essays, by G. D. Greenough, Pres. Geol, Soc. &c. London, 1819. 8' 17. A Succinct Statement of tite Question respecting The Directors of the the Water Companies of London. London, Grand JunctionWater I819. 80 Works. A Bust of the Right lion. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. Francis Chantrey, Esq. G. C. B. President of the Royal Society, executed in White Marble, by Francis Chantrey, Esq. F. R. S. and R. A. 24. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of LonThe Horticultural So' don. Vol. III. Part 3. London, 1813. 40 ciety. July A. Annals of Philosophy, No. 79, and Supplement to Dr. Thomas Thomson. Vol. XIII. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 254. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review from June. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The European Magazi e for June. The Editor. Archaeologia, or Miscellaneous Tracts relating to The Society of AntiquaAntiquity published by the Society of Antiqua. ries. ries of London. Vol. XIX. Part I. London, 1819. 40 Vetusta Monumenta. Vol. V. Plates 26 to 32. fol. -o 8. The Quarterly Journal of Litterature, Science, The Managers of the and the Arts, No. i4. Royal Institution. Trait6 pratique de l'Oeil Artificiel, ou Experiences M. Hazard Mirault. et Observations sur l'Art de cacher la difformite totale ou partielle de l'organe de la vue a la suite de toutes maladies, operations, et accidens quelconques, &c. Paris, i 8.i 80 With Specimens of Artificial Eyes. IND EX TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1819. A page Amidine, mati're intermendiaire entre la gomme et l'amidon, 5!2 Amidon, observations sur sa ddcomposition i la temp6rature atmosph6rique par l'action de lair et de 'eau 29 sur la gomme produite par sa fermentation spontanke, 50 sur le changement de poids qu'il 6preuve par sa fermentation h l'air, 54 _ sur le gaz hydrogotne produit par sa fermentation, 67 ANDERSON, JAMES, Capt. in the Royal Navy, some observations on the peculiarity of the tides between Fairleigh and the North Foreland; with an explanation of the supposed meeting of the tides near Dungeness, 217 Arbury Hill, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station in the Trigonometrical Survey, 374 -its latitude, 4O3 B BABBAGE, CHARLES, EsQ., on some new methods of investigating the sums of several classes of infinite series, 249 BREWSTER, DAVID, LL. D., on the laws which regulate the absorption of polarised light by doubly refracting crystais, i INDEX. page BREWSTER, DAVID, LL. D., on the action of crystallized surfaces upon liglht, w 145 on the optical and physical properties of Tabasheer, d 283 BRINKLEY, JOHN, 1). D., the results of observations miade at the Observatory of Trinity College, Dublin, for determining the obliquity of the ecliptic, and the maximum of the aberration of light, 241 C Chronometer, observations for the error of it-, 439 Clifton, in Yorkshire, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station in the Trigonometrical Survey, 371' its latitude, 395 Clock, comparisons of it wvith the chronometer, 434 -observations for determining its rate at different stations of the Trigonometrical Survey, 427 Corpora lutea, a treatise on the subject of them 59 _-aare produced previous to, and independent of, sexual intercourse, 6 never met with before puberty, 5 Crystals, absorbing, list of those with one axis, As list of those with two axes, 19 Crystals, doubly refracting, on the influence of their polarising force, upon the polarising force which accompanies partial reflection, = 150 on the change produced upon the polarising angle by their interior forces, so on the change produced upon the polarisation of the reflected ray by their interior forces, 152 D Davis's Straits, and Bajfln's Bay, observations to determine the variation of the needle in those places, 140 DAVY, SIR HUMPHRY, BART., some observations on the formation of mists in" particular situations, 123 Dungeness, meeting of the tides there, _ 22$ Dunnose, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station in the Trigonometrical Survey, 379 INDEX. page E Earth, on its mean density, 84 on the irregularities of its surface, 89 --of its figure, 417 Ecliptic, results of observations made at the Observatory, of Trinity College, Dublin, for determining the obliquity of it, and the maximum of the aberration of light, 241 Equations, numerical, a new method of solving all orders of them by continuous approximation, o308 Error, remarks on the probabilities of it in physical observations, and on the density of the earth, considered especially with regard to the reduction of experiments on the pendulum, 70 Eye, an account of a membrane in the eye, now first den scribed _ 300 F Fairleigh and the North Ioreland, phenomena of the tides between them on the English coast, and Cape d'Alpr6e -and Calais on the French coast, 218 H Heat, on the influence it possesses in modifying the obsorbent power of crystals, 25 HOME, Sip EvERARD, BART., the Croonian Lecture. Onl the conversion of pus into granulations of new flesh, I on corpora lutea, 59 _ _ u -a. ...... an account of the fossil skeleton of the Proteosaurus, 209 reasons for giving the name Proteosaurus to the fossil skeleton of an animal, which has been described ! 212 I on the ova of the different tribes of opossum and ornithorhyncus, 34 HORNER, W. G. EsQ., a new method of solving numerical equations of all orders, by continuous approximation, 308 INDEXi ,I JACOB, ARTHUR, M. D. an account of a membrane in the eye, nowjr first described, 300 Isle of Wight, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station in the Trigonometrical Survey, 379 K Kangaroo, the ova of that animal described, 235, p237 KATER, CAPT. HENRY. An account of experiments for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at the principal stations of the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain, 337 Appendix to his Account of experiments C. 497 L Latitudes and Longitudes of the different stations in the Trigonometrical Survey, 384 Leith Fort, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum. vibrating seconds at that station of the Trigonometrical Survey, 364 ----its latitude, 392 Light, on the action of crystallized surfaces upon it, 145 --I polarised, on the laws which regulate its absorption by doubly refracting crystals, -11 on the absorption of it by crystals with one axis of double refraction, 12 on the absorption of it by crystals with two axes of double refraction, 17 transmitted, on the effects produced upon it by a change in the mechanical condition of the surfaces of crystals, -146 London, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station in the Trigonometrical Survey, 577 its latitude, g407 INDEX. page M MARCET, ALEX:ANDER, M. D. on the specific gravity and temperature of sea waters, in different parts of the ocean, and in particular seas; weith some, account of their saline contents, 161 Mists, some observations on their formation in particular situatfions123 N Needle, magnetic, on the anomaly in the variation of it as observed on ship-board, 96 observations on the dip and variation of it, and on the intensity of the magnetic force; made during the late voyage in search of a, north-west passage, e 132 Needles, compass, on the irregularities observed in the direction of those of H. M. S. Isabella and Alexander in their late voyage of discovery, and caused by the attraction of the iron contained in. the ships, 112 0 Observations, multiplied, on the estimation of the advantage to be derived from them 70 Ocythoe, on that genus, 107 Opossum, on the ova of that tribe, $4 Ornithorhyncus, on the ova of that tribe, Ovarium, human, its natural structure described 69 P Pendulum, rolling, Euler's formula for it, 94 Pendulum vibrating seconds, an account of experiments for determining the variation in its length, at the principal stations of the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain, J 3)7 -description of the one used in the above experiments, 341 the mode of determining its expansion, and a statement of the results, 343 INDEX page Porntsoy, operations for determining the variation in -the length of the pendulum vibrating Dseconds at that station of the Trigonometrical Survey, 356 its latitude, _ 389 Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society, from November 1818, to July 1819, 509 Proteosaurus, an account of the fossil skeleton of that aninal, 209 reasons for giving this name to the fossil skeleton which has been described, 212 Pus, on the conversion of it into granulations of new flesh, -1 changes which it undergoes upon the surface of a sore, . its presence necessary to produce granulations or new flesh in sores, _ 7 coagulated, rendered tubular by the extrication of its carbonic acid gas, _ 9 R Refraction, corrections for it, 160* S SABINE, CAPT. EDWARD, on irregularities observed in the direction of the compass needles of H. M. S. Isabella and Alexander, in their late voyage of (liscovery, and caused by the attraction of the iron contained in the ships, 112 observations on the dip and variation of the 'magnetic needle, and on the intensity of the magnetic force ; made during the late voyage in search of a north-west passagye, 132 Sal-amnroniac, a saturated solution ot it lhas a greater power of coagulating pus than any otlif-r suistauce, 7 its eflects IpXi the surface of a sore, 8 SAUSSU IE, Iit)ono l. 1M '., (Protesseur (le fi mralogie dans I'Acadl6mlie (de (Gene, &c.) observations sur la de"composition (ie l'ainido-n A la tein6Irature atrnosph6rique par I'action de l'air et de leau, 29 MDCCCXIX. 3 Y I N D EX. SAY, ThIoMAIAs, EsoQ. on the genus ocytboe, -a107 SCORESBY, WILLIAM, JXun. Esq., on the anomaly in the variation of the magnetic needle, as observed on shipboard, 96 Sea zwatcr, its temperature at the surface, and at different :depths, as observed by Licut. PAuiTy and others, 203 Sea waters, on their specific gravity and temj)erature, in different parts of the ocean, aud in particular seas; with some account of their saline contents, 161 --their specific gravities, 169 on their saline contents, 191 Series, ijinite, on some new methods of investigating the sums of several classes of them 249 Serum, experiments made by Mr. BAUER, to prove that glo bules are produced in it, Shanklin Flarm in the Isle of Wighit, its latitude, 408 T 7Tabasheer, on its optical and physical properties, 283 the absolute refractive power of that and other bodies, -287 Yizdes, some observations on the peculiarity of those between Fairleigh and the North Foreland; with an explanation of the supposed meeting of the tides near Dungeness, 217 Tricono metrical Survey of Great Britain, observations for connecting the stations of it with those of the pendulum, 501 U Unst, operations for determining the variation in the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds at that station of the Trigonometrical Survey, -44 W I'Vater, a description of an apparatus for raising it from the bottom of the sea, 164 INDEX. page Y YOUNG, THOMAS, M. D. remarks on the probabilities of error in physical observations, and on the density of the earth, considered especially witlh regard to the reduction of experiments on the pendulum, 70 Postscript to his remarks on the reduction of experiments, &c. 160* From the Press of W. BULAMERi & Co. Cleveland-row, St. James's, Lgondon. 