IV. An Observation of one Hemisphere of the Brain sphacelated, and of a Stone found in the substance of the Brain its self: By Edward Tyson, Fellow of the College of Physitians and R. S. DEcemb. 12, 1688. I was desired to be ~ at the opening of Mr. A. About Two Months before (as I was informed) he had received in a Quarrel at the Tavern a great bruise on his Head by a Quart Pot. But for the present neglected the use of means, till at last he was forced to betake himself to his Bed. Dr. Morton was sent for. He found him to complain of a most violent pain in his Head. He sometimes Vo~~ (536) mited; sometimes was in Convulsions; sometimes in the day he would have a great Stupor upon him; and when he waked would be delirous. His swallowing was difficult, and he would grin his Teeth: his Eye-sight afterwards failed him, and he lost his Memory; and upon the least Motion of his Body would faint away, and in the whole Course of his Distemper was feverish. Upon opening his Head I observed the Blood Vessels of the Meninges very much extended; but what surprized me more was, to find the greatest part of the left Hemisphere or side of the Cerebrum or Brain to be perfectly rotten or Sphacelated, not having the least consistency but purulent and soft: Nor could I distinguish the Medullary substance from the Cinericeous; but all of a dark reddish colour: So that I no ways wonder'd at the Symptoms he complained of, but rather that he lived so long; there being so considerable a part of the Substance of the Brain it self wholly corrupted. In the Ventricles of the Brain I observed a great deal of Water: But the greatest surprize of all was the Protuberantia Orbicularis call'd the Testis on the left side; which was as big as a Nutmeg: For upon dissecting I found in a purulent Matter there a Chalky Stone, about the bigness of a Cherry-stone, but flat and not very thick; and in taking it out I found it friable, and have part of the Stone now by me. There are frequent Observations of Stones found in the Glandula Pinealis; and I have seen the Glands of the Tunica Choroides petrified: But Stones to be found in the Substance of the Brain its self, I think is very rare. 'Tis true Jacobus Hollerius mentions Stones to be found in the Brain; but is no where particular in declaring where, as neither is Kentmannus, in telling us where (537) where that was found he gives a Figure of it like a Mulbery: and as Gul. Fab. Hildanus well observes. In hujusmodi enim Historiis & quidem tanti momenti, omnia ad unguem adumbrentur, necesse est; alioquin Cerebrum, cum pars Corporis sit nobilissima, vixque aliquid praeter naturale(uti indies diligens Practicus observare potest)sufferre possit; Non immerito aliquis Historias praescriptas D. D. Kentmanni & D. D. Hollerii in dubium Vocare possit. &c. 