An Account of what appeared on the Dissection of the Body of Mr. Dove. By the late Mr. William Cowper, Surgeon, F. R. S. In a Letter communicated by Dr. Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. Honoured Sir. H A D any opportunity offer'd, you should have received the following Account of what appeared on the Dissection of Mr. Dove before now. The Body in divers Parts-appeared of a <inferred>Black</inferred>, Blue, Livid, and various Colours, before I made any Incision into it; particularly the Back (where the Blood was settled) had a Cadaverous Blackness; where the Cuticula was (513) was here and there vesicated, or distended with Serum. Of this there was no Appearance before Death. The Muscles of the Abdomen had a Mortified Appearance, being a blackish green Colour. The Liver was intirely sphacelated. The Slpeen had large mortified Spots on its Surface: Both these Parts were specifically lighter than in the Natural State; insomuch, that Portions of each of them swam on the Surface of Water, and seemed to have more Air in them than we commonly find in the Lungs in their Natural State. The rest of the Viscera in this lower Cavity were not in so ill a State; tho' the Guts had here and there blackish Spots on them. The Pectoral Muscles were in little better State than those of the Abdomen; nor were the Intercostal Muscles like those of the Limbs. I am apt to think all the Muscles imployed in Respiration, had more or less of this Blackish Appearance. The Right Lobes of the Lungs were diseased; and the same side of the Thorax had a small quantity of Serum in it. The Lungs on the other side were in no ill Condition. The Heart was very flaccid and large: The Right Ventricle and Vena Cava had no small Polypus in them. The Vena Pulmonaris was exceedingly dilated next the Basis of the Heart. The Left Ventricle of the Heart was furnished with a small Polypus, and a great quantity of Grumous Blood. The Great Artery was very thin, and appeared not a little extended, and had some Cartilaginous Bodies interspersed in its Membranes. In the Head; the Dura Mater was found inseparable from the Cranium in its upper part. A Polypus was drawn out of the upper great Vein of the Brain, called Sinus Falcis superior. The Carotide Arteries were very thin, and much larger than they ought to be, before they entered the Substance of the Brain. In short, all the Blood-Vessels A a a a which (514) which I examined were very much dilated, and seemed to be charged with as much Wind as Blood. If there is any thing I have omitted, or have been too tedious in, I hope you will be pleased to excuse me, being in some confinement for want of time; which I will endeavour to mend at leisure. I am Your obliged Humble Servant, W. COWPER. 