Philosoph. Transact.~ ~. 337. TAB. VII. pag. ~. I V L I V S ~ V I T A L I S ~ F A B R I C ~ E S I S ~ L E G ~ X X ~ V ~ V ~ S T I P E N D I O R V M ~ X ~ A ~ O R ~ XX ~ IX ~ N ~ T I O N E ~ B E L G A ~ E X ~ C O L E C ~ O F A B R I C E ~ E L A T V S ~ H S E Tabulam hanc~ quae repraesentat Julij Vitalis epitap hium, ad Bathoniam, A: D: MD C C IIX essossum, Antiquitatis studio flagrantibus D. D. Q. Richardus Musgrave, Hasilburiensis. (283) XXXIX. An Account of a Book, entitled, [Julij Vitalis Epitaphium; cum Notis Criticis Explicationeq; V. C. Hen. Dodwelli, et Commentario Guil. Musgrave.] Iscae Dunmoniorum. Sumtibus Philippi Yeo. MDCCXI. IT is said of Zeno, that when He consulted the Oracle, as to what course of Life He were best to pursue, He received for Answer, ~ ~ ~ ~, si ad mortuos se adplicaret; it being from Them, their Writings and other Remains, that the greatest part of Knowledge is derived to us; and what the Living furnish us with, is chiefly taken from the Monuments of the Dead. Inscriptions are in this kind most valuable, as being for the generality Originals of undoubted Veracity; not subject to the Errors of Copying. The Inscription here publish'd, is of the greater value, for that it is the only one, as yet discover'd, any way relating to the British Belgae. You have, Tab. VII. the Inscription, with the Figure of the Stone, as it was dug up near Bath, 1708. and is now to be seen, set up in a Wall at the East end of the Church, in the Abby Green. Tab. VII. I read it thus at length, according to our Modern way of writing Latin. Julius Vitalis, Fabricensis Legionis Vicesimae Valerianae Victricis, Stipendiorum novem, Annorum viginti novem, Natione Belga, ex Collegio Fabricensium elatus, his situs est. O o 2 The (284) The Learned Mr. Dodwell, after his Critical Notes on this Inscription, divides his Explication of it into Ten Sections, which have the following Titles. S E C T. I. Legionum Fabricenses Fabricenses sub primis duntaxat Imperatoribus. II. Alij Fabricenses hi a Fabricensibus Notitiarum, et Codicis utriusq;, tam Theodosiani quam Justinianei. III. Leges de Fabricensibus setiam post Constantinum M.) non soli Officiorum Magistro, sed Comiti etiam Sacrarum Largitionum, et Praefecto Praetorij inscribi solitae, nsq, ad A. D. 474. IV. A Temporibus Constantini, et initio Diocletiani, Britannia sub Praefecto Gallicani Praetorij, qui proinde Fabricae militaris Britannicae Potestatem habebat. V. Carausius et Allectus in Britannia Augusti Fabricae Britannicae prospiciebant per suorum Praetoriorum Praefectos, non Gallicanum. Inscriptio haec serior Ptolemaeo, antiquior tamen Dionis Consulatu, A. D. 229. VI. In ipsa Urbe Bathoniensi erat Fabricensium Legionis XXae. Collegium. VII. Legio 11a. Aug. nondum in agro Monumethensi, A. D. 211. cum excederet Sept. Severus. Eoq; proinde anno antiquior erat haec, fortassis, Inscriptio. VIII. Fieri potest, ut Fabricas duplices, tam Armorum quam Machinarum Bellicarum, complexum fuerit unicum bujus Inscriptionis Fabricae Collegium. IX. Na(285) IX. Nationis nomine Patria designatur Julij Vitalis, quae in Belgarum territorio fuerit, non Gallicorum, sed Britannicorum. X. Ad honorem Julij Vitalis faciuni, quae de co in hoc monumento dicuntur. To this Explication of Julius Vitalis his Epitaph, the same learned Gentleman adds two other Inscriptions, one found not long since at Pozzuoli, the other at Baiae, with Explications of them. After a Letter of Compliment, to Dr. Nicholes, late Warden of Winchester College, the Editor produces his Commentary on Julius Vitalis his Epitaph. They are both divided into Sections, in the following Order. Sect. I. I V L I V S. V I T A L I S. These Names are enquired into, and Instances given of many Persons having this Sirname; and of those some of Quality, now living in Italy. Sect. II. F A B R I C I E S I S. It is here observed, that the Romans, for the sake of easy Pronunciation, used sometimes to interpose an I, and omit N. That they, being great Masters of the Art Military, had duum generum Officinas Armorum, quarum hae Legionariae, illae Opidanae erant. The sormer came at last to be call'd Fabricae, as appears from Hyginus, allowing, in every Camp for three Regions, room for a Fabrica. (Vide Antiq. Rom. a Cl. Graevio edit. Vol. X.) From Fabrica comes Fabricenses, which is read in the Theodosian Code, in a Law made Leontio & Sallustio Coss. (A. D. 344.) And because the Author has not met with this Word earlier than this Year, He does not place J. Vitalis much above this time. Sect. III<inferred>.</inferred> (286) Sect. III. L E G. XX. The Author here delivers it as probable, That this was one of Antonye's Legions, which amounted, without Interruption, to the Number XXV. inclusive. The Insignia for the first Cohort of this Legion, and two such as belong to the other Cohorts, are, from a Coyn of Ursinus, here represented in a Cut. Under this head it is affirmed, That there were several Vicesimae Legiones, but how many is uncertain. The several Names of this Legion, as they lye scatter'd up and down in Authors, are recited. A short History of it produc'd, particularly of its coming into Britain under Plautius, about the Year 43. That Invasion one of the most remarkable Epochai, that ever concerned this Island. Graecina, Wife to Plautius, probably the first Christian in Britain. This Legion was in the last Battel with, and overthrow of Boadicia: Was under the Command of Roscius Caelius, and after that of Agricola: Had its chief Station at Deva (Chester,) which had its Increase, if not its Rise, from this Legion, about the Year 80. Near the River Deva, He thinks the Cangi were seated; and proves, That they were overcome by Agricola in the first Year of Domitian's Reign. This Legion in Britain in the Reign of Adrian. The Vexillarii of this Legion built part of that Wall, between Dunbritton and Edenborough Friths. Ptolemy and the Itinerary of Antoninus mention this Legion, as settled at Deva: (Chester.) It was there in the time of Commodus, and at Crowdun ~ dale-waith. It sided with Carausius, against Maximinian and Diocletian. The Romans did often place Coyns, under their Altars, and other Buildings. Of the XXth Legion, part had their Station at Bath; and was there about the middle of the 4th Century. This Legion continued in Britain about three hundred Years; consequently, (287) sequently, must be of great use in communicating to the Britains, the many Arts and Sciences, they learnt of the Romans. Sect. IV. V. V. Tho' Learned Men agree, That the latter V signifies Victrix, an Epithet common to this with several other Legions; there is among them much controversy, what it meant by the former V. some reading it Valens, others Valeria, others Valeriana. The Author is of the latter Opinion, urging, That as the Legion, called by Dio ~, is by Tacitus, more than once, term'd Claudiana Legio; so this Legion, term'd by Dio ~, ought, in his Opinion, to be in Latin rendred Legio Valeriana: Especially, if we consider, That the word Legio affects to be joined with an Adjective ending in ana; of which He produces almost twenty Examples, and can produce many more: On the other hand, it does not appear to him, That Legio is in any good Author joyned with the word Valeria. He farther adds, That tho it be undoubtedly true, there was a Legion call'd Valens Victrix, (for this is evident from an Inscription, reported by Lipsius, and others) yet there is no proof, That any Legion, having that Name, was ever in Britain. He enquires, how this Legion came to be call'd Valeriana, and how Victrix: And says, there is a longer Account of this Legion, than perhaps of any other, viz. up to 374 Years. Sect. V. S T I P E N D I O R U M. IX. The yearly Stipends are here placed to express the Years of Service, and shew, That J. V. served nine Years in the Army. Sect. VI. (288) Sect. VI. A NN O R. XXXIX. This double N is very remarkable; rarely, if at all, to be met with in any other Inscription. The last Line, in the Ligature, is raised higher than ordinary, perhaps to include, for softness of Pronounciation, an I; and then the Word is to be read Anniorum. There are many Instances of this kind to be met with, in ancient MSS and Inscriptions. Julius Vitalis enter'd into the Service in the Twentieth Year of his Age; though the Romans generally listed at Seventeen, and sometimes earlier. Coyns are mentioned, as proving Cifres to be of use among the Romans. Sect. VII. N A T I O N E. The first Vowel here, without a Line transverse, is accoridng to Mr. Cambden's Rule, a good Argument to prove, this Inscription not to be more ancient than Severus's Age: There being, as that Learned Antiquary affirms, no such Form of this Letter, in this Island, before that time. Sect. VIII. B E L G A. The Belgae came out of Germany, and settled in Gaul; from whence a part of them invaded Britain, about the Time of Diviaticus. They landed in, or near the Bay of Clausentum (old South-hampton) and possest the Sea-Coast of Hampshire, as it is now call'd. Thence they march'd to Venta (Winchester) and gave it the Name of Venta Belgarum, and extended their Conquests farther, into the Countreys now known by the Names of Wiltshire and Somerset. The (289) The Cangi could not inhabit any part of this Belgium, (as some learned Men have formerly affirmed, and others of late undertaken to prove;) for the Leaden Pigs, in number twenty, found some time since in Cheshire, each having the following Inscription, IMP. DOMIT. AVG. GER. DE. CEANG. That is, Imperator Domitianus Augustus Germanicus de Ceangis, sive <inferred>Cangis</inferred>, These Laminae Plumbeae do (I say) evidently prove the Victory of the Cangi to have been near the River Deva, where in all likelihood they were seated. 'Tis farther manifest from Ptolemey, they could not, at least in his time, and according to his Geography, inhabit any part of Belgium, and this by an undeniable Argument. The Maritime Belgians near the Isle of Wight, were overcome by Vespasian; whose Camp, now to be seen near Chichester, was capable of three Legions, that is, Thirty six thousand Men. Vitalis a Citizen of Rome, by virtue of Caracalla's Constitution, if no other way. The Britains were sometimes call'd Romans. Vespasian never overcame the Dunmonij. Sect. VIIII. EX. COLECIO. FABRICE. The single L is according to the Custom of the Romans, which held as long as their Language. C for G was also usual with Them. P p The (290) The Fabrica Sacra, or Office for making Arms of the greater sort, for the Souldiery, is mention'd by Paternus; who lived under the Antonines. Trajan seems, first, to have built this sort of Office; whose Oeconomy is here set forth; but, in Britain, Adrian, A. D. CXXI. Why we ought to read Fabricensium. The Bath-Fabric had Ore and Fuel from the Silures, (Glocestershire and Monmouthshire) where Adrian sunk an Iron-work. Of the Officer in the Army called Armorum Custos. The Armamentarium at the Mouth of the old Rhine, very ancient: Its Communication, in latter Times, with our Fabrica. Not unlikely, but that the Legionary Fabricenses were incorporated into the Bath-College. Julius Vitalis recommended Himself to the College, perhaps by his Humanity, Probity, and Urbanity. The Luxury of this XXth Legion, and of the Fabricenses near Bath, manifest from their many Mosaic Pavements: Of which one is here described. Vitalis seems to have been Praefectus Fabricen sium, from the Honour done Him, by the whole College, in his Funeral and Monument. Sect. X. E L A T U S. The true Signification of this Word, in opposition to Sipontinus. Collegium, in the purest Latin Authors, never signifies a Place. Sect. XI. H S E. The Rise of Notes, Singulae, or Siglae. No Points in this Note, being of itself easily understood. The common way of Deciphering not difficult; and may be perform'd by one, who understands not the Language of the Writing. A way of writing proposed, so occult, as not to be discovered. No Digamma AEolicum in any of the British Inscriptions. Phrases, as well as Words, have (291) have their Rise and Fall. This of [Hic situs est] one of the most ancient. The Military Ways, as now seen, are some of the most Magnificent Remains of the Roman Greatness; begun near Bath, under Claudius. The Roman Army in Britain under Nero 70000: which, after the Defeat of Boadicia, was in all likelihood employ'd in public Works, as Ways, &c. At Bath four Military Ways meet; in this Quadrivium, about a Mile out of the Town, near the London-Road, was a famous Burying Place; in which Julius Vitalis, and several others, were buryed. Burying-Places most proper remote from Cities, and therefore recommended to more frequent use, after the Example of most wise Nations. In the last Chapter the Author treats of the Orthography, Ornaments, and other Accidents of this Inscription, setting forth, in particular, That as Inscriptions best of all teach Orthography, so they are often most faulty in this respect. Points at first were used to distinguish Words. In this Inscription, they are, where most perfect. Triangular, and placed near the middle of the preceding Letter. The Roman V was pronounc'd like our W; consequently Julius Witalis. This Vowel was sometimes pointed beneath, sometimes Arch'd, as appears from MSS of a thousand Years age, now to be seen in the Bodleian Library: contrary to the Opinion of Cellarius; who affirms, That the round <inferred>bottom'd</inferred> U, U, is not above a hundred Years standing. This last Figure of this Letter taken from the Runer, as the other, V, was from the Greck T. Of the mixing small with great Letters; and mixing, in the same <inferred>Writing</inferred>, Letters of divers Alphabets. Lithotomists careless in dividing Syllables. Knowledge of the Antients best preserved by Inscriptions; which yet labour under great defects. The Use of this Inscription. P p 2 The (292) The A. of this Commentary can't but take Notice, That it is not represented aright by the Editor of the Bibliotheque choisie, Tom. XXV. primiere partie. For pagg. 225 and 6, He says, [Belges, qui des Provinces septentrionales du Continent des Ganles s'etoient transportez en Angleterre, autour de Bath & Wells] Whereas the Commentary affrims no such thing, and in all likelihood Wells, and perhaps Bath too, is much later than the settling of the Belgae in Britain. In the 2d place, He observes, That whereas the Bibliotheque affirms of the Bath Fabric [ce que l' on avoit ignore jusqu a present] the Commentary quite otherwise says, [Fabricam Aquis, quod orbi literato jam diu latuit, fuisse Calidis.] pag. 189. Lastly, speaking of the round bottom'd U, invented (as Cellarius affirms) about a hundred Years ago, This, says the Bibliotheque, is true, as to Inscriptions [Cela est vrai a l' egard des Inscriptions.] On the other hand, I take leave to affirm, quod hujus contrarium est verissimum: There being now to be seen in Cornwall an old Inscription with a round U. A N 