Fig: 3. E C D B F B A E C Fig: 5. III. Three Queries relating to Shells proposed by Mr. Samuel Dale, and answered by Dr. Martyn Lister. R.S.S. The Queries. THere are three things among Shells, in which I would be glad of Dr. Lister's Assistance, which if you can procure, will be a great Favour, and desire it may be done as soon as possible. 1. What is the Entalia of the Shops? by what Authors described? under what Names? and how they differ from the Dentalia? 2. Of what Shell is the Blatta Byzantina the Operculum? 3. There are divers sorts of Purpurae among Authors, which is that of the Shops ~ Likewise which sort of Buccina and Umbilici Marini ought to be used in the Shops? The Answer to the Three Queries, by Dr. Lister. 1. As to the Entalia, I do not remember to have seen any thing in the Shops under that Name. The Descriptions of the Dentalia in Scroder are very faulty, and both those and the Entalia by him should seem to be the Two Species of Dentalia, which are by me figured. The Dentalium being that which is commonly and in Plenty found about the Island of Garnsey, and elsewhere (640) where upon our Coast; and is the same with that found in the Mediterranean. It is a long, slender, round Pipe, a little bending and tapering, hollow and open at both ends, without any Crack or Flaw, naturally, white at one end, and usually a little reddish; very smooth and polish'd on the out-side, and from thence and the Figure called a Dog-like Tooth. The Entalium, or other Species of the Dentalia is very much longer and thicker than the former, much alike in other respects, save that this is streaked with high Ridges, and mostly of a greenish Colour. This Species I guess to come from the Indies. Note, that any thing that is wrought into, or channeled, is in the Modern Italian called an Intaglia; whence I believe, and the nearness of the Word Dentalia, arose those distinctions of Names. 2. To the Second Quaere, I take the Blatta Byzantina to have succeeded the Unguis Odoratus, and to have been brought into the Shops in its place. In Dioscorides's time the best was brought from the Red Sea, viz. the palest and fattest; the blacker, and less, from Babylon or the Persian Gulf; but it seems later Times took up with those found about Constantinople; whence the present Shop Blatta had its Name. The Name of Blatta is given to this Operculum, from the Colour I guess; as being of a dark Hair Colour, as the common Blatta Pistinaria, so common in London, is; also this being a broad, thin, flat Beetle, like the Cover. 'Tis true, the same Dioscorides says, the Unguis was an Operculum (~ ~) like to that of the Purple Fish. He means what was used in his Time; in which it seems the Unguis Odoratus was lost, or was not brought to Europe. But it will appear out of the same Dioscorides, that the Unguis was no Operculum. It will be worth the while to make out this Mistake, and consequently the Errors the Moderns have been in to substitute an (643 Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, doratus. Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were alwaysOperculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Thumb Nail, and that for these Reasons. Operculum belongs, and which therefore were alwayOperculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were alwaysOperculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, Operculum belongs, and which therefore were always, and easily to be caught. K 2. He (644) 2. He calls this Snail Conchylium, and by that general Name distinguishes it from all the other sorts, concerning which he treats in several Chapters; which tho' in general it take in both kinds, as well Turbinate as Bivalve; yet it does more particularly denote a Concha or Bivalve. 3. The Onyx is expresly reckon'd by Pliny amongst the Bivalves. For (l. 32. c. II.) he makes all these Synonimous, Solen, sive Aulos, sive Donax, sive Onyx, sive Dactylus. And again more particularly, (lib. 9. c. 61.) he says, Concharum genere sunt Dactyli, ab Humanorum Unguium similitudine appellati. So that in all probability the Onyx Odoratus brought more anciently out of the fresh-water Lakes about Ganges in India, was not unlike the common Onyx of the Mediterranean, which was of the Solen kind. Whatever the Blatta Byzantina of our Shops is, which has certainly nothing of the Characters of the ancient Aromatick Unguis; and which in all probability was lost upon the account of the difficult Passage from Ganges into Europe. I lament its Loss, which I have reason to believe was a good Medicine, from its strong Aromatick Smell; which is much wanting in our Testaceous Powders, of which this was one of the number, so much used, and that not without good reason now-a-days, which are all very flat and insipid. To the Third, The Purpura of the Ancients is well made out, and figured by Fabius Columna: And it is one of the most common Murices of the Mediterranean Sea. In this he could not be much mistaken, because, as I remember, he somewhere mentions heaps of those Shells where the Officinae Purpurae anciently were; and also from the Purple Sanies the Fish yields of it self. He mentions one or two more Species of Turbinate Snails, to be found in the Mediterranean, which yield a Purple Juice. Upon the whole matter it is indifferent, what sort (645) sort of Shell we use in the Shops, if it be to be calcined, provided it be a Sea-shell. Nor do I find either Dioscorides or AEtius to have distinguish'd betwixt the Ostrea Purpura or Buccinum calcined; but gives them all the same Caustick Virtue; possibly some one Species may have it in a higher degree, as we see the various sorts of Lime-stone, if calcined, differ in strength. One thing I shall not omit before I end this Paper, because it is now in my mind, that tho' the Species of Shell or Purpura be scarce known to our Shops at this day, yet the use of the Purple Juice has been by Tradition at least transmitted down to our Times, and kept as a Secret even in these Islands, till Mr. Cole got hold of it, and publish'd it. Sir Robert Southwell the now President of the R. S. told me many years ago, that his own Mother in Ireland was famous for marking Handkerchiefs with the Juice of Fish; which Mark would never wash out. And the very Learned Mr. John Beaumont informs me of a passage in our Beda's Ecclesiastical History relating to the Purple, as a known thing in his time. The Passage is as follows: Bedae, Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Angl. 1. I. C. I. Variis Conchyliorum generibus exceptis: in quibus sunt & Musculae, quibus inclusam saepe Margaritam omnis quidem coloris optimam inveniunt, id est, & rubicundi & purpurei, & hyacinthi & Prasici sed maxime candidi. Sunt & Cochleae satis superque abundantes, quibus Tinctura coccinei coloris conficitur. Cujus rubor pulcherrimus nullo unquam solis ardore, nulla valet pluviarum injuria pallescere; sed quo vetustior, eo solet esse venustior. You see from this Passage the Purple Trade of Dying was used in England, and very much valued. Of Mr. Cole's you have a Cut in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 178. Fig. 5. Represents the true Purpura of the Ancients by the Italians called Gerusolo. K 2 IV. An 