An Account of the Dissection of a Person, who dy'd of an Ulcer in the Right Kidney. By J. Douglas, M. D. F. R. S. I Was desired lately to assist at the opening of a Gentleman, who dy'd the Day before, in the 45th Year of his Age; where I observ'd the following Particulars, relating to the Unusual Structure and Morbid Disposition of the Parts contained in the Cavities of the Thorax and Abdomen. 1. When the Skin with the other Integuments were taken off, I observed that part of the Omentum had thrust itself thro' the Annular Holes of the Abdominal Muscles on the Left Side, and there fomed a Epiplocele, or Hernia omentalis, as large as a Walnut. 2. The (33) 2. The Omentum reached as low down as the Pubis and Inside of the Ilia, to which it was ty'd, and by Fibrous Connections it adhered to all the Peritonaeum below the Navel. 3. All the Fat on the Omentum and Guts was firm, and hard like Tallow. 4. The Intestines and Stomach were quite empty, without either Wind or Faeces. 5. The Left Kidney was much larger than ordinary, being near eight Inches long; its Surface being divided into several distinct Lobes, as it a Faetus. 6. The Right Kidney was full of a faetid ~ Matter: All its inner Substance was wholly wasted; and its external or cortical Part was streached so very thin, that a small touch of the Finger could easily break thro' it. 7. All the Fat and Glands about the Kidney last mentioned were hard, obstructed, indurate, and big, which made a great compression on the Musculus Psoas and the Musculus Quadratus lumborum. 8. The Ureter proceeding from this Right Kidney, was covered with a Crust or Bed of indurate Glands; and besides, its capacity was straightned and contracted in several Places. 9. The Cavity of the Vesica Urinaria was very small; its Substance so very thick and hard, that I could not even by the help of a Blow-pipe distend it any wider: Its Inside seem'd excoriated with several little fleshy Caruncles, or red Excrescences, here and there. 10. There was a remarkable Corrosion in all the Inside of the Urethra. 11. All the Upper and Convex Part of the Liver adhered firmly to the Peritonaeum that covers the Diaphragm, and to the same Membrane where it covers part of the Musculus Abdominis transversalis: Its Substance was so (34) so very tender and soft, that it seemed to be almost rotten. 12. The Gall-Bladder was extreamly,large and full; the Biliose Liquor it contained, being of a whitish yellow colour. 13. Between the Tunica vaginalis and albuginea of the Left Testicle, there was a large hydatical or watery Tumor; and upon the last named Coat of the same Testicle, there were several chalky Concretions, about the bigness of a Barley-Corn each. 14. In the Right Auricle of the Heart there was a large Polypus, that fill'd up its Cavity; extending itself a great way into the Ascending and Descending Trunks of the Vena Cava. All the rest of the Viscera were as they should be in a Natural State. In the next Place I will take Notice of the Symptoms this Person complained of during his Illness, as far as I was informed by those who attended him. About a Year and half ago, he began to decline in Health. His first Complaints being a Heat, Sharpness or Pain in making Water; constant Desire to Urine, tho' in great Misery after. When the Water stood a while, there appeared a greasy Substance on its Surface, not unlike the Cream or Ice that is found on the top of Aqua calcis vivae; sometime after, it deposited a purulent Matter in great quantity, but without any offensive smell: The Water when made was thick and whitish, but when the Corruption settled to the bottom of the Pot, it became clear. He seldom complained of any great Pain in his Back or Loins; whence they concluded the Ulcer was in the Neck of the Bladder, tho' the vast discharge of Matter was an Argument of the contrary: But always was on the Rack when he rose up after (35) after sitting, and it was a great difficulty to him to get up, which perhaps was occasioned by the Weight and Pressure of the Kidney and adjacent indurate Glands, lying on the head of the Psoas Muscle and Quadratus lumborum. He had often a total Suppression of Urine; but was much relieved by Sal Succini and Corn. Cervi. He took several Doses of Cantharides with Camphire, without any ill effect from the Fly, but had little Relief as to his Distemper. For Three Weeks past he was seized with a violent Looseness, which at last, in spite of all means, carry'd him off. VII. 