PHILOSOPHICAL T R A N S A C T T O N S. SII. A Description of a Transit Circle for determinixg thc PZace of celestial Objects as they pass the Meridtan. By the Rev. Francis Wollaston, LLk B. andZ F. Rs S. Read May 9, ty93. AN instrument which, in one observation, is capable of givirlg with precisiorz both the right ascension and declination of 9' celestial objects, has always appeared to me orle of the desiderata in astronoiny. Though I had often considered the va rious methods practlced for ascertaining each, and turned it in my mind how I could contrive to make one instrument answer botll purposesX I never could satisfy myself in what way to effect the oneS without destroying the accuracy of the other till one eveningn at a meetlng of our Society in the beginning of 1787, Mr. RAMSDEN merltioned to me 11is idea of reading oS the divisions of an instrument, by a m-croscope having a micrometer in the field of view, which7 :being de tached from the l-mb could exa.mine witll accuracy the M2GCXCIII@0 T JrAr. WOLLASTON)S Description134distance of the nearest division from a fixed point. It occurred to me immediately that this was the thing I wanted: because a cirele attached to tlae telescope of a transit instru-mentn and passing in review before such a microscope, or a i)air of such microscopes, would answer the purpose. I did rlot then know, that a microscope of that kind had been applied by theIate Duc de CHAULNES, to his dividing engine, for determinin-g the divisions; described minutely by him, and published in 1768; a copy of sYhiCh is in our library. Neitller did I then know of the same idea havillg been the foundatiorl of ROEMER'Smethod of reading off the divisiorlb on his Circulus meridionalis; an account of which was published by HORREBOW, in the beginning of this century; where a reticule of ten squares was madejby trials of its distance from the limb of the instrument, to coincide with a division of ten mirlutes on that limb.: With them I was not acquainted, till after my instrument was already in some forwardness. Whether Mr. RAMSDEN took the first hint from either of then, and improved upon it, I canrlot say He has brought it into use among us: I certainly derived it from him, and to him I acknowledge myself indebted for it. This method of reading off has, indeed, been applied already with great su-ccess to diffierent instruments, but I do not know that it llas ever yet been adapted to the transit. Circles of various kinds have been constructed with wonderful accuracy, yet all have been formed with another view and their turning freely in azimuth, seemed to render them less fit for the purpose which I wanted e i. e. a circle, firmly fixed, and turning truly in the plane of the meridian by sneans of a transverse axis; with all the adjustments of at of a TranszXt Circlc.transit at the end of the axis itselff (which appear to me essential to a due performance); and at the same time with the opposite readings, and all the adjustments of the circles now in 1lse. On this iclea the following instrument was constructed: and since there are some particular contrivances in it, which are new, I take the liberty of laying a general descriptioIl of -it before this Society; not by way of setting forth the praises of-any one instrument; but that this snay be known in all its parts, with the advantages and di-sadvantages of each, as far as I have discovered any X and that such of them as are judged useful, (if the Committee shall think proper to honour this paper with a place in our Transactions) may be adoptedby :r others. My first design was, not to have girrun orders for one myself, but merely to communicate the thought to those who might improve upon it. Accordingly, I mentioned it first to Mr. RAMSDEN, irl 1788: but the multiplicity of his engagements, and the fertility of his own imagination, (at that time particularly turned towards contriving to make irlstruments move freely in azimuth) rendered him disinclirled to listen to a scheme for one on another plan. The same was the case with Mr. rrRouGHTos. -I mentioned lt likewise to several of my acquaintance . but (perhaps the trouble and expense attendirlg the construction of a first instrument seldom so complete as a second or a third of the kindn might be the cause) no one was set about. After three years waiting, and becoming, in the mean time, more and more convinced of the advantages of such an instrument to astronomyX and Mr. CARY being recommended to mea as fully qualified for the T 2 136Mr WOLLASTO:N}S Descrzptionpurpose though Iam growing tooold to expect-to make; marly more obserfirations, I gave orders for one of a size and form which I thougllt most conlrertient to myself. Observer$ know best what it is they want; and an instrument-maker who will condescendi to listen to them is a treasure. In this as well as other respects it is but justice to Mr. CARY to sayy that he has answered the character which was given of him. He has shewn himself, during the whole titne very diligent and attentive, comprelletlding readily my directions; giving freely his opiniorln and his reasons for dissent, if he disapproved of what was proposed; yet being willing to follow mine, if I still continued in the sam.e mind; improving upon -some of my hlnts v and esecut¢ng in a masterly way every part of it. The drawin$ accompanying this paper (Tab XV.) will shew the general form of the instrument; and need very little explanation. . The whole stands on three feet adjustableoby screws. The bottom plate (of 213inches diameter) turns in azimuth; not on a long axis, but on a center; and rides on a bell-metal circle, truly turned, and to which the bottom plate itself is groundJ In this way it moves very smooth by hand; but it is capable of being turned by a wxnchn withtooth and pinion. The intent of its turning thus, is mgrely for the convenierlce of reversing the instrllment: for though it might be used out of the meridians and for azimuths S yets since it is designed prirlcipally for meridian passages when it Vis in its place the whole is clamped firmly to the bottom frame by four clampss which confine it to the circle on which xt rides: and this method sf turlling proves itself to: be of a Rranslvt Cgrcle.*137steady, by the levels on the bottom plate never altering in the least upon screwring the clamps. The four pillars and their braces, explairl themselves-. They stand over the bell-metal circle S and tlle clamps are placed near the foot of each for greater steadiness; since they carry the Y s for t;he pivots of the transit. The constructionof these Ysispeculiar: theyllangasitweres in gilnmals, though of a very firm kind a drawing of which (Tab. XVI. fig. ) will best explain them. They hanre a horisontal motionn smooth and steady: the trS or frame, AB, which carries them, turning on a perpendicular axis of einchesj CD, $round to its socketS on the outside of the plate EF, whic}z connects them with the pillarsS and restlng on that plate, to which the bottom of the frame itself is ground liliewise. In this frame they have a vertical motion: the Ys themselves carrying a horizontal axis at AB, which, consisting of two frusta of cones on each sidee in contrary directionsS with a collar over them, guards against any shake whatsoever, while it admits of the Y adapting itself to the direction of the pivot. The idea of hanging them in this way, as well as that of turning the whole instrument in azimuth on a ground plate, was suggested by ourlate member Mr. JOHN SMEATQN ; ° whom the world has, during many years, been indebted for repeated capital improvements in mechanics. By thus hanging the Ys, the pivots have a bearing on them from end to end; instead of riding on a bell-metal ridgen as i$ the usual method xvhere the Y5 are fixed,and cannot set themselves in the direction of the axis. This seems to be a better bearing, and much less likely to wear the pivots. Yet to guard against any wear a pair of cylindrical lMr WOLLASTON s Descriptio¢springs, in-cluded in a tube, are applied through rings within the connecting plate above mentioned. These carry, each of them, a pair of rollers, on which a brass collar at each end of the axis of the telescope rides. The sprirlgs may be used or removed, at pleasure; and they can be strengthened or weakened, by means of a screw at the bottom of the tube, so as to take of from the pivots any part of the vweight that may be judged best: and since they are in a line with the axisS and are lnade capable of obeying it irl every direction, there ls rlo danger of their deranging its adjustments, while they render its motion exceedingly light and smooth; irldeed The adjustments of the Ys are both of them at the same end of the asis, opposite to the divided circle and the microscopes; because the smallest adjustment of that end of the axis between the microscopess would hafire affiected them so as to require an entire re-adjustment of them too. At the farther end, the axis is perforated, to admit light for illuminating . . the wires. And I find that (to my sight at least) it is much most agreeable to close the aperture with a pale green glass. The axis itself is 18 inches long, exclusive of the pivots which are about r + each. The microscopes need no description. They are oll the same principle as those described by our late member Major GeneralRoo. (Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX, p. +5-.) Mine are 9 inches long S the object-end at 2inches from the limb of the circle. They magnify 24 times. One -revolution of the micro-meter-screw is equal to one minuteS and the head is divided to seconds. ; The fix-ed or stationary wire in them, is at the first llotch, or minute itself e and it is adjusted by means of a plumb-line? EoJT a Transit Circle.139-thich hangs from the top pla--te, and passesSby the:side:-of the .. axis at about 8 degrees, or 1 inch 4n from the centre. t For this purpose there are dots made on the limb,: at a suitable distance on each side of the dzero both above and belokw, whether the tele*scope {be horizontal or-perpendicular either way. These ares vi-ewed through two compound microscopes, (of M inches long, and tlleir -object-glass at -inches dis-tarlce fiom the limb) carried Dby the same frames as the other microscopes. The cursorf or moveable wire ill the micrometer-microscopes, isadjusted much in the same mvay as General RoY's Y excepting that the micrometer head is made to turn stiffly on the neck of the screw, so as to allow of bringing the point of zeroto front tlle eye, without the troubSle of re-adjustment, if it happened to fall behind. Itmay be-;asked, since I use a compound microscope for viewing the wire, why I choose a plain: plumb-line close to the limb, in preference to one in the combined focus of the glasses ? My reason is this , I use a compourld microscope, because my eyes do never,-with any comfort adapt themselves to a single magnifier; and in this way I have more light, and can keep my eye at a greater distance. I approure mUCh Of Mr. RAMSDEN)Sghost, as it is calledf where it can be used witll safety. But in this instrument, I thought I could not confide in it as the microscope nlust be on a differellt $upport: whereas the looking at the dot itself, and the wire together, through a tube of above ^5 inchesS and at a distance of lo or 12 from the limb, could admit of little or no parallax. I had intended making use of the original dots of the divisiorls for this purpose; but they are SQ minute, that tlae Mr WOLLASTON s DescrtptiorD14o;smaIlest wire ca?able of suvporting a plumimet eclipses them entirelyX There-is of course a level (and a very sensible one it is) for adjust?ng the axis. The circlde was ordered to have ten radii that--when the telescope ishorisontals and pointing to a meridian mark, there mlght be a vacancy leetween the cones, above or below, for introducing a level. In the brace between the pillarss over the moveableY, (ast A,Tab. XV.) it may be observed the bottom bar is omitted i in order to vperle the better room for passinghthe levels without inclining it, or running any hazard of striking it. From the lower bar of the oppo$iteobrace 8, over-the fixed EY, there stands out a forked piece of brass to receive the leg of the level, and direct it to its place; as aDl!So for keeping it upright when the foot stands on the pivot, and justallowing a very little sllake so as not to cramp it. lSy this contrivance the level is easily handled, and reversed, without danger of disturbing it or the instrument. The top platea as may -be seen in thedrawing, has a large opening cut more tharl half way acros-s it. The design of this is, to allow you to observe quite up to the zenith, and a llttle beyond it, clear of alsl obstruction whatseever. And since the whole instrunwent is capable of being rsersed, or turned half way round in azimllthS when jrou have occasion to observe the trahSit of starsS in that ;part of the heavens where they woul(l he intereepted by the plate in one paosition, it s entirelyRout Qf the way in the other. rrhe circle itself Is of full two feett diameter at the divislonsX beillg 2S2> inches atV tl e edge. 'rhe undivided circle, oa tlwe sitle otz tlae telescope next to the open end of the axls of a Transit Circlc-wrareS for strerlgth and uniformity ,, and to it is applied tlle cJlamp for elevation. That clamp is so made, as to allow the circle to run freely all round if you please v not bearing at all against it, but supporting itself, and yet being easily rernoureable. It has no cc)rnmand over the circle whateverb svllen handled vvith care, e-xcepting in the altitude of the teIescope, by arl adjustirlg screw wlaen the clamp is set: and, as that scresv has a milled head at each end, it is as conveniently turned from the one as from the other side of the instrument, to bring the horizontal wir--e to bisect the objectThe telescope is of 2 inches aperture, and 3r) focal lengtla. The object-glass does not slide w-ithin the tube; hut screws into the end of a piece of false tube, of 4 inches length, wlaich slides on the outside of tlle principal tube, arld is fixed in its place, by g screws and ceollars rutlning in grooves, when its distanc-e from the wires is adjusted. In this wayn one has the s^thole aperture of the tube; and no greater lengtZh tharz is absolut.ely necessary for use; whfich, irl such an instrument, appeared to me to be an advantage. In sonle respects I find st so: yet, the hazard of di$turbing the collimation, by touching the outside of the tube, is an objection. The wires are not in one cel-l; bllt on two distinct cells, with tlzeir faces towards each oth-er. The perpendicular wires are , at Sg seconds of time dsstance in the equator ) and are adJustable horizontally for collimation by a screw. Tllfe horizontal wires are Sg at about minutes of a degree asunaler; placyed so as just no-t to touch, but to pass clear of the other wires; and ther are adjustable in collima!tion by another erew peculiar to them. The two cells have each a power of MD.C .. CXC.IIS4 ..... rU Mr.*WoLLASToN3S Descetion2turningrseparately on the asis of vision; but when once thew two sets of wires are brought to be truly at right angles to each other the cells can then be fixed together, and turned together, and final:Ly settled in their place by screws and collars at the outside of the tube. These things, I believe, are new: I thought they might be improvemerlts on the usual . . method; yet I find the adjustment of the horizontaI wires in collilnation, might be dispensed with. My reason for having 9 horizontal wires, and at Aabout that distance wasg that after having ascertained what the dif ference is, I might observe the lower limb of the sun or moorl at tlae one, and the upper liml3 at the other of the extreme wires, without much altering t-he elevation of the telescope, and removing the centre of the object, or preceding and subsequent limbs of the sun or moon, far QUt of the Gentre of the field. The divisions on-tl-e circle itself come now to he spoken to They were done by hand; and have been executed with great care. The original dierisions are by dots or pointsS at every ten minutes. VWithinS is another row9 by strokes or cutsS laid off fiom the points to every ten minutes likewise. The dots are what we will regard first: the cuts afterwards. As it always appears to me conrrenient, in actual observation, to contrive that every thing shall do ltselfS as far as I can, and to leave the rnind as well as the body at perfect ease and totally disengaged from calculation9 I consideredg that making both the microscopes talk the same language, ead oFthe same svay, with-the guiding figure always to the salne hand, and the dot to be observed to the same hand too, and the readings always positive, would conduce much to of a Transz't Czrcle.-enejs ease, and thereby very greatly indeed to the accuracy and certainty of the observatiorl. With this intent, since the microscopes are, the one above, I ordered that to be marked A; the other below, I3 > considering that the numbers deduced from them could never be mistaken, if one got into the habit of examining A first, and noting that down, and then examinin$ and setting B under it; which, if all things are true, ought to be the complement to go degrees. rfO malie-the reading pleasant, I ordered the micrometer scresv in eaGh to be placed on the right hand S and considered the moveable wire as always to be kept to the right hand of the other. This ^vill of course, in all cases, measure theSdistance of the fisecI wire frorn tlae llearest dot apparently on the right, (or, since the microscopes invert the nearest dot really to the Ieft) which will be either the degree itself on that hand, or some mllltiple of ten minutes from it. 1'hat the numbering of the degrees might coincide with this idea, I consideredn that the figures sllould be made to appear erect in the microscopesS in every position of the telescope (which they rnight be whenever it does not point below the horizon) and that they shoulcI be reckoned backwards. To effect this, they ought to be rewckoned backwards in themselrres, but to stand the cotltrary way, or inl7erted in reality. This would be different ill tlle two luicroscopes, in respect of-the centre of the circleS but that could create no difEiculty. For, since the two quadrants llearest to the obgect end of the telescope, would always be those coming under the examination of microscope A ; and the two nearest to tlae eye endX khose to be observed at microscope B; they might be U g Mrs WOLLASTON S Dessrtpttog144figured accordinglye Hence, supposing the instrument placd in the mtridian, with the graduated fice turned: towards the east; if, when the telescope is horizontal and points to the south, the-upper quadrant nearest to the object-end, be um bered from that end from X to go°, with the heads of the figures tow.ards the centre of the illstrument, and the other upper quadrant be Ilumbered from the eye-end, w-ith the feet of tlhe figures towards the centre; they both vould give the zenitll distances of theolJjects observed The former, at microscope A, while the telescope points toy the south of the zenith ¢ the latter at microscope B, when you arewobserving towards the north. X The two other, or lower quadrants, follow a similar ruleg and serve to sllew the altitudes, if both benumliered from the quadrature, insteadof either end of the telescope S those Read ing towards tl}e object-end, being placed with their hea-dss while those towards the eyeend$ stand with their feet towards the centre of the circle rrO render this more intelligibleS I will annes a dFrawing of the divisions (Tab*XVI.fig. 2) numbered indeed only to every ten degrees; though the instrurnent itself has a figure at every degree, that one may always be in the field of view of the microscope. Herety it may be seen, that all on one side of the telescope give zersith distances, while all on tlle other side give altitudes S and yet, that thefigures in both the quadrants nearest to the objectend are placed with their heads tosvards the centre, and all towards<tlle eyevencI with their feet. Ihis became necessary X and though it vvas a little pe-rplexing at first to contrive, and see executed ploperly, it is found very gollvenient indeed ;1a use. of a Transit Ctrcle.The interior divisions, or cuts, are also nulnbered at every degree each waya from tShe eye-end to the objecXt-end of the telescope, with the feet of the figures always towards the centre. The use of them is likewise very great; not for reading offthe observationjs, but for setting the instrument.FQ!; at a proper distance from the mai-n pi-llars, there isa sluall pIllar, carrying a compound microscc)pe with a svire in its fo cus; which beingb adjustable, and once set to the latitude of the place, gives immediately the north polar distance of any object seen o or, by fixing the instrument according to the polbar distance of an object sought, one is certain of its enter ing, at the proper timeS tlae field of the telescope, llear thg centre wiire. This p-illar for the polar microscope, is removeable to the other side of thew mata pillars; which becomes necessary when the instrulnent is reversed. This in general is the form, and these are the peculiarities xn thev Collstruction ofthis instrumerlt ? whichs being designed for meridi-an observationsn or transitsS I apprehend may best be named a TRANSIT CIRCLE. Inz the progress of it, wllen the divislons came to be exa milaed in their proper positionn as to the truth of the opposite dcats being exactly in the diameter of the circlen an error was discoveredn which occasioned a great deal of trouble, and much loss of titne. When the InicrQScopes had been adjusted with care, after turning the cirele one way, they continued true, arld tlle same dots shewed themselves to be perfectly in the diameter, hovvever often the circle were turned the same way round : but on one or more revolutions the contrary wayn the same dots ceased to appear true. 'rhis;, it was thoughtn could arise only from some de57iatiorl ln the centre. A3ndn sitlce the Mr. WOLLASTON S DescrzpttonYs hanglng;n glmlnals tras a new experimerlt, this error was supposed tow take its rise from some shake irl them. They were examined, arld were altered in various ways. IVixed Ys t.. were then made, of the usual form ; others of a larger; others of a more acute angle. The difficulty was still thought to continuee Recourse was then had to Ys in gimmals again, which I svas unvilling to give up; and friction-rollers were applied to take oF sorne of the nweight. Still this error did continue in a Small degree: yet was -tllat degree so small, as not to be discernible at the polar microscope ; nor, as far as I could see, at those belonging to the plumb-line, and sometimes scarcely so -at the others7 toS whose greater magrlifying power it seemed to be owing that it was at all perceptible. The cause I then supposed to beS in a dispositioll in t3ze pi-YQtS to gatller up the side of the Ys towards which they were turned. Yet was that: not tlle cause: for what little motion there wasa I found afterwards to be in a contrary di-rection. This Ied me into discovering, and at last rectifying the defect. The original idea of hanging the Ys in gimmals, as was said before was derived from Mr. SMEATON; who kindly shewed to Mr. CAR;Y those mrhicli he hacl made to a small transit instrument for his onvn use. His ought scarcely, irz strictness, to be called Ys; for he had zmade a little hollow on eacll side where the pivots would touchn as a sort of bed to receive tlaemn and lnake the angle less pinching. This, Mr. CARY had ! imitat-ed : and, though I did not mean he should3 he did the same to: the second pair he made, after -trying the other kinds. Since it was done, I let them so remain till I got the instrument honie e for-I really fbund a11 of a Transit Circle@47trials so disturbed by the shaking of carriagesn wllile it-? was at his 11ouse, tllat I could make no satisEactory examination there myse!f When the instrument was in its place, I tried every experiment I could contrive to discover tlle cause of this error a whether it could be in the microscopes themselves; any shake in thern, or in the pillars, or in the llanging of the Ys Finding none of these to be in fault; and, upon trying the= instrurnent at every lo degrees a11 roundn perceivirlg the axis thrown backward itlstead of forward UpOll turning either way, it occurred to-me,-that any grease or other particles would have it more in their power to produce that effiect iin a sortof pivot-hole, (which tlle hollowed sides really are) than between two fair flat surfaces. I thereupon took out the Ys, andShad them formed to an exact right-angle, vith the wQhole sides perfectly smooth, and flat, and well finished: and, since that has abeen done, I really can discover no difference which; ever way the circle be turned 7 but think I may now say that deviation is quite removed. Yet9 I apprehend, it woulcl have been of no consequence if ;t had continued, or been greater thatz it was. For, since the readings are as it were in a line above and below the celatre, and both of them positive; any motion of the centre towards the right hand, would give the dots, both above and below, the appearance of being rnore to the left than they ought to be, and thence would give the measurement too smallS and that in an equal degree in eacll; SQ that the sum of zenith distance given by one microscope, and of altitude by the othern would thereby be less than go degrees, by just double the error. And if the axis be moved towards the left, the contrary would be the result c ° the -sum would e2nGeed 9o dee 8Mr. WO LL AS T ON S Descrittiongrees, by just double that quantity. Hence, the difference fiom go degrees, at the same time that it gives a mean betwTeen tlDle two readings, would reduce the error or deviation ;of the axis to nothing. The instrument here described, is of the size I thought would be most convenient for my own use: indLeed it is full :-a-s large as I should recommend errer to be tnade in that moveable form. It stands on a cylinder of one solid stone) of 252 inches dialnete-r and feet 6 inches long, bedded on a -pier of brick, well lSonded otogether, and risirlg from a gosd foundation deep in the eart:h Tlle stone is clear of the floor a11 roundf and is very steady indeed: the instrument rarely varies at-all, in any respec-t. It is adjulsted in the tneridian t;o twio mariks, the orwe north, the other south ;$o that now they are traly l31aced, the -coll^-imatiorl of the telescope is easily examirled, without lifting ethe circle out of its Ys. I may be supposed partial to a-rl idea which I Jhave long entertainedf but I aontess9 I should very strongly recomnlend ithe havillg arl irlstrument of this nature, though more perfect, in every-observatory; I mean a transit instrument, on stone piers, with a suitable circle arld microscopes, that, whenever you olbserve a meridlan passage, you lnay, at the same timef measure the exact al-titude, or zenith distance of every obj<t seen. The being obliged, in the cotumon way, to have recourse to tw-o diSerent instrumentsn occasions the zenith: distances to be much less frequently observed than it is to be wishedthey were. It is true the British catalogue asn for the rnost partS deluceEl from observations with/ a quadrant alone; and sc) was 1VIA-YERVS. But, though labour and 3atent perseverancea mayRenable an observer to allow for of a Tw wanszt Circle.149-any deviations in the limb9 a xquadrant s at the 15est bu1; an ;mperfect instrumeret for rlght ascensions. I believe, in the best observatoryn I should GOlle rnyself to a telescope of 45 inches, with a circle of about 3 feet 6 inches. Such a teiescope would have great powerX aXd tile whole would not be elacumbered witl] too great weiglat. If the telescope 13e of G feet, the circle must be of 4 feet 6 inches. But I certainly should dissuade the eYer going beyond that; and I doubt wiletiler t1-le great additional weight cf metalt and the disparities there will be in sch a mass, would IlOt courlteract the advai1tage of a longer telescope. Beside, it may deserve consideration, that in a larger instrumene some parts tuay be out -of the extent of the observer's arms, which he could wish to reach. Our late friend, Mr. SMEATON, was against a circle of above 3 feet dialneter. Between stone pierss there mllstbbe a doube al3paratus of microscopesS &c. to use when the instrutnent is reversedg In conclusiorl, it nay perhaps be prol?er to add, since some -gentlemen may feel inclined to ask, How my instrutnent has performed ? whether ln acl;ual observatioll it does what was expected from it ? To this, I think, I now may fairly answer n the aSrmative; tllat I do find it a very useful instrurnent, arld the hest adapted, of any that I know, to the perfecting of our catalogues* For some timen I will confess, I hacl my doubts I received it in tlle beginning of the win*erS when the cold and dark xveather made all examination of it irksorne; Ns a i:ranSit-inStrumer3t7 I soon svas satisSied witlh its performances e5J2 iN respect of the pole star itself. It is very steady > and rarelLy wants any re-adjusttnent at all As a circle, I was 1lot. The doviation of the asisS tllough both-nnels,; as far as I couldt Af2CC tCItI < Mt } * } r. WOLLASTON S LlescrsytZoXjudge, seemed always to deviate equally perplexed me much q alld destroyWed all confidence. The collirnation in altitude (Xvhose error when constant, is unilnportant) appeared variable b and seemed to give uncertain conGlusions. \7Vhether that took its rise from the obiect-glassn or the wires; from the hallging of the plllmbline, or the microscopes, was doubtful. All these things it took up much tirrwe to investigate. But I think I now may say these difficulties are all surmounted. The error in the YS7 it has been said alreadya is cured. The oVject-glass I suspected might have some little sbake, from its being attached to a false tube on tlle outside,Eand therefore liable to be touched, instead of being witllin the ttlte of tlle telescope itself. This was rnade more certainly steady. The wires I was sure did not mov-e. Neither did the microscopesS after I 11ad set them perfectly at ease; for I follnd that in the first placing, I had a little cramped one of them. The dots came then to be examined5 by which the plumb-line is adjusted e or rather, I should say by which the circle is brought into a position for adjusting the microscopes. Here a srnall error was discovered. It has beell mentioned already, that there are four pair of dots for this purpose. Though laid og I am satisfiedn at first with the greatest care, and strictly true X the opening or enlargin$ of them afterwardsn to make them JllSt visible on each side of the plumb-line, had occasioned some very smaIl diffierences in them; in respect of their adjoining divisions or dots on the limb The adjusting therefUre to a diffirent pair of these dots, which I had done, would necessarily occasion a diffierence in the-collimation. This being avoided, by using always the same; and other causes of errGr leing removeei v the collimation for altitude seems now ? a ] razzsit (:rcleeto sIbe as steady as can well be desired. I had more of these dots; because, the instrument being new, I could not be cer tain in what position it might be found most convenient to adjust. I now do it always with the telescope pointing to the senith arad in another instrument, I should recolurnend the having no more than two dots for that purpose. Some small errors I do perceive, which I believe are to be ascribed to the great power of my lnicroscopes, which are too strong for srorks of art. It svas against the judgment of Mr. CARY that they magnified so mucll and 1 believe he was in the right. Some errors are certainly to be laid to the charge of my own eyes, which do not define objects as they used to do. E3ut in general, I may fairly say, my observations of the same star, seldom diSer from each otller above S seconds in altitude, and most commonly they are Smuch withirl that limit. In observi<ng, I always study to be as much at my ease as possible: and therefore I always sit, and use a prismatic eyeglass. To avoid touching the instrument itself, or even the stone on which it starldsS I have four upright poles from the floor to the roof, with cross braces on a level with the bottom plate of the instrument v against which I may leany while I observe, or when I handle any part of t;he instrulnentO tlnhese I find to be of great comfort and use. Against two of the poles I hang a curtain occasioulally, to keep off the sun, or to lessen the false light when I observe a star in tlle day. tTlae two exterioT horizontal wires, rrlentioned above, I fildS rery convenient. They are really 14' 4g",, of a gr-eat circie distant from the centre. By means of themn I cann without any llurry, observe the preceding limb of the sun at S wires; Mr. WOLLASTON s Descriptio7s1S2then set the;< loWer limb to the upper wire, and read that of; set the upperi limb to thei lower wire; am ready to observe the second limb of the sun -at the gd, 4thn and sth wires, and last]yn read off the upp er limb after the observation is ended. In this wayf one has the meridian passasge through the lniddle of the field, or within 2t of it: and the meridian altitude owf both the limbs, whilenthe sun's centre is on the meridian; for the llttle alteration in altitude is soon done and can disturb nothitlgX 4 Indeed, upon the whole, this instrument itself is capable of doing a ;reat deal of good work; and corlvinGes ule fully that one betweerl piers-would be highly advantageous to astronomy. s As a transit, mine is perfect so far as that size permits: indeed it is in fact to all intents a transit; instrument. And for altitudes X since the readings are totally independ@nt of the circle, though you have it in your power to re-examine your microscopes by the plumbline between each observa tion, if you please; you find there iDs no-occasion forzit. In that respect, it has the advantage over a quadrant. No force is used in setting;;this instrument: the wholes from its form, is counterpoised in itself: there is no more probability of deranging it in altitude, than in azimtlth: and thereforeS all you have to do in actual observation beyond a common transit-instrument, is to bisect the star as it passesS or as soon as everit has passed the meridian wire, and read off the microscopes afterwards. Thus every observation is complete; hy ascertaining the right ascension and altitude of efirery object at once, arld with very little trouble; which nust tend greatly to the improvement of our catalogues. There is one additional-advantage in an instrument of iCJ.$: '422J: >p C ('X('II1. 7'S/J. Xv fJ. / )--9 X, R ow : o,, O ol LF A, fv . ! t [ I ,. Vg * t f f ¢ 3 s * -< > ' A *\ X t; , k 1 S . S S w >s ah F. r. crm. ma.-X. w {saCS,g ee Wr of a Transzt Circle. a;3+ this form that you have it in your power to reverse the whole in a few minutesi vithout any hazard S which XI do re-gularly ;: because thereby you discover7 and destroyS any errors which there may be in the instrument itself; or whichh may at any time arise in observing 