g t82 3 XVII. Observations og a Current that often-prevails to the Westward of Scilly a endangering the Safety of Ships tbat approach the British Channel. By James RennellX Esq. FoR:So Read June 6^ 179s 1T is a circumstance well known to seamen, that shlps, in coming Wom the Atlantic, and steering a course for the British channeln in a parallel somewhat to the south of the Scilly Islands, do, notwithstarlding, often find themselares to the north of those lslands: or, in other words, in the mouth of the St. George's7 or of the Bristol channel. This extraordinary error has passed for the effects, either of bad steerageS bad obserlrations of latitude, or the indraught of the Bristol channel: but none of these account for it satisfactorily c because admitting that at times there may be an indraught, it cannot be supposed to extend to Scillyf and the case has happened in weather the most favourable for navigating, and for taking observations. The consequences of this deviation from the intended track, have Yery often beerl fatal: particularly in the loss of the Nancy packet, in ourown times, and that of Sir CLOUDESLEY SHOVEL, and others of his fleet, at the Wginning of the present century. Numbers of cases, equally melancholy,but of less celebrity, have occurred ; and many others, in which the danger has been imminent, but not fatalf harre scarcely reached the public ear. All of these have been ZM;. RENNELL is Observatiwons on a Curreng @¢X3wferred to acciden-t ; and:therefore no attempt seems toC have Xbeen made, to investigate the cause of them. I-am however of opinionS that tlley may be imputed to a speci>Sc cause; namelyi a current: and I shall therefore endeavour to-irlvestigate botla that, and its-effects; that seamen lnay be apprzed ofthe tlmes, when they are particularly to expect it, in any -considerable degree of strength; for then only} it is likely to occasion mischief; the current that prevails at ordinary times, being, probably, too weak to produce an error in the reckoning-) equal to the diSerence of parallel, between the south part of Scilly, and the track -thZat a comlnancler, prudent in llis measures, but unsuspicious of a current, would chuse to sail in.+$It seems to be gellerally allowed, that there is always a currellt, setting round the Capes of Finisterre, and Ortegal,, lnto the Bay of Biscay. This I have the authority of Captain MENDOZA RIOS, a Fellow of the Royal Society, and an officer in the royal navy of Spaina for asserting. Besides, such an inti mation was amongst the earliest notices that I receiveda concerning matters of navigation,-when -an b-card of a ship that sailed close along the north coast of Spain, in s757* The current thens is admitted to set to the eastward along the coast of Spain ; and continues its course, as I am assured, along the coast of -France, to the north, and north-west^. and indeed,any body of water, once set in motion, along a coast, carlnot suddenly tqp > rlor does it, probably, lose that motion, until * It may be remarked, by the way, tha.t the true latitude of the presetlt lighthouse on St. Agnes's Islaxld, is +gt -54'; and that of the most southerly part of the -whole group of islands and rocks is 49°, 52', This is according to aIl advertisement ;ven out by the Trinity House. in s792. gB2 184Mr. RENNELL@S Observations on a Currentby degrees it mixes with the ocearl S after being projected into it either frotn the side of some protnontorya that extends very ffar beyond the general direction of the coast ; or afterbeing conducted into it, through a strait. The original cause of this current, I apprehencl to be, the prevalence of westerly winds in the Atlantic e which, inlpelling the waters along the north coast of Spain, occasions a current7 inl the Erst instance. The stronger the wind7:: the more water will kne driven into tlae Bay of Biscayg in a glven time f and the Icnger the contirluance of the svind, the farther will the vein of current extend It seerlls to be clearly proved, that cllrrents of water, after running along a coast that suddenly challges its direction (as happexls on the French coastn at the promontory south of Brest) do rlot change their course with that of the shoretabut preserve9 for a considerable time the direction which they received from the coast they last ran by. In some instarlces, after being projected into the sea, they never again approach the shore; but preserve, to a very great distance, nearly the direction in which they were projected, as well as a consi derable degree of their original velocityv and temperature. The gulf stream (of Floricia) is a wonderful instance of this kind"; : whicll) originating in a body of pent-ups watersS in the Gulf of Mexicof is discharged svith such velocity,through the Straits of l3ahama, that its mot;ion is traceable through the Atlalltic, to the Bank of Newfoundland; and may possibly extend much farther. This being tllerefore the case9 we can have no difEculty in conceivingn that the current of the Bay of Biscay continues its course, wllich may be about NW by W from the coast of France, to tlle vvestward of Scilly and Ireland tbat ofEen prewazls to the Westward tf Scilly.<83At ordinary times, it$ strenvh may not be great enough to preserve its line of direction; acro-ss the mouth of the Bri tish Channel; or if it does preserve its directiorl, it rnay rlot have velocity enough to throw a sllip so fir out of her course as to put her in danger. But, that a current prevails generally, .. . there carl be little doubt; and its clegree of strength will be regulated by the state of the winds. After a long interval of moderate westerly gales, it may be hardly perceptible t for a very few miles of northingn in the 24 hours, will be referred to bad steerage, or some other kind of error: but after hard and continuecl gales from the western quarter,-the current will be felt in a considerable degree of strength ? and not only irl the parallel of Scilly, but in that of the south-west coast of Irelazd likewise. Our observation of what passes in the most common waters, issufficient to shew how easily a curretlt may be induced by the action of the windS on the water contiguous to a bankn wherl the wind blows alongit. In a canal of about four miles in length, the water was kept upfour inches Iligher at one end, than at the othern by the mere action of the wind, alollg the canalJ Ihis was an experiment-macie, and reported to me, by my much lamented acquaintance, the late Mr. SMEATON. We know also, the effiects of a strong southwestor north-westn windn on our own coasts: naulely, that of raising vertr high tides in the British Channel or in the Thames7 and on ffie eastern coasts; as those winds respectively blow: because the water that is accumulated, cannot escape quick enoughS by the Strait of Dover, to allow of the level being preservedv Alson that the Baltic is kept up atwo ffieet at least. by a stxong NW wirld of arly GorltinuRnce: arld M. RENNELL8S Observations on a Currentthat the C-aspian Sea is higher by several -feet, at either ends as a stron-g northerly, --or southerly, wind prevails. There<fore, as water (pent u-p, in a situation from which it cannot ebscape, acquires a higher level, soS in a place where it can -escape, the same operation produces a current: and this current will extend to a greater or less distance, according to the force with which-it is set in motion, or, in other words, according to the height at which it is kept up, by the wind. It may possibly b-e asked, why a similar current does not prevall ln the British Channely from the same westerly winds ? To this I answer, that the increased height and velocity of the tides, during the prevalence of such winds, prove that a part, at least, of the same effect which happens in the Bay of Biscay, is produced in the(Channel; and I have little doubt5 that there is, in fact, a current also v but that, as it is blended with the common tide, the effict on the senses is lost: for it may appear only in the formof a ;stronger floc)d tide, ox a weaker ebb, than at other times. Whereas the Bay, a wider space, and of a different forna, allows a freer scope to the: tides, than the British Channelw does: it being high water nearly at the same time, all over the Bay; but varying in the Charlnel, at least five hours. And it may be concluded, from analogy, that the form of the Channel does not allow of the.same-effiect being produced by the wind, on its included waters, as may be produced on those of the Bay: these meeting with an opposition, in the coast of Frarlce, the others llavinUg a partial exits at the Strait of Dover: we may also conclude, tilat if no such phanomenon as a tide existed, a current, though less strong than in the Bay, would be per c^ceIveilhin-the 13ritish Charlnel. that oJ:ten prevazls to the IYestward of Scillyw 187 Of the Bay of Biscay it mayX be observed that by reason of its form, and exposure to the reigning winds, which are offen violent and which pass over a vast expanse of water, there is no part of the ocean, familiarly known to us, whose circumstances are, in any degree, similar to it. It ought not therefore to surprize us, if we find that it diffiers, in arly particular, from other seas. Seamen have remarked lts uncommorl degree of agitationo ill stormy weathex*; but this has not, as fiar as I know, been properly accoullted: for. Mayl itnot be owing generally, to the same callsei as that which produces the current ? and aet times, to the very current itself ? With respect to the; first-the waves of a dee? bay or gulf, when the wind forcesthe water irlto it, will meet withN a resistance inv the land at th-e head of it,^ which must occasikon a reverberation, that will render the surface of a great part of the gulf more unquiet, tharl when there is an opening at the end to allow the undulatory motion a freer scope. What is said here is esemplified on a small scale, by Mr. SMEATON'S very ingenious manner of quieting Ramsgate harbour. (See his Tract on that harbour, page 4-G.)1 And with respect to the second cause-the effiect of a currerlt running to windward, in producing a short, hollow, and therefore dangerous, wave, is pretty well known. Accordingly, at seasons when the current runs strong, ands the wind blows fresh from-the north-west quarter, this callse mustalso contribute to the agitation of the watersn in the north par.t of thes bayet * How-far the reverberatory tnotion may-;extexwds I know not: but it is certain that: an undulatory motion impressed on the sea by the wiIld, will extend to a prodigious distance, and evetl into a region svhere a different wind prevails: as for instance, a stell raised by a strong galea at south, or south-west, in the tract of variable winds, ll. ;ENNELLs: Observations on a CurrentIt is quite ancertain at what interval of time, from the commencement of strong westerly galest in the Atlantic arld Bay of Biscay the current may operate on the tracks of ships near Scilly; tbr nte are not possessed of-the datan requisitq for determining it. If we were to conceive a current, originating on the coast of Spainj and aftertards disturbing the courses of shipsn -orl the west of Scilly and Ireland v this wouldrequire too much time, to agree with one of the instances which I mean to adduce: although it ls probable, that this may be nearly the eSect at ordillary times, and when the westerly vinds blow moderately. But as, in one striking irlstance, it appears thatvthe currerlt operated in a very renwarkable manner, -on the sllip5s course, on the fourth day after the commencement of the galea in the quarter where the ship vvras ; the cause should ratller be looked for, in; the sudden and great accurnulation of water in the Bay of Biscay: otherwise, there is no accounting for the sudden appearance of the current. And the very act of accumulation, causing an indraughtn tllere will consequently be a current round the Capes Aof Finisterre, and*Ortegal, towards the Bay. Be the exact causen however, what it may itno doubt originates in the Bay, by the action of strong westerly winds: tlaNe prevalence of such winds, will therefore be the signal for the appearance of a current between Ushant and the south-west coast of Ireland + for though the cause carl only be guessed at, the effect is too well ascertaineda to remainin doubt. I shall now adduce the facts, Qr} which the idea of the existence o-f a current is founded. has been felt, very far wirbill the limiS of the southeast tmde winds in the Indlan oGDXB. that often prevZ51s to the tEestzvard of SciRlly4]:n crossing tlle eastern part of the Atlantic, in the TIECTOR :East India sllipn in t778 we encountered, betweerl the pa mllels of 4 arid 49, very strong westerly gales, but particularly between the z6th a,nd 24,th of Januaryd whell,;at inter va1Ss it blew witla uncommon vXlolence. It varied two, or more, points, both to tlle north an-d south of west, but blew longest from the northern points v and it extended, as I after^ srards learn:ta froin the coast of Nova Scotia, to that of Spainv V5ve arrived wthin 60 or 70 leagues of the meridian of Scillyf on tlae Soth of January, keeping between the parallels of 49 and So S alld about this time* we began to feel a currentS whicll set the ship to tlle north of her irltended parallel, by near half a degree, in the Interval between tsvo observatioas of latitude, that is, in two, days. And the vvind earer after wards, inclining to the south, would not permit us to regain the parallel; forn altllough the northern set ras triflingx frorn the 31St until we arrived very near Scilly; yet the u7ind, being both sca}t arld light, we could never overcome the tendency of the currellt. Add to tllis that the direction of the currentS being nluch more westerly than northerly we crossed it on so very oblique a course that we continued in it a long time; and were drivens as it appears, rlear go-leagues to the mrest by it: fs3r we had soundings in 73 fathoms, ln the latitude of Scilly,, and afterwards -ran lSo miles, by the log, directly east before we came the length of the islands In eiectn in running 120 milesn we shallowed the water, only nine fathomsX We not only were sensible of the current, by the observaF tions of latitude, but by rzplings on the surfice of the waterS d by the directioll of the lead line The consequence of a]l MBCCXC II It 2 C Mr. RENNELL9S Observvtions on a Currentthis wasS that we were driverl to the north of Scilly; and were barely able to lay a coitrse through the passage between those islands and the Landvs End. lIaving no time keeper on board, we were unable to ascertain the several points, in this part of our track, and therefore can only approximate our longitudeS and that but very coarsely. But according to what we learnt from our soundings, and from a vessel which had only just entered the current, it may be concluded, that tlle current, at times, extends to 60 leaguesS west of Scilly S and also runs close on the west of those islands. However, the breadth of the stream, may probably be little more than so leagues 3 for we crossed it, as has been said, very obliquely; and perhaps, in the widest part. The jourllal of the ATLAS East India ship Captain (COOPERN 1ll 1787, furnishes much clearer proofs both of the existence of the current, and of the rate of its motion: for havi<g tiine keepers on board Captain COOPER was frequently enabled to note the difference betweerl the true, and tine supposeci -longitude; and it rnay be said, that this journal, by the means it affords of ascertaining the currerlt, is llighly valuable, as £ontaining sorne very important facts, and which might have been ent-irely lost to the public, had not Captain COOPER marked them, in the most pointed marlner. I sllall proceed to state, in abstract7 the most important of the facts recorded in the journal. The ATLAS sailed witll a fair wind, and took her departure frorn the Isle of Wight orz the e$th of JanuaryS 1787; and on the 27th had advarlced 45 leagues to the westward of Ushant; when a violent gale of wind began at south arlds that often prevails to the Westward of Scilly.191al30ut 1t hours afterwards, changed sudderuly to the westward. The gale contillued througl1 the four fbllowing days: on the 223th, it was generally Wby S and WSW; orl the 2gth,0 SWbyW, or more southerly; and on the Soth and st, SSSW, to SW hy $. During this long ilaterval, the ship was generally Iyvng tv and with her head SQ the-NW. On the lSt of February, the wind abated, but still blew frolil the-south-westward; and the ship was kept to tlae northwest. The storrny weather returned again tlae following day, and continued, with little interinission, until the z lth ) blowing from all the intermediate points, between sout-ll and WNW; but chiefly, aIld most rriolently, from the W5W,-and SW. At intervals, on the 8th and Dth in particular, the journal remarks7 that c; zt blew a mere harricane.'' Ot1 the th, the weather growing more lnoderate, and the wind favourable, the ship proceeded on her course, southward ) being then two degrees and a quarter of longitude, to the west of Cape Finisterre, by the reckonsng; but by the time keepers, more than four degrees and a ha. After the above abstract of the proceedings of the ship I shall subjoill the following particulars; whicll are the most in point, to the purpose of the preisent discussion. On the 27th, at noon, soon after the gale commenced, the longitude, by reckoniilg, agreed witllin + minutes of that shewn by the time keepers7 the latter being the most svesterly. This diffierenGe alone might well have arisen from * In this, as well as rn the former statement of the winds, I have alloved for the variation of the cc)mpass; that the application of it, to the quarter of the heavenss and to the chart annexed, (see Tab XXI.) may be more easy and clears 2 C !kMr. RENNELL'S; Obser7vations on a Current .192an error in the Iog, or even in the position of the needle point on the Isle of Wight from whence the departure was taken 5 but-it may also be owing to the westerly current whilst the ship remained in it, on the 27th; if we adl:nit tllat such a current prevails at all times, though irl different de grees of strength.Here it is proper to remark, that in deli neating C-aptain CooPEs track, on the chart, I have scrupu lously adhered to the result of each day's work, of the reckoning, as I find it in his journal, contenting myself with in serting my own observatiorls on the track, in this paper only ; where -theyX cannot mislead. The longitudes pointed out by the time keepers on the e8th, 2gth, and ^goth, shew, that the increasing, though trifling diffierences, between the true longitude, arld that by the dead reckoning, had amounted to 24 minutes only on the Soth. At this time the ship was about 24 leagues to the WSW of Scilly; and, at or 6 leagues to the SSE of this position, (that is, at 2s leagues SW by W from Scilly) they had soundings at yo fathoms. This last particular is men tioned, to prove: that the longitude shewn by the time keepers (8° 28' west from London) was nearly the langi tude in whicll the ship really was, on the goth of JarluarJrO That of St. Agnes (Scilly) is taken at 6Q 46'. The Atlas was rlow entered into the stream of the same current wlaich occasioned so much delay to the Hector but the course of the Atlas, being opposite to that of the Hector7 it facilitated her progress ; and also carriedaher clear of the south-west coast of Irelande Orl tlhe Sost, the time keepers shewed that the ship had been set very corlsiderably to tlae westward of the reckorling > and by lhat often prevazls to tbe MesGzuar@:of Scilly.193the-2d of February, at o irl the afternoon, itappeared that she had: beerl set two whole degrees of longittud@ to the west of the reckorlingX since the 30th at noon, that isn ill the course of hours-. (Here it may be proper to remark, that I have, throughout, reckoned according to sea timeS that isf the day commences at noon. ) On the Sd of February, at rzoona the; time keepers shewecl a further set, of 23minutes of longitude, lnore than the reckoning gave, irl theinterval since thee last observationb which was 4tS hours S so that, since tlle goth of January, 4 days only, the ship had been earried by the current, no less than two degrees and twenty-three minutes S and since the 27th, when the gale began, 2° 32t of longittlde) amounting, in these -parallels, to ninety-nine marine miles But here, the current appears to have totally left themv and: it isvery probable, that it even ceasecI before the time-of observation, on the Sd for the ! succeeding observations-of the th, 6thy *7ths gth, aoth, and slth, although thestrorlg westerly gales continued, come so near the longitude by thereckoning (deduceEl from the observation of the gd) that the diffierences, which are sometimes to the east, and at other times to the west, may be with more propriety ascribed to trrors of the log, tharl to a current; as may be seen by the two tracks on the chartr We may therefore corlcludeS that the current did not cease at the very point of time, when the observation of the 3d was taken, but probably some time beforee It appears then, that the Atlas experienced a westerly-current, from a point about 24 leagues to the WSW of Scilly (if not earlier) to four degrees of longitude west of the meridian i94 Mr. RENNEL1sS Observations on a Cgrrent of Cape Clear@ in the parallel of z where its effects were no longer perceptible. Andg as no current was felt in the track southward, on the l 1th ; rlor in any part of the track to the north-west, between the gd and loth, although it was felt nearltT in the same line of direction, between the lst and Sd7 it may be inferred that -the streann goes off to the northwestf between the aforesaid track, and the south-west coast of Ireland. It is much to be regretted that no -observations ap pear on the 12th and lSth; which would have been decisive of its course. I come now to two 13articulars of the case, wllichS I con fess, perplex me exceedingly The first is that the current was felt, apparellt;ly in itsufull strength, on the fourth day af ter the commencement of the gale; which begall at south, then changed suddenly to tlle west alld WSW and afterwards fixed in the SW quartere This gale was felt between the 48th and Sotla degrees of latitude, and, no doubt, extended its effects very far to the south and west; but what the state of the wvinds had been in those quarters, previous to the 27th of Jalluary, we are ignorant. Tlle winds in the Bri tish Channel had been easterly, for three days preceding the gale: the fourth day, preceding, t-here had been strong gales at SW t and the five days preceding that, there had bee< chiefly light wunds at west. According to this state of facts, we can only suppose that the current originated from a vast body of water, pent up in the Bay of Biscay, by violent gales of wind; frst from tlle soutllward, eleve< hours f then from a point or two to thesouth cf west ; and lastly} at south-west. i Cape CleaI is reckoned to be in long. 9° 2S' from LDndon. that oftera prevails to the We-stward of Scilly193We are not to consider the water of this current, as havillg made tlae circult of the EJay of Biscay, but as the collective body of pent up waters, in the Bay, runnillg off along the SW coast of 13ritallny, and tllence to the north-westward 4 preserving nearly the direction it laud acquired, by running along that coast. And it may be concelved, that the frequent recurrence of westerly wTinds, keeps up a constant current in the Bay, and to some distance beyoncl it; although during the longest intermissions of these winds, the current may become so slowg as to be scarce perceptible. The second particular which perplexes me, is, that no northern set is inclicated by (Captain COOPER'S journal: that is to say, by the mode in which each day's log is wrought 7 and whichn in the formation of the chart, as is said before, I have strictly adhered to It indeed appears to me very wonderful, that no northing should appear, when it seems to be the very same kind of current wllich carried the Hector so far to the northwardv It is certain, that the state of the wPeather was such, as to preclude those nice attentions to tlle reckoning, which might enable us to detect ally small differerlces, between the latitucie by account, and that by observation X although the western set was too considerable to es cape notice, and may even Ilave been more than the statennent sets forth I cannot therefore, by any means admit that there was rlo northing in the currerlt through svhich the Atlas passed) first, because they had rzot obserrrations of lati tude, regularlyX and lastly, because on the st of 3anuaryS when Iytng to, :36 miles are allowed for go hours dr«t, to the north°west; which appears to me excessive. On that day they had no observatioll of latitude, and orl the followirlg Mr. ENNELL9S Observations on a Arrent199day, the observation :shewed two miles northingf which hosvever prove$ nothing. Again on the succeeding day, (the gd) in a rnost important point of the trackn there was no ob servation of latitude. In the Hector, precisely in the same track, alld at the same season of tlle year, th-e current had, as has rbeen observedS a considerable degree of northing in its course. On two days it was about 12 miles, each, on another day 1S, and -on two Others, n.and 8, and this., in mreather very favourable for lieepirlg a r.eckonJingn and with observations of latitude, on ev.ery day save one; not to mention the strong circumstances of a visible set to the northward, indicated, as well by the lead line, as by the ripling on the surfac.e of the w.ater. It is. in the nature of currents, to expand th.eirst.r.eams or.columrls of water, after being prog.ected into the oce.an X and theref.ore, according :to this 1av, the middle part of the stream should preserve tts .original .course, in a greater degree than the borders of it, SQ that -th;e .middle part may run to the NW.by WS whilst-tlae eastern border may run luore nortfserly and the western border more zvesterly. It is certain, that in the HectorS we felt thenortherly current much stronger close on the west.of S.cilly, than filrther QUt, vand it.app.eared by the dis-tance we ran,.after sounding in *73 fithoms, that the current ..Xnust haue s.et .much .more zuesterlyS than norlherlyo the whNole tilne. The..following remar.ks obviously<.occur, on the eff.7ect :of .this current.,* -st. Whatever -anay be the :breadth o..f tlle stream (which is at present unknown) .if -a ship crosses it very obliquely that as in an E by SS or lnore southerly direction (as may easily that oftex prevaiEs-to the Westward of Scilly. z97 happen, on finding herself too far to the northward? at the first place of observationn after she gets intoX thecurrent), she will, of course, continue much longer in it, and; will be more affected by it, than if she steered more directly across it. She will be in a similar situation, if she crosses it with light winds ,, and both of these circumstances shouId be attended to. And if it be true, as I suspect it is, that tlle -eastern border of the current hasa more northerly direction than the middle of it, thisalso should be guarded against* I conceive also, that the stream is broader in the parallel of Scillyg than farther rsouth*; And here we tnay0remark, that those who, from a parallel south of Scilly, have been carried clear of it to the north, wheSn approachirlg it, in the night, may esteem themselves fortunate that the current was so strong; for had it b-een weaker, they might haxre beerl carried on the rocksx 2d. A good observa-tiorz Vof Iatitude, at no-on, would be thought a sufficient warrant for runnirlg eastwardn during a long night: yet as-it mayibe possible to retnain irl the current, long etlough to be carried from a parallel that may be deemed a very safe one to that of the roclis of Scilly, in the course of such a night; it would appear prudent, aft-er experiencing a continuance of strong westerly gales in the Atlanticn and approaching the Channel with light southerly winds, either to make Ushant, or at all events to keep itl the parallel of 48°, 4,q5', at the highest. If they keep in ,g :3otv they will experience the whole effiect of the current, in a position where they can least remedy the evil: but if in 483, +rS' they areassailed by the north-west cuwent, they are still in a po$itiOtl from whence a southerly wind will carry them irlto the MDCGXC1II5 2 t Mr. RENNELL'S Observations on a Current-198Chanrlel.But all sllips that cross the AtlanticS arld are bound to the eastward of tlle Lizard 11ad better lnake Ushant allder the above circumstances, in times of peace. Or, at all events, -why should they run in a parallel, in which they are likely to lose: ground ? gd. Ships, bound to-tlle westward, from the lmoutll of the Channel, with the wind in the south-west quarter9 so that it may appear indiSerent which tack they go on, should prefer the larboardf tack; as they will then have the benefit of the current. 4th. I understand that the light house of Scilly is either removed, or to be rernoved, to the south-west part of the islands; or of the high rocks. This is certainly a wise measure-; asthe light should be calculated more particularly for ships that have a long, than a short departure, like those fromany part of the European coasts, to the northwardX or eastward. The light house ought also to be built very lofty. I am sorry to remark, that, as far as my observation has gone, this li«t lias never appeared clear and bright, as a light to direct ships ought to do th. It would be worth the attention of government (inmy humble opinion) to send a vessel with time keepers on board, in order to examine and-note the soundings between the parallels of Scilly and Ushant, at least; from the llleridian of the I,izard point) as far west as the moderate depths extend v I rnean such as can lJe ascertained with exactness, in the ordi-nary method of sounding. I have reason to suppose that our chart of soundings is very bad; and indeed, how caIl it be otherwise considering the imperfect state of the art of marirle -surveyin$, at the time when it was made ? A set of time thaZ olen prevatls to-he Mestzuard oJn Scil:Iy.^tS9KeePerS SWi11 e«eCt mOre il1 the GOUrSe d a S11mmEr, iR-tke handS Of a SkiSfUL PraC-titiOner; thaN aE11 the ISCienCe Of 13rS HALLEY, during -along life:; for who could place a sin:gle cast of soundings, in the open seay iavithout the aid of a :time keeper ? The current ila question, must have disturbed every operation of t;llis killd. It should be the task of t;he personl so employed, to note all the varieties of bottoma as weIl as the depths, the tiine of high and low water f setting of the tidesy artd currelatsX &c. Such a survey, skilfully conducted, might enable mariners to supply the want of observationsj of latitude, and of longitude ; and, of course, to defy the currents as far as relates to its power of misleading them. 6th. It ls certain, tllat the curre-tat in question may be somewhat disturbed -by? or rather will appear to be blended with, the tides at tlle entrances of the British and St. GeorgeJs Channels; but it is obvious that tlle current will have the same effect, insetting a ship out of her course as if no tide existedf because, wlaatever effect one tide may have the next will nearly do away. But there are two particulars,-< well worth ascertalning; atld these are, first, the point at whi-ch the two tides of St George's, and of the British Chan.. nel separate on the west of Scilly. And secondly, what degree of northing one of the streatns has more than the other Because a ship, in approaching Scilly from the west on a flood tide and keeping in a parallel which may be to the noErth of tlle point of separation of the two tides (and consequently in the ticle stream of St. G-eorge's Cllannel) lllay be thronvn too far to the north ;oalthough, had slae been far -enough to the west, to receive the effect of the next ebbs this smporary and alternate derangement of the course would 2 D 2 oo Mr. RENNELL'S Obserzxatzons on a Current, Sc have had no ill effector even have been noticed. But admitting that a tides with any degree of northing in it, does take place a Iittle to the west of Scilly this will furnish an additional reason for keeping in a southern parallel. k mS '4 0: F3ST llVDIS AEIPS,m1778 t1787, ExhibitedthaDesiptoFove the EsstJors the l<sistenceof a ¢trETsbetweenlTSENTalldIRELAN]). x _I , X A A: :S 5gME16rJt.r dzc diDrtvtte tt / 24 fZ ; 29<) tiue Hector wa; wet > dte ,7lret4 /t / ,J twAift ncnalt;y Mt ' ty.dEJ{z7z*V r?'et :G r s ' _ \ ot t I '9re> . s -r . T ff C ' , .Cs W. AsA/e jh i ' . vN ,ffi of . ' b;ve Ortegal _-> z C.]'tolet., rrol RtfieXxJ &;C DS, g? , 11 S >e Fiwisterrc \ 7 6° 5° 49 l ,, ,,2 4o i tort ]; 'corzent -Fg _ . t aw,,, S n1R ,<-N S C, '£ ,.uj.4 is, C a Nantz o \ e>' S "s N i %:\ t '''s <'M 11 ., q 21 v 4XRo cheJJe e f to(h(^folt 46 | NoW^r'coodesaawl s (,alsZz,, / ,, ; 1f bb 7 _Uv£ aFolll4e {/4'S ya 2 Z O Z 2 e 3 l 3 tt'''t If . *' 6 