(677) II. A Catalogue of some Guinea-Plants, with their Native Names and Virtues; sent to James Petiver, Apothecary, and Fellow of the Royal Society; with his Remarks on them. Communicated in a Letter to Dr. Hans Sloane. Secret. Reg. Soc. S I R, TH E Following Plants, with their Native Names and Vertues, I sometime since received from my Worthy and Reverend Friend, Mr. John Smyth, whilst he was Minister to the Royal African Company in the English Factory at Cabo Corso, vulgarly called Cape Coast, in Guinea. It were, Sir, needless to tell you the many Advantages that would accrue to the Art or Mystery of Physick, if the Vertues of all Simples were more nicely inquired into, or better known: I shall therefore wave it here, and only present you with an African Materia Medica, whose innocent Practice consists of no more Art than Composition, as you may see by the following Method, viz. 1. Aclowa, so called by the Natives in Guinea, dried and rub'd on all the Body is good for the Crocoes (or Itch.) Mr. John Smyth. Colutea Scorpioides Guineensis Tragacantha Foliis, nobis. Its Leaves very much resembling those of Tragacantha, are set by Pairs, to the Number of Twelve or Sixteen, and sometimes Twenty, each at a very small Distance, viz. about an Eighth of an Inch. The Pods are long, H h h h h smooth (678) smooth and strait, ending in a Point; some of them above Four Inches long, and not thicker than a Crows Quill; the Seeds are small, brown, short, thick and turgid; each separated in the Pod by a thin, spungy Intersepimentum or Partition. 2. Aconcroba, being boyled in Wine, and drank, is good in the Small Pox. Mr. J. S. This I have mentioned at No. 21. in my First Century, its Leaves are stiff as the Phyllirea, and opake (i. e.) not to be seen through, they grow opposite on very short Footstalks, are taper at Points and base, the largest one Inch and 1/4 (in the Middle) where broadest, and Three Inches long, very much resembling our Common Bay, are Black (now dry) on the upper side, and of a Pale Green underneath. 3. Acroe, Boyl'd in Wine and drank, is good to recover Strength. Mr. J. S. This is a Trifoliate Shrub, it hath the Face of the Coral arbor, but is not spinose, the middle or top Leaf stands on an Inch pedicle, whereas the Two opposites have none. 4. Affunnena, Boyl'd in Wine and drank, causes a Stool. Mr. J. S. 5. Afoba, Pounded and mixt with Oyl, is good for the Itch or Crocoes. Mr. J. S. This is a sort of Phaseolus, or Kidney-Bean, with small hairy Leaves and Stalks. 6. Afto, dryed to Powder and snuft, is good for the Head-ach, Mr. J. S. Erysimum lignosum Guineense tomentosum, nob. 7. Ambettuway, boyled and drank, causeth an Appetite to any sick Person. Mr. J. S. The Leaves of this in Shape and Roughness are like our Common Elm. 8. Amea, (679) 8. Amea, Dried into Powder and Snuft, stops the bleeding, Mr. J S. This hath alated or winged Leaves, and seems to be one of the Pajamirioba kinds, which you have so clearly distinguished in your most excellent Catalogue of Jamaica Plants, at Page 148. 9. Apobee, Boyl'd and drank, is good for the Small Pox. Mr. J. S. Chrysanthemum acaulon Guineense, foliis longis angustis, nob. 10. Aputtasy, The Teeth being wasnt with a Deccction of this in Water, is good for the Scurvy in the Mouth. Mr. J. S. This Tree observes no Order in the Position or setting on of its Leaves, being farther or nearer, and sometimes opposite, they are broad at the Base, with scarce any Foot Stalk, and so continue about Two Thirds, and then grow taper, are smooth and shining above, but soft beneath, and somewhat downy, especially the greater Ribs, which being held to the Light are darkly clouded, the largest Leaves are about Two Inches and an Half long, and One broad. 11. Aguaguin, made into a Plaister and applied to a Cut, cures it. Mr. J. S. The Leaves of this Shrub resemble the Common Lilac or Blew Pipe Tree; they grow alternately, and stand on half Inch Footstalks; if held to the Light you may perceive the lesser Veins very finely reticulated and subdivided. 12. Asasi, Boyl'd and so kept in the Mouth, is good for the Tooth-ach. Mr. J. S. This Tree somewhat resembles the Laurel, in respect to the Shape and Stiffness of its Leaves, which grow alternately on short Footstalks; its Branches are BlackH h h h h 2 ish, (680) ish, rugged and sprinkled with small, Reddish, Spanglelike Specks. 13. Ascindoe, Boyl'd and the Water drank is good for the Running in the Reins. Mr. J. S. Frutex Guineensis spinosus foliis subrotundis crenatis floribus filamentosis, nob. This is a Thorny Shrub, with roundish, smooth, crenated Leaves, somewhat more than an Inch broad, and about One and an Half long; these are set on very short Footstalks; at the top of each Branch stand small thrummy Flowers; its Thorns are bigger or less according as they come from the smaller or lesser Branches. 14. Assaba, Warmed in Water, and the Groin rubbed with it, is good for a Buboe. Mr. J. S. 15. Asserida, Chewed, is very good for the Belly-ach. Mr. J. S. 16. Assrumina, Pounded and rub'd on the Legs, kileth the Worms that breed there. Mr. J. S. 17. Atanta, Is very good to put in Broath for a Sick Man or Woman, it causing Strength. Mr. J. S. Rhus Guineense trifoliatum scabrum serratum, nob. This differs from that Cape sort which Dr. Plukenet,that most sagacious Botanist hath Figured in his Phytographia, Tab. 219. under Fig 7. (by the Name of Rhus Africanum Trifoliatum majus foliis obtusis & incisis hirsutie pubescentibus) in having its leaves edged with prickley Notches, whereas his is sinuated or rather deeply waved. 18. Attrow, Boyl'd and any swelled part washed in the Water (i. e Decoction) abateth it. Mr. J. S. Kali Guineense foliis Polygoni,floribus verticilli in modum dispositis, nob. I shall reserve its Description until I give you the Figure of it, which I design with some other Guinea Plants, Insects, &c. 19. Attrum(681) 19. Attrummaphoe, Boyl'd and drank, causeth the great sort of Pox to Skin and dry. Mr. J. S. The Juice of this Weed being snuft up the Nose, is good to make one sneeze. Mr. Edward Bartar. Of the Decoction of this Plant, is made a Drink good against the Phrensy. Hort. Malab. Colutea languinosa Floribus parvis siliquis pilosis deorsum tendentibus Mus. Petiver. 45. Orientalis plerumque heptaphyllos hirsuta, floribus spicatis saturate purpureis, siliquis plurimis quadratis valde pilosis summo succulorum dependentibus. Alm. Botan. p. 113. It was called by Dr. Herman (that late incomparable Botanist) Astragalus Indicus spicatus si liquis copiosis deorsum spectantibus non falcatis seu Polylobos. And by the Inhabitants of Ceylon Pilaeghas, as Joannes Comelinus asserts, in his Commentaries on the Hortus Malabaricus, in the Ninth Volume of which noble Herbal there is an Icon of this Plant, under the Name of Katu (which signifies Sylvestris or wild) Tagera, Tab. 30. p. 55. Whose Description of it I shall briefly transcribe and intersperse my own Observations concerning it. It grows in sandy Places, about Two or Three Foot high; the Roots fibrose and whitish; its Stalks woody, redish, and very hairy; the Leaves grow by Pairs,with one at the Extremity having Three or Five (I have Samples of it with Seven or more) covered on both sides with a soft woolliness (which are not exprest in the Figure, the like Omission I find in many others in this Work, whose Leaves, &c. are delineated smooth, although the Description and things themselves declare them otherwise) they have an astringent Tact, and are somewhat biting It hath many small deep Purple Papilionaceous Flowers growing in a Spike to the top (of a Leafless Stalk;) its Calyx is composed of Six very narrow Hairy Leaves, the Pods are also very hairy,roundish,but not thicker than a (682) a Packthread 3/4 of an Inch long hanging downwards on short (or rather no) Footstalks; the Seeds are small, lye length ways in the Pod, and are separated by a (thin) Partition. 20. Bumbunny, Boyl'd and drunk, causeth to vomit. Mr. J. S. 21. Caggow, Boyl'd in Water, and wash the Teeth, is good for the Tooth-ach. Mr. J. S. The Leaves of this Tree are smooth and shining, like the Lawrel, but thinner and veined like the Bay, they are Two Inches and 1/4 broad, and between Four and Five long, these are round at the Base, and pointed at the Tip, or End, they stand on an Half Inch Footstalk, Black next the Stalk and Leaf, and Greenish in the Middle, its Veins are very conspicuous and much subdivided on both sides. 22. Canto, Boyl'd and drunk is good for the Running (I suppose of the Reins.) Mr. J. S. 23. Concon, Pounded and mixt with Oyl, killeth the Worms in the Legs, by anointing with it. Mr. J. S. These Leaves differ from the Caggow-Tree, at No. 21. in being thicker, stiffer, and not so full of Veins. These are broadest within 1/4 of the Base, and from thence grow regularly tapering; its Footstalks are thicker, somewhat longer, and all of a Colour. 24. Cuttofoe, Boyl'd in Water and drank, is good for the Belly-ach. Mr. J. S. Anonis non spinosa minor glabra procumbens fl. luteo. D. H. Sloane Cat. Plantar. Jamaic. p. 75. This being that which you so plentifully find in Jamaica, particularly on the Banks of the Rio Cobre near the City of St. Jago de la Vega, or Spanish-Town: I shall here omit its Description expecting both that and its Figure in your much desired Natural History of Jamaica, which you have (683) have been so kind to promise the World the sudden Publication of. 25. Dancreta, Boyl'd in Water, and if the Head is hot, wash'd in the Water, abateth the Heat. Mr. J. S. Convolvulus quinque folius Guineensis foliis non serratis. nob. That laborious and indefatigable Reviver of Botany, Casper Bauhine, in his Prodromus, p. 134. gives you the figure of an AEgyptian Convolvulus, which he calls Quinquefolius, that exactly resembles this in every thing, the fine notcht Serratures of its Leaves only excepted, which in my Specimens are not clearly to be seen, although some of them seem to have such a Tendency or Disposition. 26. Dinjohn, Warm'd at the Fire, and applied to a Boil, breaks it. Mr. J. S. 27. Emphrue, Boyl'd and drank, causes Strength in Sickness. Mr. J. S. Mori folio non crenato Arbor Guineensis, nob. 28. Heniecoe, Boyl'd in Wine, is good for the Bellyach. Mr. J. S. 29. Issong, Put in Water, and the Head washt cureth the Head-ach. Mr. J. S. Pisum vesicarium, fructu nigro alba macula notato CB. .343. cordatum vesicarium Park. 1378. Fig. Halicacabum peregrinum ber. 271. Fig. id. emac. 342. Fig. It's also figured in the Eighth Volume of the Hortus Malabaricus, Tab. 28. p. 53. under the Malabar Name of Ulinga, It's call'd at Barbadoes, from whence I have also received it Parsly. I find you have also observed it-plentifully in Jamaica, as appears by your incomparable Catalogue at p. 111. to which for the Readers ease, I refer them to the many other synonimous Names, you have there with so much pains collected together. 30. Mening, (684) 30. Mening, Dried and made into Powder and snuft, is good for the Stoppage of the Head. Mr. J. S. Ricinus Guineensis Hederae quinquefol. Virginianae facie, foliis hirsutis, nob. 31. Metacoe, Pounded, and so applied, is good for a Cut. Mr. J. S. With these Leaves the Blacks also make Match for their Muskets, as my kind Friend, Mr. Edward Bartar informs me. 32. Obrang, Boyl'd in Water, and so wash the Cods, is good for the swelling. Mr. J. S. Glycyrrhizae folio singulari, Frutex Guineensis spinis gemellis, nob. 33. Pocumma, Pounded and dried and Bak'd in Bread is good for the Flux. Mr. J. S. 34. Santeo, boyl'd, and the Eyes washt with the Water, taketh away any Film or Pearl. Mr. J. S. The Leaves of this Tree grow opposite, with one at the end without Footstalks; the Joynts and setting on of the Leaves are blackish, they are of the make and bigness of the Lawrel. 35. Sora, Boyl'd and drank, is good for any Pain about the Body. Mr. J. S. The Leaves of this Shrub have the Shape and Bigness of those of Sena, but are somewhat woolly underneath, and are set on very short Foot-stalks. 36. Tetrephoe, Boyl'd in Broath is good for the Flux. Mr. J. S. This Plant grows also in Malabar, where they use the Root boyl'd in Whey, as a Remedy against the Piles, and the Powder of it cures the Belly-ach, Hort. Malab. Xanthium Malabaricum capitnlis lanuginosis Mus. Petiv. 99. Betae folio Malabarica semine Lappaceo Com. not. in H. Mal. Wellia Codiveli H. Mal. V. 10. Tab. 59. p. 117. From whence, and my own Specimens, I shall here (685) here give you a short Description of it. It's Stalks are somewhat woody and hoary (especially towards the top) the Leaves grow (by Pairs) on short Footstalks, the young ones are Velvetty underneath, the others in shape and hoariness not unlike Pulmonaria maculosa, or Spotted Lungwort, but seldom so large. The Flowers grow close together in a Spike, and are composed of Five Greenish Leaves fill'd with a Scarlet Thrummy Tuft. After that, towards the ripening of the Seed, the Burs in which they are included grow more spars'd, or at greater distance; they are covered with a woolly Substance, out of which proceed small hamated or crooked Prickles, very like our English Burdock (but Four times less) and stick like them to whatever they touch. In each of these is one small, longish, flat, vetchlike, blackish, shining Seed. It grows in any Soil. My ingenious Friend, Mr. Sam. Brown, hath also sent it me from Fort St. George, where I find there are many Plants, the same with those in Guiney. 37. Tetruma, Pounded to Powder and applied to a Whitlow, breaks it. Mr. J. S. Laurustini facie Arbor Guineensis, nob. The Leaves are oval, stiff and opak, One Inch and 1/4 broad, and 2 1/4 long, set alternately on all sides of the Stalk, on very short Pedicles, at and near the Top, from the Bosom of the Leaves, come forth Clusters of small Flowers, after the same manner with the Laurustinus or Wild Bay. But what these produce I cannot as yet inform you. 38. Tuffo, is very good for sore Eyes, boyl'd in Water, and the Eyes washt with the Decoction thereof. Mr. J. S. Flos Solis Guineensis fol. scabro, flore minore, nob. 39. Unguin, Boyl'd and drunk, is good for the Pain in the Back. Mr. J. S. I i i i i The (686) The Leaves grow alternately on Footstalks near an Inch long, they have the exact Shape and Face of the Common Bay, but neither its Smell or Taste. 40. Unnena, Boyl'd, and the Legs washt in the Water, abateth their Swelling. Mr. J. S. Lychnis Guineensis fructu Caryophylloide, foliis hirsutis Rorismarini angustioribus, nob. This Plant being altogether new, I design its Description and Figure amongst some other curious things I intend to present you withal, relating to Africa. It being my great Ambition to approve my self, as in reality I am W O R T H Y S I R, From the White Cross Your most Obliged in Aldersgate-Street London, Sept. 22. 1697. and very humble Servant, James Petiver. III. Part 