C 1lgD XI. Investigations, founded on the Theory of Molion, for deter mining the Times of Vibratiort of Ga£c<D B.vlances By George Atwood, Esq. F. A. SX Read February 27 179+. 1NSTRUMENTS for measuring time by vibratory * motion were invented earlwy in the sixteenth + century: the single pendulum t had beenknown to afford a very exact measure of £time kng before this perii yet it appears from the testimony of historical accounts, as well as other evidences, that the balance was universally adopted in the construction of the first clocks andsuatches; nor was i-t till theP year 165y that Mr. ÆIUYGEN.S united pendulums with clock-vvork The first essays of an invention, formecl on principles avt once new and complicated, we may suppose were imperfectly executed. In the svatches of the early constructions, some of The anclent$, as early as rXo years ifore CHRIST (!probably much earlIer) wew acquainted with the use of wheel-work in constructing instruments for measurxng time. Dentictali alius alium impelintesX versatioIles modicas facillllt ac motiones," i;s the expression of Vl T Ruv x-us in desclibing a machine, one of the principal uses of which was to ;dicate the hour of the day. Vibrations are no where lllentiolled or a}luded tv in the descriptions QF the clocks constructed bX the a.ncients. Dr. DERHAM on Clock^work, p. 86, mh edst. f About the year I500, according to some accounts. t TYCHO BRASE is supposed to have used the pendulum in astronomical observa? tions.. RI C C 10L US, Kl RC }{ X R s ME RSX N N US., and many others, are expressly meno tioned by S r VRrWI VS to have employed this method of mea$uriIlg time. Mr. ATWOOD'S Investzgationsfor Geterminiig12Owhich are still preserved, the balance vibrated merely vby the impulses of the wheels, without other control or regulation b the motion communicated to the balance ba one impulse continued tilI it was destroyed partlJr by friction, and partly by -a succeeding impulse in the opposite direction ; the vibrations -nust of course have been very u;nsteady and irregular. These imperfections were in a great measure remedied by Dr. HOOKE)S ingenious -invention of applying a spiral spring to the l)alance g the action of tilis springon the balance of a watch, is similar to that of gravity on a pendulum : eacll killd of force has the effect of correctilag the irregularities of impulse and resistance, wlaich otherwise disturb the isochrolaisn of tlie vibrations. During the present century, various improvements have sbeen madein the construction of watchesS principally by the artists oftlliscountry, to whoseingenuity and skill, aided alld encouraged by public rewards we must attribute the excellence of the modern watches and time-keepers, so highly valuable fbr their uses in geograpllyn navigationn and astronomy. The principles on which ti-me-keepers are constructed, considered ill a theoretical view, afford an interesting subject of investigation It is always satisfactory to compare tlle motion of machines with the general laws of mechanics, whenever friction and other irregular forces are so far diminished as to allow of a reference to theory l especially if inferences, likely tobe of practical use, may be derived iNrom sucll comparison. * Anno I6-sS.An inscription OI1 a balance-spring watch, plesented to King C H A R L ES II. fixes -the date of this invention to the year I 65 8. SDrX D B R H A M relates, that he had seen the watchs on whic-h the following inscripfion was engraved: {' RoBERT HOOKE invetl. a6&8* T. TOMPION fecit, s675.2' Dr.*:DExs^ on Clockwork, p. IO3. the Times of lzbratzoa of Walch Belances.121In tim e-keepers, the irregular forces, both of im pulse and resistance, are m uch diminished by the exactness of form and dim-ension w hich is given to each part of the work ; and they are further corrected by the m aintaining power derived fro m the m ain sprillg : for w hatever m otion is lost by thebalance fro m resistance of any kind, alm ost the sa m e m otion is co m m unicated by the m aintaining power,so asto continue the arc of vibrationa as nearly as possible, ofthe sa m e lengtl1O In these m achines,the real lueasure of tim e is the ba]ance, all the other work serving only to continue the m otion ofthe balance,and to indicate the tim e as m easured by its vibrations. T he regularity of a tim e-keeper will tllerefore depend on that ofthe tim e in w hich the balance vibrates: to investigate this tim e ofvibratioll,fro m tlae several data or conditions on w hich it depends,is the object ofthe ensuing pages. Let P M N S ( Tab X IV. fig.o.) representthe circu m ference of a watch balance, w hich vibrates by the action of a spiral * spring,on an axis passing through the centre C. Let O D B IC be the circumference of a concentric circle considered as fixeds to which the motion of the balance m-ay be referred. In the circumference of this circle let any point O be assumed, and s -hen the balance is in its quiescent position, sllppose a line to be drawn through C and 0 intersecting the circumference ofthe balancein the point A ; the radius C A will be an indexj by w hich the position of the balance, and its m otion through any difiFerent arcs of vibration will be truly defined. In the ensuing pag-es,the nnotion of the balance, and'the m otion:of the index C Sk, will be used indifFerently, asSterms collveying * In these investigations it is indiSereIlt whether the balance is sllpposed to vibrate by the action of a spiral or helical spring. MDCCXCIV. R Mr. A TWOOD'S Investigations fordetermining122the-same meaning. Since the balance is in its qlliescent posi tion whe] the index C A is directed to the fixed point 0,on this account O is caIled the point of quiescence of the balanceg or balance spring, indicating the position when the balarlce is not irrlpelled by the spring>s elastic force either in one directiOll or the other. If the balance should be turned through ally allgle O C Bn tlle spiral spring being; wound through the same angle, endeavours by its elastic force to restore itself; and whez at liberty, impels the balance tlarough the arc B O with an accelerated velolcity till it arrives at t-he position 0, where the force of acceleration ceases; with the velocity ac Vquired at 0, the balance proceeds in its vibration describing the arc O E with a retarded motion. : ; The elastic forces of t-he sprillg at equal distances on the opposite sides of tlle pOillt O,are assumed to be equalS it is i also assumed that the effiects of friction5 and other irregular resistances which retard the motion of the balance, are compensated by the maintaining power, so that the time of describing the first arc of vibration B O by an accelerated motion, shall be equal to the time of describing the latter arc 0 E by a retarded motion, and that the entire arc of vibra tion B O E is bisected by the point 'Oe XTo render the: cotastruction of -fig. o . more distinct, the fixed circle C) D B E isrepresented to be at a small distance fron . . fthe circumferece of the balance, but is to be consictered as co. incident with it, so that the arc B O subtending the angle ]3 CV Oj may be of the same leLlgth with an arc of the circumference of the balance which subterlds the same angle I3 C: O: on this principle CO or C A may be taken-indifferently a$ the radius of the balance the Times of Mibratzon of AYatch Balances.123 wThe determination of the time in which the balance vibrates, frotn the theory of motion, requires the following particulars to be known. . . lSt. The spring's elastic force, which impels the circumference of the balance when it is at a given angular distance O D (fig. .) ffom the quiescent point 0. 2d1y. The law or ratio observed in the variation of the springs force while the balanee is impelled from the extremity of thesemiarc B to the point of quiescence 0, wvhere all acceleration ceasesX gdly. The wei$ht of the balance7 incIucling the parts which vibrate with it. 4thly. The radius of the balance C 0, and the distance of the centre of gyration from the axis of motion C G. Gthly. The length of the semiarc B 0. Silppose the plane of the balance to l)e placed verticallys and let a weight P (fig. 2.) be applied by means of a line suspended freely from the circumference at T, to counterpoise the elastic force of the spring svhen the bala-nce is wound through an angle froul quiescence O C D. This weigllt P (the weight of the line being allowed for) will be the force of the spiral spring which impels the circumference of the balancey when at the angular distance OD from the quiescent position. I It appears ffom many experiments7 that the weights necessary to counterpoise a spiral springis elastlc force, svhen the balance is vvollnd to-the several distances from the quiescent point3 representedX by the arcs C)G5 OH, OI, (fig.2.) &c. are nearly in the ratio of those several arcs. It also appears, that the sI-lape, the length, and number of turns of the spiral may be so adJusted ^ B E R T H QU D Traite d es Horloges marisf s, p . ,9 . R 2 l 24, Mr. ATWO OD S Investigations for determining to each other, that the forces of elasticity sha11 be counterpoised by weights nvhich are in the precise ratio of the-angular distances from the quiescent position, or, as it is sometimes expressed, in the ratio of the spring's tensions, at least as nearly as can be ascertained by experimeat: this law of elastiG force is assumed in the subsequent investigation. The position of the centre of geration may be always determined wlien the figure of the vibrating body is regular, by calculating the sum of thevproducts which arise from multiplying each particle into the square of its distance from the axis of motion, and dividing the sum by the weight of the vibrating body the square root; of the result will be the dis}tance of the centre of gyration from the axis of motion. When the figure of the vibrating body is irregular, recourse may be had to experimental * methods, in order to determine the position of t]le centre of gyration. Let tl-le radius of the balance CA or CO = r, (fig. s.) the semiarc B O-b; let the springs elastic force, acting on the circumference of the balancen when wound to any giverl angle O C D from tlle quiescent position be P, an(I let the arc O D-a; the weight of the balance, and the parts which vibrate with it =W r the distance of the centre of gyration from the axis of motion CG -g. These notations being premisedn the resistance of inertia by xvhich the mass contained in the balance opposes the communication of motion to the clrcumference is Wr2g : and e;onsequently the force which accelerates the circumference at the angular distance O G D from the quiescent position is wgz This quantity remaining invariably the same wllile the balance describes the arc of vibration B O E, may be denoted by the letter F, so that r Treatise on the Rectilinear Motion and Rotation of Bodies, ple 2z6 and Os0 the Tzmes of tibration of Watch Balances. 1 2$ F-wrg2 ; suppose the radius CA commencing a vibration from the point B to have described the arc B H, and let O H r 'X; since the force which accelerates the circumference at the angular distance from quiescence O D is = F, and the forces of acceleration are supposed to vary in the proportion of the angular distances from the quiescent point 0, the force which accelerates the circumference of the balance at the point H will be _ FX, let u be tlle space through which a body falls freely from rest by the acceleration of gravity to acquire the velocity of the clrcumference at the point H; the principles of acceleration give this equation, e a _ FWX w * NEWTONII Princ. Vol. I. prop. xxxix. Let a body describe the line A C by the acceleration of a force varying A -E in any ratio of the distances from a centre C. Let another body describe the line E H by the acceleration of a constant or uniform force. Supposc the relocity at O to O be equal to the velocity at 1Z, and let O G and D F be D the evanescent spaces; or increments of space in which F equal velocities are generated, so that E D may represexlt a line through which a body must fall from rest by the acceleration of the constant or uniform force, to acquire the Pc velocity of the other body at 0. It is to be proved that the increment of space O G is to the increment of space D , as the force of acceleration at D to the force of acceleration at O. Let the former of these forces, i. e. at D be denoted by G, and the latter force atO by He Let E;O =, and let AQ =X. AlsoletDF =,and OG-x. -Because the incxements of velocity are always as the forces of acceleration and the elementary times in which they act jointly, it follows, that when the increments of velocity are equal, the forces are in the inverse ratio of the elementary times in which they act; that is (the velocities of describing the evanescent spaces Q (;, D F being equal by the supposition), the brces are in the inverse ratio of thos¢ spaces; and conseeluently the force at V (G) is to the force at O (EI) as O G to D F; that is, according to the precedingnotation.? G: H:: x :u or u = G . The constant force G being assurned equal to that -of gravIty, may be denoted by any constant qllantity, such as unity. iBy substittlting therefore X for G, the equation will become u _ H x. Irl thiS 126 MrX ATWOODIS Investigationsor determintng andtaking the fltlents while x decreases fiom b to X7 U = F X b-^ : if therefore I is rea-de = t93 inchesn being the space which bodies falling fi^tely from restsby the force of gravity near the eartll's surface descriXbe in one second of ti-me, tlle velocity of-the -circumferetacen sthen the extremity A of the index (: A laas arrived at tt-;e point H, w-ill be =,/2lF X^/bX-xt. .Let t represent the tirne in svhich the circutnference describes Jthe arc B H; then will t-^*/ Z IF x szbz ,.; arld t = -I F X into a circular arcs of vflilich the cosine rb to radius _ , svhich is the titne of describing the arc B H espressed in parts of a second; when x-o, that is when the circumference has described the entire semiarc B 0, the circular arc of which tlle cosine = b-is a quadrant of a circle to radius = 1 * Let p = S 141Sg, &c. The time t, of describing the semiarc B O-9/ 2 l F X 2 8/ 8 Z E ' In this expression for the time of a semivibrationn the letter a denotes the length of tlle arc OD (fig. . ) , if this arc should be expressed by a nulnber of degrees c°, a will then _ Pl8Co ; and this quantity leing substituted for a, tIze time of a semivibration will be t-/ S IPF3 r c 8 0 i if instead of F, its valut Prg2 iS substituted in tlle equation t->/ Ip3r6s8 OX tlle tilne of a semivibration will be t-#/8 p t3g Cs o Let the given arc c° be = go° ; in this case t = >/X>ft p3 gl . ex)ression the lines u and x are 5UppOStd tO incredse together; but if u increases while z decreases, the signs of the rariations X and x will be coiltrary; in whsch case the equation will become u = LIx. the lBnes of Vibratiox of Watch Balances.12-7These are expressions for the time; of-a seSmivibration, whatever may be the figure of the balance, the other conditions remaining the same as they have been above stated. If the balallce should . be a cylindrical plate, it is known that the distance of the centre of gyration from the axis is to the rad-ius as 1 to ^/2 S wherefore in this case g2 = rz s and the time of a semivibration,or tvW p3 r e V 32 P 1 e The balances of watches are usually of such a form as to place the centre of gy ration nearly at the same distatlce from the axis, as if the figures were cylindrical plates of uniform thickness and density. If it should be required to obtain from Etheory the time of a lJalance's vibration precisely exact, it would be necessary to calculate rigidly the position Of the centre of gyration from the dimensions of each part of the balance, and whatever vibrates with it. But in cases merely illustrative of the general theorems for ascertaining the times of vibration, it is unnecessary to enter into prolix alld troublesome calculatio}ls depetlding on the form of any particiilarbalance; since by assuming it as a cyltndrical pIate, the time of a vibration will not differ materially from that which would be the result-of the correct investigation. Being desirous of comparing the time of vibration, as deduced from the theory of motion, with the actual vibration Olc a watch balance, I requested Mr. E A R NS H A W (the excellent perfiormance of whose time-keepels is well known) to make the Cexpeiiments from which the necessary data for this calculation are deriered. These experiments^ were made orl the balance of a watch cotlstructed by Mr. RENDAL, on Mr. HARRISONSS principles, and is the instruinent which Captain COOK took out with him during his * last voyage to the South ,Seas. The results are undertleath: lliameter of t-he balance _ Z4 iIlches. .:Weight of the balarlce, and parts wKhich vibrate with it: . +2 grains. Weight applied to the circumfererlce of.the balancev which courlterpoises the force of the spiral spring when the balance is wound through arl angle of X 80°: +8 grains. The weight which counterpoises the sprirlg's force when the balance is wound to go degrees from quiescence ss 24 grains. These determinatiorls give the following substitutions in the expression b1 the time of a semis-ibration t = / W p r, Mr. ATWOODIS Investigations for determining8It is observable that the semiarc of vibration B O = b, does rzot enter into these expressiorls for the time of a semivibration, if therefore instead of the semiarc B 0, an arc of any other length LO, terminating in the point of quiescence 0, (fig. 1.) should be substituted in the preceding investigation, the time of descriling L O would be still = /ig or s/ p3 r c° 81F SlEx eEqual to the time of describing the other semiarc B O; consequently, whether the balance vibrates in the largest or smallest arcs, the times of vibration mrill be the sarne. From the precee:ling investigations it appears, that when the force by which the circumference of the balance is accelerated at the gisterl angular distance c° from the quiescent position is _ 1S, the time of a semivibration t = / p3 r c° 8 l F x I 80° and conrrersely, when the time of a semivibration is = t, the force which accelerates the circumference at the given angular distance c° from the quiescent position, that is F= 8 IPt2 X ,8 o Since watches and time-keepers are usually adjusted to Namely, W = 42 gr. = the weight of the balance, including the parts ^:vhich vibrato with it. P-24 gr. = the fiorce at the circumfierence of the balance, which counterpoises the force of the spring when wound to the distarlce go°. r = x.125 inch. and parts-the radius of the balance. 1= 19& inches = tho space described in ong second of time by bodies which descend freely from rest by the acceleration of gralrity. p = 3.14159 &c. = the circumEerence of a circle of which thediameter = x; J 3 pts. of a sece3nd. the time of a semivibration t = / 42 x 3Xt4159 x 1*t25 = O,ogg4 The balance, whell adjusted to mean time, makes 5 vibrations in a second; the actual time of a semivibration-is therefore O.IOOO Difference between the actual time and the time by the calculation o.ooo6 the Xges of Vibration of ZYatch Batances. ea9 tean time when the:balan-ce makes S vibrations in a seconds the time of a semivibration will in this case-Ito part of a se mnd: the substitution of ItC) for t being tnade irl the preced. . ing equation, the force which accelerates the circumference of the balance, when at any given angular distance s° from the quiescent position, will be determined for all time-keepers ad justed to mean-time, in which the ltalances make S vibrations in a second. Suppose the given angle c°_ go° v then -making c°= go°, p _ .14o59 &c. I= 19g, t-ItO, the accelerative force at the angular distance from quiescence go° or F = 8 ttZoX918oO=rX 1.o-o40-8926s We have therefore arrived at the following conclusion : if the radius of the balance isequal to z inch, arld the time-keeper is adjusted to mean time vvhen the balallce maltes vibrations in a second, tlae force which accelerates the circumference of the balance at the distance of go° from the quiescent position, is = i.ooi,ot3ge6, tlle accelerative force of gravity being s. And if the radius of the balance is greater or less than X illch,the force by which the ni-rcuinference isaccelerated at the distance of go° frorn quiescence, will be greater or less than r.ooo8g26 in proportiorz to the radiiW According to tXh-e principles assumed in the preceding so:Iution3 the spring's elastic force is supposed to vary in the proportion of the angular distances from tlle quiescellt position, arld on this condition, the vibratlons are shewn to be isochronous, whether tlley are performed in longer or shorter arcss but if the spring'-s-elastic force at diSerent distances from quiesceJace should not be precisely in the ratio here as=sutned? the lorlger and shorter arcs may be described in times diSering in any proportions of inequ-ality. If, for instance, the spring's MDCCXCIVw S Mr. ATWOOD'S Investigatzonsfor determintng13oforce, instead of varying in the ratio of tlle aforesaid distances, should vary in the I909Q90 power, or I ooo power of the clistances, it does not appear from the preceding solutioll what alteration inthe dailyratewould be caused bythis change in the law of the force's variation when the semiarc of vibration is irlcreased or diminished by a given arc. T-o ascertain this point fu.lly, other researchesXvlll benecessaryy by whicll it may be-known, what alteration of the daily rate of a time-keeper is occasioned by a given irlerease or diminution of the arc of vibration, when the springvs elastic force varies in a ratio of tlle distances fFom the qaiiesce<t position, the general index or exponent of which -is any nalmber or fraction n. Tlle force which accelerates the balance being assumed in that power of the distances the: exponent of which is n let B o = b: (fig. 3.) be the semiare of vlbration whell -the tilnekeeper is adjusted to Jnea-n time , let D O-a , the acceleratlng force on the circumference at the distance from quiescence 0 D --F; suppose the circumference ta have described the arc B H from the extremlty of the arc B S arld let H O = x : then the force by which the circumference is accelerated when at the angular distance from the quiescent position FZn O H--an n let u be the space through wh-ich a body falls freely from rest by tlle acceleration of gralrity, to acquire the relocity of the circumference when it has (Iescril3ecI the arc B H ; the principles of acceleration give this equatiotl: U = F X X taking the fluents while x decreases frolll b to x, u++ 1 x + > and I being lg3 inches, the velocity acquired by the circumference after describing B H, will be . Xhe Tirnes of Eibration of AYatcZJ Balalice3.151s/ F x v b8+ 1 _ Xn + X nf l xan 1et T be the time of describing th-e -arc B H ; wh-erefore T=,/nt&X4nx -x 4o 1 f /bn + X Xn + 1 ' The titne of describing the arc B H will be tlle fluent of this fluxion, while x decreases from b to xX and the time of describing the semiarc B O will be the entire fluent of * X . / wf-z-li xan X o/-bi+s_ n-l_l while x decreases from b to o. Now let the balance commence its vibration from any other point I) (fig. g.) ;and Iet IO _ c; suppose the circumference to have described the arc I K, and make O K =y ; let t be the time of describing the arc I K ; then by proceeding in the same manner as in the former case, it is found that t = ,/ " + I x at _ ;, X s/M_i_I _yn+I i and the time of describing the semiarc I O will be the entire fluent of tlais fluxion, while y decreases from . _ * c to o. Although the fluets of the fluxions /,>1 ffi l _xn+l and _ s /cn4-s oyh_l cannot be expressed in general terms, yet the exact proportion of the said fluents may be assigned, which will be the proportion of the times in which the balance vibrates in the two semiarcs B O, I O r the multiplying quarltity v _ > / n + z F an being common to both fluxions; and since the entire fluent Mk of vbn+ X _ w+^ is to the entire fluent of x f x ^/,bn + 1_ Xn + X = F sX I , TA "D i M?f; ATWOOD'S IvtBtigttonsfor determinzng2_y 1-n X-n ^c^;+X_y" l as b ^ is to c ; , it follows, that the time of-a semivibration in the arc B O is to the time of a semivibration l-n l-n . S0 t 28 2 s 1 . . . n tne are <, as o X to c ^ , or as -: toi --B--O z Suppose a watch to be adjusted to mean time when the semiare of the balallce's vibration is = B O (fig. 3. ) and let this semiarc be afterwards diminished to I O; the titne shewn by the watch in any given portion of mean tim-e t, when the semiarc of vibration is t O, will be-t X IBo | 2 ; and if t is put-24hy the alteration of the daily ratev in consequence of thedimi g I Y enJ w _ Z vc < Ca+ s _yn + C / 1 _ M n + L X T0 find the prc)portion of the entire fluent of ^/1 _ x I "-+ 1 ! to the eontire fluent of ^/ I _ ;l n J; makex=bY,sothatwhen==o} y-o} andwhenx=b, y_c; * * then ^ x t nAl c V/ly | + * . x Y and the proportion of ^ -^ n + 1 to ^/--l n + 1 will be equal to that of b to 1, or of b to c; this being the constant proportion of the fluxions when Z _ by; the fluents will be in the sanze proportionv provided w; vfherefore the entire fluent 3¢ j b P _ __ * 4 . T vbn +1 * xn + x ti1 Ze to the entir fluent of vcn + X n + I as bX + ' to c 1-" t _ X " + 1 ; or as to ¢ the Times of Vibration of Watch Balances. nution of the semiarc of vibratiqn from B O to I 0, will be _ .. 4 I O 2 -]. To apply this proposition, let a case be assumed X suppose a watch to be regulated to mearl time when the semiarc of vibration is 35°, and let this sem-iarc be diminished 80? so as to become 27°, let the ratio of the spring's elastic * From this general expression it appYrs, that when n = x, that is when the spring?s elastic force varies irl the precise ratio of the angular distances of the balance from the quiescent position} t}e alteration of the daily rate in consequence of a dimi1. X nution of the arc of vibration is =.o; because in that case BI O | 5t = 1, and 1 n X 2 _ I = O, When X is less than 1, or when the force varies in a tess ratio than that of the distances from quiescence, the rate will lte accelerated, because in that 1-n z-?a case IO | a will be greater than }; and I=O t 2 -1, will be apositive quantity: but when n is greater than , or when the force varies in a ratio greater than that of * . t_g thedistancesfrom quiescence, the rate will be retarded, because inthat case BI o | 2 _ . 1'X . ) r wil} be less than t., and _ 1 0 2 _ I becomes negative. The conlrerstof these propositions is likewise derived from the general theorem. Whenever therefiore it is folmd, by observing the rate of a time-keeperS that a dimnation of the arc of the balance?s vibration causes an acceleratioIl of the daily rate, itis necessary to conclude, that the elastic force of the spring in this case varies in a ratio less than that of the distances from the quiescent position. ln like manner, 7hen a diminution of the arc of vibration causes a retardation of the rate, it is certain that the spring's elastic force varies in a higher ratio than that of the distances from quiescence. It appears, ind:eed, from some experiments, that the vseights which counterpoise a spiral spring's elastic force, when wollnd to different distances from the quiescent position9 are in the ratio of those distances; but it is shewn from this proposition, and the arlnexed table, that the diSerences hetween the weights, by which the ratio of the dis tances3 and a ratio a little less is in(licateds although far too small to be discoverable by experiment, are yet sufficient to create a material alteration of the daily rate. 134 Mr. AT\MOOD'S Inves!;igationsfor determining force deviate fro-m that of the distarlces from the quiescent position by a small difference of I otoO part, so that the springXs force shall be in the I909090 power of the distances, instead of i-n the erlStire ratio of the said distances from the quiescent posltion. The alteration in the daily rate of the watch will be obtained frorn the preceding theorem -by making the following substitutiolls. B O = so, I O = 127°, n-19O9O9O : the alteratioll of the dailtr rate = 24h X 13S |Z-O-'OO _ 1 + 2".62. It here appears, that a very minute alteration in the law of the force's variation, amounting to no more than I OtOO part of the entire ratio of the distances, causes an acceleration in the daily rate of more than 22't, when the diminution of the semiarc of vibration is 8°. It may therefore be of some use to inquire, what are the diSerences of the weigllts to be observed in experiments from which the law of the spring's elas-tic force is derived, first, supposing that law to be the precise ratio of the distances from the quiescent position; and secondly, supposing the lastr of the force to deviate from that ratio by a small diffierence °f Xotoo so as to become the I909090 power of the distances from the quiescent position, from the result a judgment may be form-ed how far experiments may be relied on for ascertaining the precise law according to > which the elastic force of a spring varies. jthe Tianes of Vibration of 7Yatch Balances.lQSValues of o x. Angular dsstances from the quiescent position when the spring's elastic force is counterpoised by the weights in the second and third columns ( Fig. z ) .Values of Xo p=9Xgr.x 9oo Weights P, expressed in. grains, which counterpoise the spring's elastic iroX ce when wound to the several. distances from the quiescent position in the first column if the frorce varies in the precise ratio of the angular distances from the quiescent point.Values of 999. p _ ggr. x 9OO .0Qw Weights P, expressed in grains, which counterpoise the -spring's elastic force. when wound to the seareral dlstances from quiescence in the frrst column, if the brce varies in the9X59090 power of the distances from the quiescent poitlt.*+ Grains. Grains. l ot 1 z .oox 199< 2Q 2 2g00rg010$o° S S 3.ooS2gg 4<)° 4 4.oog2445 500 , ,.oo2g4o 60 6 z 6.oo2433: 70o 7 7o°°17S9 80° 8 S.ooog42 go° 9 g.oooooo The diffierences of xveights expressed in the second and third columns of this table are evidently too small to admit of being observed experitnentally, and yet their effiect on the daily rate of a time D keeper amounts to a quantity far from insensible. This effiect on the rate might probably be augrnented to twenty or thirty seconds daily, and yet thecorresponding differences of vsreightsarising from the deviation of the spring's force from the law of isochronism might be-too minute to become sensible by any statical counterpoise of the spring's forcesS and it would # It may be here observedX that the difl5erences of the weights in the second and third columns of the table, frst increas-e and afterwards decrease; their difference-¢s * y g99 the greatest when vhe quantity g x x 11°°° 9 x is a snaximum; or whea XooO 9° I go X = 9°° X m , that is when x = 33 58 33"* Z. ATWOOD'S Investigationsfor dete7rmining,36be still less possible > measure the said differences of weights with the exactness required for the determ-ination of the law obsersted by the spring's -forces. Experiments of this kind should not tlzerefore be absolutely relied on for ascertaining practically the isochronal property of spiral springs, although this property must be allowed:to exist in theory, whenever the forces of elasticity at the several angular distances from the qu-iescent position are in the precise ratio of those distances. The isochronal law of variation, here mentionedn may be conveniently assumed in theoretical investigationsn and proper corrections or equations? when necessary, m-ay be applied to compensate for the deviation from tllis law, wilich may subsist in ally particular spiral spring) svllenever it can be satisfactorily ascer tained, or reduced svitllill knovvll limitsn by suck mode of inference as the nature of the case lllay adlnit of. This assumption will appear the less excelptionable froln considering, that the elastic forces of spiral springs whic31 are not isochronal deviate from the law of variation in question in so-nze cases by exceeding, and in others, by falling short of it; and no other law is -suggested either by theory or experimerlt, which more generally corresponds with the action of balance springs. T-he vibration of a balance impelled by a single spiraI spring only, has been tlae subject of the preceding investigations; but cases occur in which two or more springs are employed in giving vibr-atory motion to the balances of watches. Not tomention precedirag irsstances, Mr. MUD:GE, an eminent watch-maker of the present times, has illvented a method of combining the action of spiral springs, to impel the balance in each semiarc of vibration, on a principle not more remarkable for the novelty than it is for the ingenuity; of the colatrivance. The consideration of this additiorlal case will therefore not Sbe he Times of Zibration of Watch Balactces.thought foreign to the present subject, especially as it may contribute to elucidate some circumstances respecting the effect of springs on the vilvrations of balances, which at tlle first view are not at a11 obvious. Let two spiral springs be applied to act orl a watch balance in the same clirection; if the two springs in unwtilldiiig thernselves, by turning the balance come to the same point of quescence, or, in other words if the accelerative forces of both springs cease at the middle point of the vibration, whatever be the relative strength of the two springs, they will act on tlle balance precisely in the same marlller as if one spring only had been applied, of equal strength with both (the springs being here supposed silnilar, in respect af the law of the elastic forces and tensions). But when the points of quiescellce of the two springs-do not coincide, that isf when one spring continues to accelerate the balance in its vibration, after the acceleration of the other spring has ceased, the tinae of a seInivibration must be obtained from a separate investigation. Let the circumference of a balance (fig. +.) be impelled lvy the action of a spiral spring through the semiarc of vibration B 0, the forces of this spring being always in propDortion to tlae angular distances from t;he point of quiescence 0; let a secondary or avlxIliary spring also act OI1 the balance from the extremity of the semiarc B as far as the point Q, at which point all acceleration of the auxiliary spring ceases, the forces of-the auxiliary spring varying as the angular distances from the point of quiescence Q. Suppose that tlle accelerative force of the prirlcipal or balance spring ola the circumference of the balance at the distance from quiesceIlce O D is f, take Q d O D, and let the accelerative force of the balance spring on the circumference of the balance be to that of the auxiliary sprirlgn when both springs are woxtlld to MDCCXClYz T Mr. ATWOOD}S Investi$ations J7or detertnining8the same angle O C D =Q C d, in the proportiorl of t to n >tllen the accelerative force of the auxiliary spring at the angular distance from quiescence Q d nrill = nf; let B O = bs BQ_c,QO=d=b-c; alsoiletODorQd-v. Suppose the balance to have described the arc B H {by the; oint action of both the springs, and: let the arc B H be represented by z. Then, becalkse the accelerative force of the principal or balance spring at the angular distance from quiescence O D _ a isf, the accelerative force of the same spring at the . . distance Q lI is = l x b X; and since the force of the auxiliary spring at the anguIar diSstance from quiescersce Q d g a is nf, the acceleratIve forceof tllis sprillg at the angular distance from quiescence Q H will be = nf xac x wherefore the joint force of both springsto accelerate tlle circumference when at the distance O fI from the pOillt of qui-escence O, that is, when the balance hasX described the arc B X, mzill be = z x b-Z + c n-n w. Letu be the space through which a body falls freely from rest by the acceleration of gravityn to acquire the velocity of the circumference when it has described the arc B H ; this will give the following equation: U = Ja x bnc x nc + cn nc-nxnc; and 2 = af x 2 bx-XZ+ 2CS z-nx3; and if l-lgs inches, the velocity of the circumference-when the arc BH has been described, i!s = s/ 2alf x ^/ s b x-z3 + 2 c n x-n g Let t represent the time in which the balance describes the ars BH; then t = s/a x x and the fluent 21f czbw-x2 + 2cnxnxt ., or t-/lf za X into a circular arc of which the sine xs the i Times of Vibration of Watch BalancesX/ z x R + l to radius-o; which is the time of describing z b + 2 n c the arc B H. When *-c, the time: of describing the aro B Q, is < a X into a circular arc of which the sinen + X 2 b + 2 n c SThe time of describing the remaining part of the semiarc Q 0, (fig. 4.3 is next to be determined. In the cases to which this investigation is applied, the auxiliary sprirlg -ceases entirely to act on the balance after it has described the arc B Qe This being stated, while the balance describes the remaining arc of the semivibratiorl Q 0, it will be impelled by the balance spring only. To ascertain the time of describing the arc QO, it is first to be observed, that whell the circumference has described the arc B Q, it will have acquired a velocity equal to that of a body which has fallen from rest by the acceleration of gravity through a spaceX = 2J x 2 bc-Cz + n G Suppose the balance to have proceeded through tlle arc Q R, (fig. 4.) and let O R x; the force by which the circumference is accelerated a$ R-fa ; and if u is the space through which a body falls freely from rest by the acceleration of gravity to acquire the velocity of the-circumference in the point R, u=-fxx; taking the fluents so that a may become = 2f X 2 b c-cz + n cz when x = d, u = 2fa x 2 b c-cz + n Gz Jr d;-x; or because d3= bz-2 bc + c5; u= fa xb+9l6t * When r:he circumference has described the arc B H = , it will have acquired a velocity equal to that of a body which has fallen freely from rest by the acceleration of gravity through a space = f x 2 b X-Xz + 2 C n x-XtX3v as appears from the ino, vestigation in page 1 38; and when x = c, this space becomes-z X t} s-63 + ac2n-zlC^= f x 2bc_c3+nc5. za T 2 14Q Mr. ATWOOD'S Investigations for determinztng . ; arld the velocity of the circumference at R (fig. 4.)4 x Vbz + n cZ _ x3: let t be the time of describing ] . , QR; then t-4 lf X bz -tn cz _xzs and t-*/ 2 If X into a circlllar arc of which the cosine is Z to radius = 1, 4*/b2 2,-n C2 svhich should-o when x-. d7 wherefore tor the time of describillg QR-4 lf x into a circular arc of which the . . cosine is Z / a X into a circular arc of which tlle ^/b^+nc 21f cosine is d j and when x = o, that is when the entire ^/b2 + n cz arc Q O has been described, the time t-V/lf X into a circular arc of which the sine is d .v/bt + n C2 -The result of this investigation is) that the time in which the balance describes the semiarc B 0, by the joint aotion of both springs through the arc B Q, and by the action of the balance spring only through the arc Q 0, iS _ / 2 a X an arc, of which the sine is n + 1> If xn+x 2.bi2ns + 8/ 2 If X an are, of which the sine is b' + n c; (to rad-X-us 3 ) expressed in parts of a second.* * When n = o., this expression becomes 2 a X twice an aFc,ofwhichthesine iS / Cb + an aErc, of which the sine is b : but sixlce c b _ d, the two arcs here mentioned willbe exactly=go°-.s; andthetimeofasemivibration=/ 2gf X p = -^/ a8pf v agreeing witll the solutioIl in page 1 26¢ Suppose d-o; since m this case b-c, the time of a semivibration becomes ,/ 2 a X an arC} of svhich the If X n +s sine is 2 b which arc is = q.5°, or P; wherefiore the time of a semivibration an this ca$e = X/ P _, svhich is. the true salue. according to thesolution in page g If X n 2r X az6. See also page 146e the Dmes of Nbration of Watch Balagres141This solution is confined to that case in which the point of qllicerlce Q (fig. ,. ) of the auxiliary spring is situated in the first semiarc of the vibration that is, between B and 0. Another case still remains to be consideredf which isvwhen the point of quiescence Q of the auxiliary spring deviates from O by the given angular distance O Q, but is situated in the latter semi-arc of the vibration (fig. 5.)between O and E, instead of between Q a;nd EC as irs the former solutionz According to tl:lis condition, making B Q = c, B O b3 and the other notation remaining as beforej it appears from-an investigation no ways differing fiome tlle precedingn that the time in which the ba Iance describes the semiarc B 0 will be t ,/ 2 a x into a clrcular arcs of which the sine 1s Ix,+ 1. $ b X n + I expressed in parts ofta second. 2 b + z.n C This result expresses the time ila nvhich the baIancede scribes the serniarc B O, (fig. . ) by the accelerative force of tswo sprin$s, narnely, the balance spring, of which the point of quiescence is O, ando an auxilialy spring of which the point of quiescence is Q. On considering this case more fully, xvhen applied to the actual vibrations of a balancea it will appear evident, that the action of a third spring on the balance . . nvhile it is describing the setniarc BOn must be taken into the calculation, in addition to the two springs already mentioned, in order to olbfaila a solutiorz entirely correspondent with the clrcumstances of the case, when the p3ints of quiescence of the auxiliary springs are situated in the latter semiarcs of the vi brations. ToJstate this more clearly, it is to ke observed, that when the--points of quiescence of the balance and ausiliary springs Mr. ATWOODSS Ingationsfor determtntng142-are coincident; the auxiliary spr;ing commencing its action from the-extremity B of the arc BO, (fig. 6.) continues to accelerate the balance till it arrives at the quiescent position O at which point the action of the auxiliary spring entirely ceases; on this account it is plain that another auxilliary sprlng, equal arld similar to the former, having also the point of quiescence coincident with O must be applied to act by retardation on the balance while it describes the arc O E} in order that the times of describing the arcs BO and OE, as well as these arcs themselves, may be equal. According,, therefore, to this disposition of the auxiliary springs, the balance will describe each semiarc of its vibrations precisely in the same luanner as if it was impelled by one spiral spring only, -the strength of which is equal to that of the balance and either auxiliary spring, when wound to the same tension. Suppose the balance to vibrate from B to E, and, for the sake of distinction, let the auxiliary spring which accelerates the balance from the extremity of the arc B, in the direction B (:) be called u ; and let the otller auxiliary * spring which retards the balance in the semiarc OE be denoted by v ? consequently, when the balance vibrates in the contrary direction from E to B, the auxiliary spring v will accelerate the balance from E to O, and the other auxiliary spring u will retard it from O to B. In respect, tllerefore, to the spring , B O is the first semiarc and O E is the latter semiarc of vibration; and on a similar principle in respect to the spring , EO is the first semiarc, and OB is the latter semiarc of vibration. * The circular arcs which are drawn xnterior to the circumference of the balance xr the figures 4, , and 6, are intertded to represent those portions of the balance's vibra tion in which the auxil;ary $prings respectlvely act. tZie Tzmes of Vibration of Watch Balances.143In the preceding pages, the titne has been inlrestigated in whichabalancevibrates in the semiarc B-O, (fig.4.) when t}le point of quiescence Q? of the auxiliary spring u, is situated between B and 0, that is in the first semiarc of vibration. In this case, irl order that the tIme of describing the latter semiarc O E, by retardation, may be equal to that of describing the first semiarc B O by accelerated motionn the quiescent pointof the au-xiliary spring v must 1)e placed at N, between O and E,; so that ED N may be equal to B Q a accordng to this disposition Qf the auxiliary springs, the point zof quiescence Q of the auxiliary spring u will be situated in t-he first semiarc of vibration, considering the balance as vibrating fr;om B to ED; and the poixlt of the quiescence-N of thebauxiliary spring , will be in the first semiarc of ribration, considerings the balance as lribrating from E to B. TheX thrd case which remainsto be more fully investigated xs, when thefl points of qu-iescence of the auxiliary springs are situated in tl;ie latter semaarcs of the respectivexribrations v t}iat is, when the quiescent poirlt Q of the auxiliary spring u is situated in the latter arc O iE, (fig. ) while the balance vibrates from Bto , and the point of quiescence N of the au-xiliary spring v is situated in the latter arc; O B, while the balance vibratesfrom E to B. In t}:iis case it is evident, that while the balance vibrates from B to 0, it describes the arc B N by the ac£eleration of two springs; namely, the balance spring, of zwhich thez point of quiescence is 0, and the auxiliary spring u, of which the point of quiescence is Q. And the balance;descrlbes the arc N O by the combined action of three springs; namely, by thatof the balarlce spring, of which the point of quiescence is 0, that of the-auxiliary spring vy of I4+ Mr. ATWOOD)S Investigations for dReterminirlgwhich the point of quiescence ish Q, both of which accelerate the balance, and that of the avlxiliary spring v, of which the point of quiescence is Nv acting by retarding the balance. The time irl which the balance describes the semiarc B 0, by the combined action of these three springs, will be obtained by the following invesfrgation. Resuming the former notation, let DO (fig. S )-a-Qd _ Ne, BO = b, BQ = c, OQ ON _ d = c-b. The accelerative force of the balance spring on the circumference of the balance at the tension O D =c; the accelerative forceof the auxillary springs at the same tension Q d or N e = nf. From page 138 and 1 g9 it appears that the time ill wllich the balance describes the arc B N by the joint action of the balance spring and auxiliary spring u = s/ If 2 a _ x a circular arc of which J the sine = a/b-bd+ 2n + I ; and tlle velocity acquired by the circllmference at N is equal to that of a body whicll has fallen freely from rest by the acceleration of gravity through a space X -2faxbz-d+nbt-gnd$+ 2nbd. To find the time of describing the arc N OS suppose the balance to have proceeded in its vibration from N to R, (fig. 5. ) and make N R _ x. * In the invesfigation, page I 38 it iS shewn, that when the balance has described the arc B H = , the space through which a body must fall freely from rest to acquire the velocity of the circumference at the point H. or U = 2fa X 2 b x-wt + 2 c n x-n x^,+ the expression being the sanle, whether the point Q_is on one side of O or on the other, provided BQ-c. In the present case) c = b + d.sand whell the circumference has described the arc B N, x = b _ d; wherefore ;f b + d is substituted for ¢, and * ; O; b-d for x irl the equatlon, u = ' x Z b Z-x; + z c X x _ n w the resuIt will btu= f Xb_ d+nb-_ 3nd%+ znbd. the -Times of Vibration of PEatsb Balances.The accelerative force of the balance sprirlg on the cir cumference of tlle balance at the point R is + ,f x d-x The accelerative force of the auxiliary sprirlg , at the tension or distance frozn quiescence . . . Q al = a being nf, the force of the same spring at the tension or distance QR-2 d-x, is +-xxd --t The force of the auxiliary spring zn, at the tension lS-i e-a being n t at the tension J R the force of this spring acting by retardation will be _ nf m Sum of the forces acting on the circumference of the balance, wher; it has described the * r arc NR= Ja xd-x+2dn-2nx. Let u be the space through which a body falls freely from rest by the acceleration of gravity to acquire the velocity of t}le circumference at R, the principles of acceleration give this equati-on, us x dxx+ 2 dx-gn xnc; and tak ing the fltlents so that when x _ o, u may be-izf x . . . b . . bt-d+nbt-Snd3+ gnbd; u=2fa x bz-d7iJrnbz,nd3+ 2nbd +2d + 4ndxx-1 + 2nXxt; if t isput to represent the time of describing the arc N R, t = / 2 1 )1: , and /btd2 +^lbz -3nd , sabd Jr 2d + 4nd x x-I + 28 X Xz taklng the fluents so that when x = o, t = o, and making x-d i the time of describing the arc NO-s/ 4 x a circular 21,> 1+2t1 * ) arc of which the sine = s/ b; -Jr n X b+d^_2ndz > or MDCCXCIVx U Mr. ATWOOD'S Investigations for &terminlng146b f cS = c, t = >/ a x a circular arc of ^rhich the 2 1.f X 1 + 2 n sine-i/b; J, n C;-2 n d? \ The result is, that when the points of quiescence of the auxiliary springs are situated in the la -er semiarcs of the respective vibrations3 tlae time in which the balance describes the semiare B O will be _ s/ 2 a x a circular arc of whicl If s z ir 1 the sine is ,/^a x X + X + >/ a x a circular arc 2bi2nC 21f X l +2n of which the sine is vbX + tXcX-2 tt dz' The balance of Mr. MUDGE}S time-keeper describes the semiarc B 0, by the joint action of two springs, i. e. the balancee spring, and an auxiliary spring; each spring is wound thro-llgh the same arc B 0, and comes to the same point of quiescence O (fig. 6.) ; consee3uently the action of the two springs is the same with that of a single spring of equal strerlgth with botll. In this case, the time of a semivibration through the arc B 0> will be obtained froln a former solution, for referring to page 12-6, and making O D-a, and the force o f the balance spring and auxiliary spring at the-distance from; quiescence O D, f + nf-F ; the time of a semirribration is / a p2 _ 8 Zf X n + I FX But if the points of quiescence of the balance and auxiliary . springs in-stead of coincidirlgg according to the principle of Mr. MUDGE2S constructioll, should deviate from this adjustment by a small arc O Q =ON (lEg. 4 and S ) ; to what extent the * A double spiral spring is applied in the balance of Mr. MUDGE'S timewkeeperX but as these two springs act as one spring, they are here considercd as sucho tbe Times of Vibration of Watcb Balaces.-147daily rate of the time-keeper may be aSected by this alteration ill the position of the quiescent points, remazins-unknown, unl-ess it be investigated by assuming the deviation of the points of quiescence as olle of the conditions on which the titne of vibration clepends. This condition is included in the preceding investigations, which may be now applied to the solutioll of some cases, wllich are suggested by corlsidering the construc-tlon of Mr. MUDGE'S time-keeper. Anyminute or particular description of this ingenious irvention would be foreign to the subject of theoretic investigation ; an outline only of the construction on which the action of the several springs depends will be necessary to rellder the application of the preceding theorems suffici@ntly -intelligibleb ON E B Q (Tab. XV. fig. 8. ) is tlle circumference of the balance, vibratirlg by the action of a spiral spring on an axis C A -D Hs passing through tlae centre C , the axis is discontinued from A to D to make room for tlle other parts of the work. C A and D H are connected by means of a branch or crank A X Y D which is fixed to tlle axis C A D H, and alwaysivibrates with the balallce on the said axis. L M? Z W, are two rods affixed to the crank at the points L and Z parall-el to X Y X which rods also vibrate with the balance. C7 d, e, f, g; r , are fix;ed parts of the machine. T R is an axis in the same right line with C A D H carrying an arm G GX at right angles to itt (or nearly so), and a srnall auxiliary spring , hich is wound llp whenever the arm G O Is turned round # The additional w&ight affixed to the balance at s counterpoises the weight of the cr-ank or branch A X Y D, so as to bring the centre of grarity of thetwllole into the vis of motion. t In the machine G O and I O tre n0-t exactly at right angles to T R and F S; but are so represented in the figur, in order to make the di5erent positiolas of the arms G O and I 0 the more d;stinct. U 2 Mr. ATWOODVS Investzgationsfor determginling148the axis rr R in the direction of tlae are O ZJ ; p iS a curved pallet -fixed to the axis 1t R, wlaich receives the tooth of thebalance wheel near the axis) tl:le tooth proceeding along the cvzrved surface\ by the force of the main spring, turns the asisN and tlae anulexed arm G O in the direction of tlle arc O h, alldat the same ti1ne winds up the auxiliary spring u. A stnall projection at t11e extremity of tlle curved surface of the pallet p prevents further progress of tle tootla, wllen the arm O G has been turned througll an arc O he of about 27° , consequently the spring u has tllen been wotlnd through the same arc or angle O G /-27°. F S is anotllera axis in the same right line with C A D H, exactly similar to that whicll has beerl described. This asis F S carries vith it the arm I O; the auxiliary sprirlg tv is annesed to tllis axis, and is wound up when the axis is turned in the directiotl of the arc. Ok. q is a pallet similblr to the forrner pallet p, and is placecl so as to receive the tooth of the balance svheel, whicla by its action on the pallet winds up the spring z>> and carries the arr] (3 1[ through all angle O I k, = e7o, further notion being prevented by a sulall projection at the extremity of the pallet qv sizarilar to that wllich has been already lnentioned. I zn represents t;he balance wheel, tiie upper tooth of which aefs on the pallet p, and the lower tooth on the pallet qg alternately winding up the ausiliary springs u and v, itl the nzanner descrited in tile subsequent page: the axis of the balance wheel n o is parallel to tlle line (: O or G 0. The several arcs expressed on the circuluference of tlle ba lancef z. e. O Q, O h O AJ, O k, are equal to the respective arcs denoted by the salne letters in tlze circumSererlce of the circles described by the extremities of the arlns G O arld I Oe+ Fide in,fra the note in page I St the Tzzes of Mibration f Watch BGlanc@s.Suppose that when tlle balan¢e is quieseentf the main spri-ng being unwound, tlle braxlch or crank A X Y D is in the position represented in Eg. 8 A X being learallel to C: O; xf the quiescent points of the auxiliary springs coitlcide vith tllat of the balance spring the artn G O will just touch the rod L M; and in like lnanner the arm I O xvill just rzouch the rod W i;; the two artns G O and I O, in this position, are parallel to the line CO. This position of the balance and auxiliary springs remains as long as tlle mainfspring of the nnachine continues unwound ; but whenever the action of the main spring sets the balalaoe wheel in mot-ion, a tooth thereof meeting with one or other of tlle palletsp or qn svill vind up one of the auxiliary sprirlgs; suppose it should be the auxiliary spring v the arm G O being carried into tlle losition G h, by the force of the balalace svlieel acting on the pallet5? remains in that position as lorlg as the tootll of the bala<ce wheel continues locked by the proJection at the extrenity of the pallet p: and the balanGe itself not being at a11 aSected by tlle motion of tlle arnl G OS nor by the vinding up of the spritzg u, remains in its quiescent position X consequently no vibratioll can take place except by the assistance of some external force to set the machille in motiOla. Stlpposean impulse to be given to t-he balance sufficient to carry it through the semiarc O B, svhich is aboutX 3S°, according to lWr. MUDGERS CO11StrUCtiOn. The balance durirlg this motion carries with it the crank A X Y Dn atld tlae affixed rods L 3+/i7 % \v. wthen the balance has described an angle of about $ 27°-to the angle O C h or OGbf the rod L A meets wtith l;he artn Gh, and by turrling the axis T R, and the pallet p, in the direction of the . arc O h) releases the tooth of the balanc.e wheel froln Xthe pro* Yide iNfra the slote irl page 5O4 3ffi7:. ATW-OOD)S liZUeshgAtZQ"sfOr detergntningojection at the extremity of the palIet p; the balance wheel imF mediately revolves, and thEe lower tooth meeting vvlth the pallet q winds up -the auxiliary spring v and carries the arm I O witll a circular tnotion through the angle O I k about 27°; in whicll position the arm I O remains as long as the tootl of the balance wheel is locked by the pallet q While the spring v is winding up through the arc O k, the balance describes the remaining part of the semiarc h Bf and during this motion the rod L M carries round the arm G h, causing it to describe an angle b C B or h G B$ which is measured by theK ars h B _ +1O8°: whell the balance has arrived at the extremity of the semiarc O B _ 13g, the auxiliary spring u lvi have been wound up through the same angle = 135°, i. e. e7° by the force of the main spring acting o1l the pallet p, and 1oS by the balance it$elf carryillg along with it the arm G O or G h while lt describes the arc h--B The balance therefore returns through the arc B O by the joint action of the balance spring, and the auxiliary spring u, the acceleration of both springs ceasing the instant the balance arrives at the quiescent point O, when tlae balance has proceeded in its vibration about 27° beyond the point O to the position C k, the rod Z W meets wlth the arni I k, and by carrying it forward releases the tooth * The angle b G B is not expressed in the figure fbrjwant of room, but is easily :magitled; being precisely equal to the angle b C B represented on the balance. t This magnitude of the arc b B has beetl inEerred froin the bllowing circumstances commllnicated by Mr. Mu o G E . I St. " The whole arc of vibration is abollt 4 05 {¢a circle, or 270°, consequendy the semiarc of sibrationis x35o ziTy.Theaction of the balance by carrying rollnd the arm O G from h to B winds up the auxi{ liary sp riilg through an angle about four times y reater than the artgle O C h through ¢ which it is wound up by the actioIl of the balance wheel on the pallwt." Wherefore if Q B, or 1 35°, is divided into five parts, one of them will be O h = 27°, and the other four parts, or b B 1 o8° the Tlemes of Vibratton ofr Watch Balances.Tstof the balance wheel from the pallet q ; the balance wheel accordingly reralves, and the upper tootll meeting with the pallet p, winds up the auxiliary spring u as before. The balance with the crank proceeding to describe the renlaining semiarc k E, winds up the sprirJg s through the further angle k C E = lo8°; the lbalance returns through the semiarc E 0, by the joint actioll of the balance spring and the auxiliary spring v, both of which cease to accelerate the balance the instant it has arrived at 0:. It is remarkable according to this construction, that no force or impulse w}watever is communicated to the balance from the mairl spring, and yet the vibrations are continued of their due length: on further consileration it appears that the maintainsng power of the machine, instead of commurlicating arly force or impulse, acts by removing a part of the force which retards the balancewhile it is descrlbing the latter semiarc of eachvibration In the preceding account it has been shewn that the balance describes the semiarc from 13 to O by the joint action of tlae two springs; nonv for a nnotllent let it be supposed thatv the balance vibrated through the entire arc B OE (fig. 7 and 8. ) by tlle joint artion of the tsvo springs} ill the same manner as if one balance spring only was applied of the same strength witll both; in this casen the balance commencing i-ts vibration at tthe extremity of the arc 13 after having 3assed the semiare B O with an accelerateel motion, would describe an equal arc O E on the other side of Oy by retarded tnotion, provided it was not obstructed by friction or other irregular resistances; but such resistances t?;king place will cause the latter semiarc, which is described by retarded rnotion tos fall short of the arc O E by some small difference iS S. There are tw;o modes by vvhich this latter semiarc may be restored to its due length O E, eithe-r by communicating an irnpulse to the balancefrom the Mr. ATWOOD?S Investigations for determining2main sprlng, or by retnoving a part of the force which retards the ascellt of the balallce while it describes the latter semiarc OE. Mr. lul7DGE has discovered and applied to his time keeper the latter mode of supplying the power which is required to continue the balance in lnotionF During the progress of the balance through the seniarc B 0, it is aecelerated by the Joint action of tlle lalance spring and ausiliary spring u; but svhile it describes the latter semiarc O E (fig. 7 and S. ) it is retarded by the joint actions of the balance spring and auxiliary spring, only while it describes a part of tlle serniarc from k to E, tlle retardation of the auxiliary sprilag being removed while it describes the first 27G of this semiarc from O to k. It is evidellt, according to hIr. 1uUDGE'S construction9 that the diminution of retur:lation which is equivalent to the stlpply of power to the baiailce, lnust altways be of the sanze magnitudeg so far as regclrds the influence of the main springS provided it has sufficient force to wind up the auxiliary springs through the constant algle C) G; h o O C k (figr 8.) , arld the effiects of 11eat and cold on the auxiliary springs are rsecessarily included in the compensation which is applied for heat and cold to the balance spring. The maintairling power there-fQren by which the motion of the balance is continuedn must be a1ways ulaiformly the same 9 this is an object usually held to be cf materialconseqel-ence in the constructiollof watches, and though ofterl atternpted by ingenious persons, has probably been accolnplAished in its full extent for the first time by WIr. MUDGE. 'lnhis construction possesses the further aclvantage of having the balance perfectly det;ached from the wheel svork of tlle macTline; the only coulmllnicationX betsveerz tlle balance a-nd the * The exact tirtles in which the balance descl;-bes any portioles of tlle arc of vibrat;orl lsay be readily ol)tailled by havirlg recourse to tlue theorem ;nvestigated in page tbe Times of V}ratzon of tYatch BalancesrsXbalarace wheel is that which subsists while the pallet is disengaged from the tooth, an instant of time in-a practical sense aImost evanescent : it should also be retnarked, that the pressure of the tooth-against the projection of the pallet is diminished before tlle tooth is released, by the counteraction of the other pallet on the opposite tooth of the balance wheel; whicla action takes place just before the tooth of the balance'wheel first mentioned ls released from the pallet: by this diminution of pressure,, the tooth is the more easily detached from the projection of the pallet. These circumstances concur in giving to the machine facility and lightlless of motion. The preceding investigations are in the next place to be apI26. IEwe can ascertain the are described by the balance while the tooth of the balance wheel is released from the:projection of the pallet, the portion of time irl which the balance is connected with the 7heel-work of the machine will be knownX By an ex-. periment made on a very exact model of Mr. MUDGE2S construction, it appeared that the balance described an arc of about 8o, 7hile the tooth was released from the pallet. And since the balance describes lo8° of its semivibration before the pallet begills to be moved, it will have described I I6D before the tooth is released, we are therefore to find -the tirnes in which the balance describes severally the two arcs ao8°and 1 t6°: the difference of these times will be the tillle in which the balance wheel is released from the pAllet. By the thearem referred to Parts of a second. The time in which the balance describes an arc QF 1 X6° is -0.09IO1 Tilne of describing an arc of lo8-° is v . <3.o87 I8 The.di£erence, or time during which the balance is conIlected with the other parts of the machirle, -o.oo3 83 which is about 2zR5 Spart of a second of mean timc, the effects of friction nc)t being here consideredO If thesefte the time of a s:emivibrawtion is supVosed to be divoded into loo equal . parts, orSphysical instants, during the first 91 of them the balance will descrbe 108@ from the extremity of the arc of vibration, to the contact af the arm connected with the pallet. During the 4 sxlcceeding instants th-e pallet will be released, and durirlg the 5 instants following, the balance will descrite the remaining arc of the semivibrati(3n4 Thus it appears, that the balan-ce moves perfectly free and unconnected with the wheelsvork of the machine during p6 parts in IOO 05 the time of -cach vibfationN, MOCCXCIVo X 1eF ATWOODgS InvestigZ;ions Jror<.d.etermzningplied to ascertain what alteration of the daily rate is occasiorled in consequence of any deviatio-ll from coincidence of the points of quiescerlce c3f tlae balance spring and auxiliary springs, (fig 8, arld fig. 4 and . )tlwat lnay have taken place either through a cas<ual derangertwent of their positiorl, or froTn-a purposed adJustrnent. This inquiry oiSers tllree casesg which are to be separatey coisidered; fthe first is, when the points of quiescence of the auxiiiary springs< coincide with tlle point of quiescence of the balance sprlng. sdly. When the point of quiescellce q of the auxiliary spring u is situated ill the fir-st semiarc of the vibrationn or between B and O: (fig. 4 and 8 ). gdly. When Q is sitllated in tlle latter setniarc of vibration between E arld (:) (iXge $. ) ; the like coternporary position is to be ullclerstood in respect of the other auxiliary spring. The consideration of tilese cases reqllires that the accelerativeX forces of the balance sprlng and auxiliary springs9 when at a given tenslon9 shoultl be known This point will not be difficult to ascertain, if the proportion of the sping's forces at the same tension is given. By infortnation received from Mru MUDGE it appears that the force of each auxiliary spring is abo:ut 2Iopart of the force of the balance spring. A ssuming t3lis proportion let the points of qvliescence of the auxiliary springs be supposed to coincide with the poi-nt of quiescence of the balance spring, and let the radlus of the balance be taken at one illCtl§; the watch being adJ-usted to mean time, when the balance makes five vibrations in a second, if the force of gra . . . . vity is-, the force which accelerates the circumference at an . . * The accelerative fiorce beiflg always proportional to the absolute fiorces of impulse (as measured or counterpoised by a weight) divided by the mass movecl equivalent to the resistance of inertia,^the latter quarstity remaining the same in the case of a balallce's vibration, the accelerative irces will be in the same ratio with the forces of smpulwa the lEmes of Vibration: Qg alch Balances.anplar distance of go° from tlle quiescent point vsrlll be = .oo408g26 (p. 129): this force, irl the present instance,is com;pounded oftheforce of the balance spring, and that of the auxi liary spring, which are assulued to be in the proportiorl of 20 to l l consequently the force of the balance spring to accelerate the circumference at the tension go° orfo.gS62ys4 and the force of the auxiliary spring at the same tensIon, or aIo off = *04781Sg Joint force of both springs to accelerate the circumference at the tension, go° orf + 2-lof = I.0040892 WithX this force the balance vibrates five times in one se* FrcBm the investigation in page t28 it appears, that if F is the acceIerative forcc Otl the circalmference of the balatlce at the angular distance from quiescence c°, p 3.l+159, &c. r = the radius-ofthe balance expressed in inches, 1= I93 inches; thc time of a sem;vibration will be / p3 r c° 8ZE XI800 In the present case c 90°, r = I inch F =f + s-lOf = I .0040892; whef efore the time of a semivibration = X/8 PF r c 8 o-s-t6 part of a second precisely. If the balance should vibrate by the force of the auxiliary springs orlly, the force of acceleration on the circumference at the distance 9O° from quiescence is -t0 f 0.0+78 1 38; wherefore 2l0f being substituted for F in the quantity /8 l 2) r c8; the other values remaining the same as in the former case, the time of a semivibration J 3 r Co pts. of a sec. will now be 8/ g l x tI [ x 1800 = s4s835; and the time shewn by the watch in any portion of mean time t will8 -=t x .21S2z. Thus if t should be taken = to one minute, or 60 seconds of time, the time shewn by the watch in 60 seconds will be = 6s x *21822 = 13 seconds nearly. I:his would be the result if the forces of the balance and allsiliary springs were prce cisely in the proportion of :zo to 1. Mr. Mupc, E mentioned this proportion by estiX 2 Mr. ATWOOD'S Investzgations,fi7r'determinz'ng--6cond wllen adjusted to mean time, the daily rate will therefoe in this case be = o. t30w let S2 (fig 4 and-8.) or the point of quiescence of the auxiliary spring deviate from 0 the point of quiescence of the balance spring, by an arc O Q, suppose this arc O Q to be = s° v and letthe point Q be situated in the first semiarc of vibration between O ancl 13 The time of describing the semiarc B O will be ascertained on these conditions by referring to the investigation (page o40) alad making the following substitutions: -a = .S707963 an arc of go° to radius-< * b-2 3s619+^-an arc of 1S5° c 2.33874o2 = an arc of <34 b-c-d = 0.01*74*533 an arc of zo I-193 f-o.g562754 n 2 O mation orlly, not having any memorandum of experiments made to ascertain the exact proportion. If therefore the actual rate of the watch shouXd be obserlred when the balance vibratesbby the action of the auxiliary springs only, it is-probab]e that the time shewn by the watch in 60 seconds of mean time might differ somewhat from that which has been here s-tated Since these notes were written, I have been favoured by his Excellency Count B R U H L with an account of an observation made OI1 the rate of Mr. MUDGEXS £St ti1Mekeeper, wherl the balance vibrated by the action of the auxiliary springs Qn1YS the balance spring being remoured. According to this observation, the watch shewed twelve minutes by the motion of-the hands in ol1e hour of meats time, which corresponds to an interva3l of 12 secoIlds of time, shewn by the watch in 60 seconds) or one minute of mean time. According to the calclllation, 13 seconds of time are shew-n by the watch in one minute. A nearer agreement between the theory and matEr of ict could scarcely be expected iIl the circumstances of the experiment * In all the following calculations the radius is also = [. the 7ines af Vibration of Watsb Balanecs.Then, s/ 2 _ X into a circlllar arc, of which the sine is If X n + x 2 parts of a second, z h + z n c o.o99S$°7 R F. . f/2 lf X into a circtular arc, of which the sine d ^/ ^2 + n cz 9 o-.ooo47Xb74 Time of a semivibration inthe arc B O = *oooo2244 The time shewn by the watch in 24h = 1.004ZZ4.4 = 2Sh S9' 40t'.Co, giving a daily rate of 19'J.40 S1QW. This variation ofA the daily rate is not to be considered as; affecting the regularity of the watch, as it is either compensated jby adjustments when the watch is regulated to mean time, or-taken as the estalalished rate. A more material point is next to be determined; admitting the deviation of O and Q (fig. 4. and 8.) to be O Q = °, the same as in the former Gase; suppose the semiarc of vibration to be dimlnished from s3St to 124°. If tile points of v quiescence O and Q Nvere coincident this diminutionFof the are of vibration would cause no alteration (page g8) in the time of a semivibration; because the forces of acceleration o£ both springs would be as theangular distances from tile same quiescent point O, but since these points are separatexl by an are of °> a dimiriution of 10° in the semiarc of vibration, will cause a changei in the daily ratey which willr be obtained frz3m the generalstheorem (page O) by maliing the bilowing substitutions . a = o.15707963 =:; an 3vC kof 9Q° b _ e.181661-6 = an= at oiSw 125° c; = 2.l64eQ83 =an arc of z< t< _Yd = ° °X74S33 = an:: arcfof 1° Mr ATW:OOD'S Investzgationsffior determtningI-,193 f_ o.g5627Sffi n = 2I0* , 8/ 2 a X into a circular arc, -of wllich the sine is If x n + I * parts of a; secondJ /< c; x n + I = _ _ o ogg5 zL472 zb + 2 ns >/ alf x a circular arc, of which the stne is/ b2 Jr n C2_ _ o. oooSog4g The time of a semivibration .10O0242 1Time shewn by tlle watch in 24h =, oo2o42421 = B3h 591 Sg".c8 giving a daily rate of 20t.92 slOw. Dailyrate,whenthesemiarcofvibrationwasgS°ag".40S10w Retardation of the daily rate in -consequence of the diminutiotz of the sem-iarc of vibration from 135 tO 125 _ _ _ _ Itt 52 In these examples, the pOillt of quiescence of the auxiliary sprirlg Q is situated in the first semiarc of vibration between B and O; and in consequence of this pOSitiOll, the daily rate of tlle time-keeper is-retarded by a separation of the points of quiescence, while the semiarc of vilbration remainsvthe same; i. e. 13t°;secondly, the separation of the pqints of quiescence remaining unalteretl, a diminutioll of tbe arc of vibration causes a further re-tardation of the rate Opposite effects on the daily rate take place when the point of quiescence Q is situ-ated in the latter semiarc of vibration, (fig. .) bet-ween O and E. sThe arc O Q renlaining = 1° as before, this case produces an acceleratioll instead of a retardation of the rates the Tlmes of Yibrion of Watch Ealances.ls9Supposq the semiarc of vibratlon B 0 to be 9qS5° Separation of the points of quiescence = 0 Q ° Arc BQ in fig. :, or B N in fig. 8. 36° The time o1F clescribing the semiarc B 0 will be detersined by reterring to the theorem (page 146). makig a .5707ffi36g -an arc of go° b = 2 . Ss6 X 945 _ an arc of X 35° s = 2.37^g6+78 an arc of lg6@ do.c)oy+qS3g = an arc of 1° I_ 19g. f. o.g5627rSae I 8 20Tlle time of describing the semiarc B0v Parts of a second. x a circular arc of which the sine is / b_d vxn +-o.ogg:o617 Z b + znc 5/ a X a c}rcular arc of which the sine 21fX s + 2n /^ + n Cz-Z n d; -0.00047141 Time of a seminribration in the arc B 0 _ o.oggg77,58 Timeshewnbythe watch in 24h99974758 = 5D4h o/ lg".38, giving a daily rate of 19.''S8 fast. Every thing else remaining, let the semiarc of vibration be diminishetl from 1ffi3(5° to 1255°> arld make b = 2.<816616 = an arc of 1e5° c-2.1991<49 = an arc of s26° The time of describing B 0 will now be s/f ^' x a 1l So Mr. ATWO OD'S Investigations for determtning ) * _ Parts of t secondw circular arc of which the sine is s/ b -b x n + I =o.oDg4666s a X a circular arc of which the sine 21f X 1 + zn V/bZ + ncz-2 tt dX = .000$0912 Time of a semivibration in the arc B O = .oggg7rS74 Time shewn by the watch in 24h-99947574 = 24h 0{ 20/t.9X, -giving a daily rate of 20".91 fast.Daily rate when the semiarc of vibration was 135° _ _?19".SS fasteAcceleration of the rate in consequence of the diminution of the semiarc of vibration from 1g$° to Xt = -zt Gs The ttheorem from vvhich this latter resoult has been calculated is founded on a supposition, that tlle arc B N (fig. S ) is described by the acceIerative forces of the balance spring and the auxiliary spring u, and ithat the arc N O is described by the accelerative forces of the two springs just mentioned, combined with the retarding force of the other auxiliary spring , of which the pOillt of quiescence is situated at N (fig. . ). It may possibly be thought that this supposed action of the auxiliary spring vt;lich retards the balance while it describes the arc from N to 0, cannot take place, because by the peculiar construction of Mr. MUDGE'S invention, when the balance vibrates f-rom B towards E, the retarding force of the auxiliary spring is re moved from acting on the balance while ittdescribes the arc N k-27° (fig. 5.), in cludillg the said arc N() , btWlt lt is to be considered, that this removal of the retarding foxce from tbe Timrs ()f EIbratioua of Watch>Balances.acting on the balance while it describes the arc from N to 4, is merely av mechanical expedient for supptying the power which as lost by friction, and as it is thtls wholly ernploJred and cmn teractedf 1t appears requisite, in making-calculatons of the times itl which the balance vibrates, that tlle entire forces of .. ... the springs are to be taken into the calculatiorl ill the same lnanner as if friction did notexist, and no mecllarlical contri vance was necessary for comperlsating the loss of tuotion in consequence of it. But since. in pointof fact7 no retarding force acts on the balance while it describes the arc -N 0, according to the conditions under cotlsiderationf it may be satisfactory to calculate the time of a semivibration in the aro B O on this ground also, that isS on a supposition that the erltire semiarc B O is described\ by the joint acceleratve forws of the balance spring, and the allxiliary spring u only; it will appear that this slight rrariation of the condltions does not at all affect the conclusions deduced from the }receding calculations, and very little alters the results theinselves. The time of describing the semiarc BO, on these conditions; will be determined by referring to the theorem (page <4X) and making the following notationst a = I S707963 = an arc of go° to mdius = X b-2.356o94S-an arc of 1sS c-t 2.$7$647X _ an arc of 36 d-o.ol74$33 = arl arc of °. 1 = 193 s= °.9S6gys+ 2 O' The tlme of a semivibration is = / x into a clr If X n + Iy3ADCC-XCIY-. z62Mr. ATWOODIS Investigalions for determiningJ pts. of a second. cular arc, of which tlle sine 4 2bbX+ +tlc-'099977Se Time shewn by the watch in 24h = 9 974752 3 24h o' 19tt.4e, givlng a daily rate of g/'.42 fast* . Every thing else relnainirlgn let the sezniarc of vibration be dilminislaed from :3S° to 125°; aand make b = 2.o816616 _ an arc of ,° to radius 1. G'_* 2.1991o49 an arc of 126°* The time of describing the semiarc B O will now be2 a X a circular arc-, of wllich the sine = g b x n + I If XH+I . Xb+nc ° °9997S7° parts of a secotad. Time shewn by the watcl-l ill 524h _ gg294S70 = 24h oZ go".g63 giving a daily rate of 20'l.96 fast. daily rateS when the semiarc of aribration was S° lgfl.42 fast Acceleration of daily rate in consequetace of the t dimitaution of the senaiarc of vibration from 3-gS° to za 25° </8 S4 scarcely differing from the former determination in page z60. By having recourse to the figure, we may distinctly perceive the three quiescent positions of the ams G O and I O, (fig. 8. ) in respect to the rods L 1H, Z W, whicil correspolld with the -several conditions as,sutned for the -calculation of the preceding examples. Irl the first placef the crank AX Y D, and the artms G 0, I 0, being irl their quiescent position, it is evident from the preceding observations, that when the arms G O, I O are adjusted so as just to touch the rods L Mg Z Wf the points of quiescerlce of the avlxiliary springs ls and r coincide with the point of quiescence of the balance spring 0, (fig. 6.) and in the Tinzes of Vibralion of Watch 13aiozn¢es.o6,3this case, the balance making S vibrations itl a secondcwhe adjusted to mean timef the daily rate is = o (p. a46). Secondly suppose the arms G O and IO to be so affixed to the axes TR, FS, (fig. 8 anel 4§) tilat instead of just touching the rods L M ancl N W WllPll quRescent, they are inclined-t to that position at any angle O G Q O 1[ N: tlle situation of the pallets p and q not being altered * in thiS case the point of quiescence of the auxiliary spring U7 Will be separated from the point of quiescence of tlae balance spring by the angular dis tance OGQ =: OCQ. In like manner the point of quiescerlce of the auxiliary spring v will deviate from tlae point of quiescence of the balance spring by the angular distance O I N SO C N. Suppose that the arc OQ = ON is = t° : the point of quiescence Q of the auxiliary sprirlg a is in tlle first selniare of vibration3 tllat is, between B and:O, (fig. 4.) while the balance vibrates from B to E ; and the point of quiescence -of th-e ausiliary spring v is in the first selniarc of vibrationbetween E and Of while the balancc vibrates from E to 13; on these conditiorlsS the semiarcs of vibration B O and OLs being g,°, the daily rate of the time-keeper will be 19".40 slower than mean time, (p. *G7) and if the setniarcs BO OE, should be diminished from l3,&j°tO 12^dj°, the dailyrate will be go''.gg slow (p. 4GS) ; the retardation of the daily rate in consequence of-the diminished semiarc of vibration being lJ'.52. To consider the remaining case if the arms GO IO, (fig S.) are adjuste(l so as to press equally by the force of the auxiliary springs against the rods L M, W Z, wllen quiescent the equal and contrary pressures prevent any apparent effiect 31 The irce of the main spring not being supposed to act on the balatlce wheeR, tf palletsp andq. ME ATWOOD>S Invesfigcrtivgs for determining164on the pQBion -of -the balance or crank A X Y D; if the rod LM should be removed (btr turning the balance in its plane)7 suppose that the arm GO rests in a position GN, at a clistance beyond O, which is measured by the arc ON _ 1° t in this position the pOillt of quiescence ofthe auxiliary spring u will be si-tuated in the latter semiarc of lribration at N, between E and O, and by a similar adjustlment of the quiescent position of the arm IO, (fig. 5 and 8 ) the point of quiescence of the auxiliary spritlg v will be situated at Q in the latter semiarc of the vib-rations between O and B; in conwquence of this position -of the points of quiescence, the daily rate of the watch will be -accelerated jgJ'.38n (p. lS9) while the semiarc of vibration continues 135°) and when the semiarc -of vibration is diminished to 125° the daily rate will be further acceIerated a the rate being goS'.gl fast, (page 160) or 1''.^53 faster than when the semiarc of vibration was 3t°* From these severalX results it rnay be conclllded, that although the rate of going of Mr. MUDGE'S time-keeper depends materially on the quiescent position of the arms G 0, I 0 (fig. 8.)} that is, on the position of the points of quiescence of the auxiliary springs yet while that pO.Sition remains unalteredS whatever it may be7 the regularity of tlle timekeeper will not be aSected in consequence of tI-;e sald position, provided the $emiarc of vibration continues tf-Xt same X but srSen this arc s o Tt is scarcely necessary to observe, that aXth01uPh these resuts have been snvesti gated from supposing the elastic forces of ths spirzi.l stprinrgs to 13e IS the precise law of the tex3sions, or distances from quiescence; yet if tze spring's forces should deYiato somewhat firom that law, the generaI conclusions deduced aCrom the preceding calcu lations respecting the acceIeration or retardation of tEXe rate ar1sing from an alteration in the position of the poitlts of qlliescence, zzill still be true, although the degree ill which these effects take place may not be exactly the saine as when the springXs forces a ili the precise law assumed in the investigations fihe Times of Zibration ef AVatch Balances.diminished, an acceleration or retardation of the daily rate will take placea according to the situation-of the points of quiescence of the auxiliary springs referred to the semiarcs of vi-! bration in which these springs respectvely act. If the points of quiescence of the auxiliary springs should be situated in the first semiarcs of vibratlon a diminution of these arcs will cause a retardation of the rate S but if the l?oitits of quiescenceb should be situated in the latter semiams of the respect-ve Yibrations, the daily rate will be accelerated. By means of Mr. -MI}DGE}S construction we may applyAhe prirlciples deduced fbm the preceding investigations to correct suc-h alterations in the adaily rate as may arise from a diminiGhed or increased arc of vibration. For if it should be. known fFozn any satisfictory mode of trial, that the properti** of the balance sprillg are such as cause the longer arcs of vibration to be described in less titne than the shorter aros whenever the arc of vibration is-diiminished, the time-keeper will lose ; and this error in the rate wo}ld be corrected Vy ad1 Justing the points of quiescence of the auxiliary springs in th-es respstive latter semarcs of vibration at such a distance O N * Differentopinionshave been enter.ta.ined respectirlg the tirnes in which a balance,. vibratingo eely lyM r:he actDn of a spirM< spnng describes the lonzr and shorter arcs af vibration. Mr. HAWRLSQN say*, ¢X large arcs are naturally perbrrsed in less tlme than < small on"."-Notes taken at thei Discovery of Mr. EIA R R ISON 7S Time-keeper, p. r;i In this opinion he is bllowed by M. B ERTH O U D > (X J>ai appris par des experences sures, 4 que les grand arcs et les petlts arcs d>un balaxlcier lle sont pas isothrones;* et er ¢¢ general} InS un bilancier libre>*les -grands arcs sont plus prompts que les wtits.'} Mr. LonLAM, in hts reporwt addressed tothecommissionersofthebowdofIongitude,, and intituled} a Short V;ew of the Tmprovements made or attemptecI in Mr. H A ARX$O NS Watchs has the--folbwing remark: Xs The prInc2ple on which Mr HA-RRISON. brms X; the alteration of the third prt (heSrc describegX) ;S that the 1QN/eR vibrtions of a ¢s balance moved by the same spring are perforned-in less time. Thsss contraTyto. e; the receved optnion among philosoph:ers and<>trerkmen.Sy 'r>¢st contradictory opiniQxlsJmay possbXy X><..ffiW-ffe (|ld.XSta Fexpenntss ;r whh lWe ATwooD's Investigations for determining-66_ O Q (fig. 8 alld .) from the point of quiescence of the ba lance spring as corresponds with the error intended to be reca tified. In like lnannerg if the property of the balance sprlng should be such that a diSiNUtiOll of the arc of vibratioll causes an acceleration of the daily rate? this error will be corrected by placing the points Qf quiescence of t}le auxiliary springs in tlle first semiarcs of vibration, (fig. 4, alld 8 ) at their proper distances from the polnt of qLuiescence of the balance spring. It is, however, to be remarlied, that if the balance SpRillg SllOUld be-pf tl1e latter kind here assumed, and the points of quiescence of tlle aLtxXliary springs7 either by any casual derangemellt in tlleir position) or by an adjustment of thetn for-the purpose of experimental observationn should be placed in the latter semiaMrcs of vibrationn the efEect of this position would be an acceleration of the rateX whenever tlle semiarc of vibration is diminished and this effect would be produced on a double account b first, from the assumed nature of the balance spriilgn which disposes it; to describe the smaller arcs in less time all the circumstances capable of influencing the times of vibration in longer or shorter arcs, were either not noticedy or omitted to be properly alIowed br; this wilI seem the more probable if it be alLowed, that a balance spring may be adjusted in ViOtlS ways« so that either the longer or short.el arcs shall be perbrnled in+-the least time; IlOt only by altering the thickness and strength of the spring in d;ierent parts, but, if we subscribe to the opinion Of M. BE a<T HOU D) in a spring uIliform in every respect throu*gh out, by altering the length and number of turns. He infers, tl-lat a certain length and number of turns may be gilren to an uniform spiral spring which will Inake it perfectly isochronaI. This latter pri£acipley ilowever, does not appear to have been verified by any satisfactory experiments According to the inferences deduced firom the preceding inrestigations, three spiral springs, which are rlot isochronal when acting singly, may be so united by properly adjusting theoir polnts of quiescences that theil combined action shall cause the balance to perform its vibrations itl aIly two arcs of unequal lengths in the same time. $ The positioIl of the points of quiesceIlce of the auxiliary springs is here understood to be altered, by affixing the arms G 0, .T K, differently on the axes T R, F S; the quietent position of the pallets being no ways changndv the Tzznes of 1zzbrvtzon of bYaitch }3alances.<67than the larger arcs of vibration: and secondly, from the position of the points of quiesceri-ce of the auxiliary springs. But it is evident from the preceding considerations, that although thebalance springshouldnot be isochronal,yet the regularityof the time-keepervvillrlot be at all affected, however the pointsofquiescerlceof the auxiliarysprings may be gituated in respect of the point of quiescence of the balance spring, as long as the semiarc of vibration continues uncharlged S and if the serniare of vibra tion should be liable t) increase or climinution, Mr. MUDGE'S construction affiords an eSectual remedyagainst this causeofariation in the rate9 since the arms projecting from the auxiliary springs may be so adjusted, as toplace their points of quiescente either in the first or latter serniarcs of vibration, according as the balance spri-ng, when act¢ng singlyS causes the sherter or longer vibrations to be described n the least time 0R1 revising the precedi92g pages a few observatzons }22tre ocellrred/ tbicb may be here io-seJted. Note to tage I-zZ, line 3-T7ne elastic force t}f tlle spiral sring when at a given tens-on to turtl the bcalance, is hStre assumed to be the sam> whether the balance is at rest or in rnotioil b>on.g in both cases equcil to tl<e welght by whieh the springSs brce at the gisren tensioil woaold bn counterposedv Note {o prJge 131.-It is not laecessary to adc! constar}t quastltities to t}le fluerlts of x S tii tlX 3nS ,,/Xbn + 1 _ Xn + 1 + i/C?X + I _ yn + s; beause when the entire Ruents a.re t.-Sken, they are precisely in thn sanwe proportiorz) whether the constant quantities (oL corrections as tiley aresorneti}nes termed) are adde(l or omitted. Jddition {o the note ill page zo.Ef the poar.ts of quiescence are irl the frst semiarw of vibratlorl, and c = c, the point B will coirlcide witn Q_(fig. 4.), froln which point the vibratioll w"li commerlce; itl this case the expression for the tinae of a semivibra . . tiotR will become t = nf x an arc of which the sine is d v or an arc of got = . P2 O or t = e/a8tf; which agrees entirely with the sollltion in page IZ6; for in this case the auxiliary sprin, not acting on the balance while it describes the arc (t0 N3 the balance will yibrate by the folce of the balance spring only; of which the force at the clistance a or 9O° is-fg aIld corlseqllently lJy the theorpm investigated in page 1 26v Mr. ATWO-OD'S Investigationsn Sc0the tinle of a semiribration is 4 the same as is deduced from the more generU expression. Corollary {o the SQtU{iVX iK page x,+6.-1f the points of quiescence of the anxiliav springs are in the latter setniarcs of vibration, and the vibration commences from the point N (fig*.), in this case d = ^, or c = z d, and by the solution .in page 4d, the . . . <time of a semiriblation becomes , x an arC of which the sine w5 slfX 1 + 2n 2 J 8/d x I + 2 8, or an arc of go° = P : wherefote the time of a semivibration = d2 x 1 +:n z _ / a p ,; We observe, therefore, that whether thc points of quie5cence o£ fhe auxilialy springs are-situated in the@Srst or latter semiarcs ot lribration, if tbe semiare of vibration sheaid be = to the distance of the said points from the point of qllIescence of tlie balance spring, the times -of vibration till be the same whatever be the magnitude of that semiarc Note15opage x64.-Supposirxg, as gin theformerexamples,the points of quiescence of thv auxiliary springs to be at the distance of 1° from the point of quiescence of the balance spring the Yariations of rate firom mean time, when tbe semiarcs of vibratlon ares I35°, 125°> 60°, and 10° seYerallys will be as expressed-underneath: Points of qlliescente in the first semiarcs of vibration. sSemiarcs of vibration. Variation of the daily rAte from mean tims 135° Igs4o I 25° 208.92 6c° *44!'33 loo 4**24 *24 Points of quiescence in the latter semiarcs of vibration. 3S + I 9#.38 -I 25° + 20#*9 X bS -{43#¢60 }oo " + 4+23 *6 If: auxHi-ary $prIngs should be applied for the sole purposeof maklng the lYibratoas of the °oalante isochronal, it may probably be found conaenient to adjust the points d quiescence of the auXiliary and alance springs at a greater distance than 1°; suppose whe distance to be I00. Let the arc of vibration be 45O°s or 1X; of a revollltione and suppose the balance to make bur vibrations in a secotld; Otl these conditions two auxIliary springs, each of which is about g2i part of the fiorce of the balance spring, or perhaps a sin0e allxiliary spring proportionally -stronger, wsll, in most cases, be sufficient to cQmpcnsate for the want of isochronism in :the ba2anee -spr;ng. i | i \e -pe w w -ww * -r F w\ -Zh. n. MD CC1V. S . w. >6@..Do-o ' tJrt '>t,i/AX TbES[+M M<g WasodR *Seg*#q2gg-o Nf _ 0 