: 1963 X5F. Observatzns on Vzsion. By David Hosaclc, M. D. Com municaled by George Pearson M. D. Fe R. S. Read May , 1 :79+. BY sv11at power is tlle eye enabled to view objects distinctly at diFferelat distances ? As the pupil i$ enlalged or diminislled accordiIlg to the greater or less qualatity of lit,ht, and in a certain degree to the distarlce of the object, it would readily occur tllat these diffierent c}langes of the pupil svould accotlnt for the phaellotnena in question. Accordingly anatomists and philosophers, who have avritten upon this sul)ject, have generally 11ac! recourse to this explanation. Am-using nzyself witl] these challges of tTle pupil, as a lxatter of curiosityn by presenting to the eye diff7erelat objects at dif ferent distances, I SODIl perceived tllat its contractiola alld. dilatation were irreguiarand more lituited tllatl 11ad been sup posed X i. e. that approaclling the object llearer tTle eye, svitllin a certain distance, the pupil not only ceased to contractZ but became again dilated; and that beyond a few yards distallce3 it aIso ceased to ciilate: these circumstances immeciiately ocw curred as obJections to the above explanation; for strere it from tlle contraction and dilatation of the iris alone that we see objects at different distancesr I llaturally conclucled it should operate regularly to produce its efEects ; but if to view an object at a fev;t yards distance it be enlarged to the utmost Dr. Hossexvs Observatzons on Mzsiond197extent, surely it must of itself be insufficiellt to view one at the distance of several milesn for example, the lleavenly bodies. Azother difficulty here presents itself: in viewing the sunn lnsteacl of dilating, according t;o tlae clistancen it colltracts, obeyizg ratller tlle quaatity or ilatensity of the light, than the distance of the object. Knowing no other c)bvious power in tile eye itself of adapting it to tlle differetlt distances of objects, it occurred to me to illqelire, whether the cv-Lalbilled action of the external muscles could nc:t 11ave this efEect. I first proposed this query to an opticiaIl of eminence in Lonaloll, and svho l-as written expressly on this subject. I repeated the $XmE QUeStiOll to a ceqebrated t-eaJcher of anatomy. Encouraged by tlleir replles, I la<lve si;nce zattentled more particularly >;o tTle suSioct;, allcl l-lope z71y in(uiz ies have not beeil altoether lAllSUCCESSfU. As ltltroductvly tv a laore distilact view of what I I-lave to acIvanceg it app6-+alS lleCCSSary tG premise the -follosving obserxlatio-s, relative to vlllose general laws of visio +R7laic1l are noure particulclrly coXnne+>d svitll tllis part of the subject, and to lllich ve sllLlll laxTe occasioll of frequellt referellce. lSt t>tt A B C3 ( fab. SVI I. fiiC7. < * 3 be ctn obje( t placed before the douDle col1N7es le;s D , at atly disjJuatace gleeater than the :radius of tlle sl3here shezreo tlle letls is a seglmelat; the rays hich issue frona t1ze differetat pOilltS of the object, alld fall upon t31e lens, xvill T3so 1)etat lcJy blle refractive power of tlle glass as t-o be 1nade to conene at as 1malay other points be!^iinct tlae lelas, and at the place of t5zeir concourse they svill form an image or picture of the object. rf]1e distance of tlle izmage behirltl the glass varies in proportion to the distance of the 198IDr. HOSACK'S Observations on Yision.object before the glass 5 tlle image approaching as the object recedes, and receding as that approaches. For if we suppose, (fig. 2.), A and B two radiating points, from svhich the rays A C, A D, and B C, B D, fa11 uporl the lens C D, it is manifest that the rays from the nearest point A diverge lnore than those from the more distant point B, the angle at A being greater than that of B ; consequelltly the rays from A, whose direction is A E and A F sYhen they pass throtlgh the glass, must convene at solne point (as G) more distant from the lens than the poillt H, where the less diverging rays B E: and B L from the point B are made to colavene 7 which may also be proved by experiment svith the cotnmon convex glass.+ It will be rlecessary to have this proposition in view, as we shall afterwards have occasioll to use it in shesving, tllat by varying the distalace l)etJvYeen the retina and the anterior part of tlle eye we are enabled to see objects at diffierent distancese 2d. IS all oNbject, a;, A B, (fig. g. ) be placexl at a proper distance before the eye (E), tlle rays which fall from theseveral pOilltS of the oh ject fallillg upon tlae cornea pass through the ptlpil, aad svill be brougl-<t together lJy the refractive power of the diSerent parts of the eye on a.s many corresponding points of the retina, and there pailat tlle image of the object, in tlle same manner as the izmages of ol3gects p]aced before a conrex lens are painted upon the spectru-n, placed at a proper distance behind it; thustthe rays which flow froln the point A are united on the retlna at C, alad tllose wllich proceed from B are coliected at D, and the rays from all the irltermediate points are convened at as many intelnmediate points Qf the * EUCLID, Book I. Prc)p, 2I. f See KBPI.ER Diopt. POSTM1. SMITH s Optics, GRAVESANDEX, SCT IDr. FIOSACK>S Observatzons on Vision.199retina ; on thls uion of t}ose srays at the retina depends distinct visior. But su;posing tsne eye of a givell form, shoulel the point; of lulAion sie brond <-he retina, as must be tlole case with those frotn tlae less distant ol)ject, agreeable to tlle preceding propositiotl; or slaould they be united before they arrive at the retina, as from the tnore distant object, it is evident that the picture at the retina must be extremelzr confused. Novjr as the rays which fall upon the eye fro;.n radiating points at lifferent distances 11ave different clegrees of divetgetlce, an(l the divergence of th@ rays increasing as the distance of the radiating pOillt lessens and, vice rersa, lessening as tilat increases, agaitz, as those rays which have greater degrees of divergence, viz. from the nearer objectsz require a stronger refractive power to brin$ thetu togethsr at a given distance tllan whatS is necessary to make those lueet which diverge less, it is matlifest, thctt to see objects flislLinctly at different distclnces, e;tlaer tle reflactive power of t}le eye must be increased or dilniniszed, or the distance between the iris and retina be vclried, correspolldiag with tT'e difIerent distances of the objects; botll of svhicXl probably take place, as will hereafter appear.$ Haviizg tlaen establislled tlAese as our premises, we shall ne7;t exatnine t}le diSeArent pricipleswh;C5t haste been employefl fo.r explaining vision at dierent clistallces. * " Facilo eJ+itn intell.gltttl*, quo lollgies ladii advetwiuntX eo may,is esse pa.r-tllelos, 4 to minus ergo dixCle,-re ab axi, et ee .zlinoribus virchus corlltZs-e z; lerstis cryslalilila in " fccum ctzgi. Ut enim corpas magis distat, ita sub mir el; alge1sv r, (li adslt-l;lnt. 6C Contra si corpus ce; s;) jnum v;21de vic.itlt3m tilrit, rador;lln '> t'V austotiEnsill. tls; gulus est mFor, et a(inv tr.at,is d1oPr,:,elltes in <.> tit.tt\ il<ciflur3it>; '2-4us eent rctri { gentibus majoribus o;nn;bus densiorilous."-H1^ L L E R . ElEm. PilyS. 1l O. X\ti Dr. HOSACK'S Obsersations on qvisiot.toOMost writers uporl tllis subject refer -this power of the eye to the contractioIl anfl dilaJcation of the iris. Within certain linlits thls viould, upon first examinatioll, as already observed, appear to be the case, siace the pupil enlarges as tllle object is furthelO removed froln the eye, and afraill contracts as it is brougllt near. Tlle extellt o-fthis prilaciple I Ilave already poitited out; but I suspect we also err in attributing to tlle diSerence of distance wllat are ollly effects of different cluantities of liglltg a circumstance in wllicll it is tlleZ lalore easy to columit error as they are generally proportionate o-ze to the otller; i. e. as the object is near s^Je re tlire a less degree of lighand to exclude svhat is superfllous the iris contracts * but as it is more distant, a greater avsantity of ligltt becomes necessary and tlae iris clilates: tllus far sve see tTle ase of t]le ealargenaent or diminutioil of the ptlpil, as tle ob)ect is Inore 03; less distant. Btlt disfillCt ViSit)Il {4OeS 110t collsist in tlle quantity c)f ligllt alclne, tllough too lnucll or too little woul(l obscure the image. Il is also necessary that tlAe rays xvlaicil flow from tlle object sllould fall UpOIl the retiica in a certain clirectioll, to form a distinct picture o but stlrely the gieat-er or Iess quatltity of light, the greater or Iess number of rays, whicll it is only the property of tlle iris to dimxnisI1 or i;creaQe, canllot alter the direction. But tllere is still anotller argutnerlJu to p^oste, that tlle COlltraction or enlargement of tle pupil is not of itself sufflcient to produce distillct vision at differeilt distances, viz. that tlle myopes, whose pupil colltl-acts and dilates cs in other eyes, are still unable to adeLpt tlle eye to different distalaces; atld the means by which this is remedied certainly does not consist in Dt. HOSACK'S ObservaZions oz M.siow.a larger or smaller aperture for the rays to pass tllrovlgh, but a power of altering their (lirectioll, WiliCIl the challge ial the shape of the eye had rendered too collvergetlt. rhe SR1nC fact is also observable in those wllo squint; the puy3il i< bOtll eyes equally contracts and dilates, but still the vision of one eye is less perfect than tlae otller. Another principle upOl< which it has been attempted to explain this power of tlle eye, is a supposed change in the convexity of the crystalline lens; the arlcients had sorne obscure nc)tion of it, hut it has been lately pursued by Mr. THOMAS YOUNG, in a paper published in the Philosophical rRransactions of Londoll for 179S. He has erldeavoured to demonstrate the existelace of muscles in the crysta]line lens, and by their ac-tioll to accoullt for distinct vision at diffierellt distances. This opinic)n deserves here the rnore particular exanaination, having met the attention of the Royal Society, azld tlaereby likely to iIlfluence the getleral opinion upon this subject. 'rllat ve may not mistake tlae mealaing of the author, I beg Ieave to premise his description of tlae structure of tlle lens. c; rf lle crystalline lens of the ox,9' he observes, sc is an orbicular ;4 convex trallsparent boly, composed of a considerable llumber t; of sinilar coats, of wlaicll the exterior closely adhere to the c; interiorX each of these coats consists of six muscles, inter" mixed with a gelatinous sul}stance, and attached to six mem" branotls tenclons. Tllree of these tendons are anterior, v; three posterior; their length is abotlt two-thirds of th-e ;; semidiameter of their coat o their arrangement is tllat of cc three equal and equidistant rays nleeting in the axis of the 4' crystalline; one of the anterior is directed towards the c; outer angle of the ey?, and one of the posterior towards the MDCCXCIVe D d Dr. HOSACK'S Obser7)ations on Eision.go4; inner ar)gle s so that the posterior are placed opposite to the 4i middle of the interstices of the anterior, and pianes passing 44throu-gla each of the six, anal through the axis, would mark sc on elther stlrface six regular equidistant raysj 'rlle muscu4' lar fibres arise from lsoth sides of each tendon, they diverge ; till they reacll the greatest circumference of the co;t, and<' havillg passed it, tlaey agaill converge till they are attached u; respectively to tl-le sides of the nearest tendons of the oppo;' site surface. The exterior or posterior portion of the six, C-; viesved together, exhibits t-lle appearance of three penni4-' formi-radiated muscles.'' In the first place, to say nothing of the transparency of mtlscles, as an argumellt against tlaeir existellce, we must unavoidably suppose, as they have mexnbranozls tendons, whiclz Mr. YOUNG i11fOrmS US he distinctly observed, that these tendons cannot possess tE2e sama degree of transparency and density wlth tlle bellies of these muscles v that is, they rnst possess some degree of opacityX or certainly lae could rzot laave pointed out their luembranous structure, nor even the tendon itself, as diStIllCt fronl the body of tlae muscle; alld if they havenot the saule dellsity, from tlleir situation alld beig of a pellnitorln shape, must tllere llot be some irregularity from the difference in the refractioll of those rays wl-aich pass through the bellies of those tnuscles an;l those again which pass through tlle-ir membranous telldon-s ? rrl-ais structube then, of consequence, ca.nnot bc well adapted for a body whose regular shape and transparelley are of so nzucla collsequence. Again, Mr. YOUNG describes six mllscles in each lasyer; but LEEUWENHOEK, whose authority lae admits as accuraten relative to the muscularity of the lens) is certainly moreto be attended to in his observation of bodies less rninute, viz. as tca Dr. HOSACK>S Vbseracltions osl tzision.goSthe layers themselves, in whichthese muscles are found, and which of course are larger, and more easily observed; but, with his accuracy of obserrration, he has computed, that there are near 2000 lamin a and according to Mr. YOUNG, SUPPOS ing each layer to contain six muscles, we have necessarily, iz -all, lg,ooo muscles; the action of which certainly exceeds human comprehension. I hope this will llot be deemed tr-ifling minuteness, as it is a necessary atld regular consequence, if we admit their existence as described. But secondly, as to the existence of tllese lauscles, I cannot avoid expressing a doubt. With the ut;most accuracy I was capable of, and with the assistance of the best glasses, to my disappointmentX I callnot l)ear vitness to the same circumstances related Ty Mr. YOUNG, but found the lells perfectly transparent , at the satne time lest it might be attributed to tile want of habit in looking through glasses, I beg leave to observe, that I have been accustonled to the use of them in the examination of the more minute objects of natural history. After failing with the glasses ill the llatural viscid state of the lens, I had recourse to another expedient; I exposed diffierent lenses before the fire to a moderate degree of heat, by which -they became opaque and dry, ln this state it is easy to separate the layers described by Mr. YOUNG; but although not so-numerous as noticed by the accurate LEEUWENHOEK, still they were too numerous to suppose eaPh to have corltained six muscles, for I could have shewn distinctly at least fifty layers, without the assistance of a -glass, aswas readily granted by those to whom I exhibited tllem. But a circumstance which would seem to prove tha;t these D d i! Dr. HOSACK'S Observatians an Vision.204layers possess no distinct muscles is, that in this opaque state they are not visible, btlt consist rather of an almost infinite numberofcollcentric fibres (if tliae} term be at a11 appropriate) not divided into particular bundles, bLlt similar to as many of the finest hairs of equal thicklless5 arranged ill sirnilar order: see fig. 4, , and 6, where tlle arrallgelnent of tlle layers and fibres 11as been painted frorrl the real leIls of an ox, and tllat without the assistance of a glass. 'rO observe tlais fact, ally person may try the experiment at pleasure, and svitness tlle same with the naked eye, even separating many layers and tlleir fibres with tlle point of a penknife. This regular structure of layers, and tlaose consisting of COncentric fibres, is unqvlestionably better adapted for the transmissioIi of the rays of ligllt, thall tlle irregular strtlcture of muscIes. It may, perhaps, be urged, that the heat to wllich I exposed the les may have changed its structure : ill anssver to tllat I observed it was moderate in degree, and regularly applied, of collsequence we may presume, as it appeared unifortuly opaqueS tllat eYery part svas alike acted upon; but by boiling the lens, where the heat is, without doubt, regularly appliedS we observe the same structure. Thirdly, that it is not frona any changes of the lens, and tllat this is not the tnost essential organ irl viewing obgects at different distances? we may also infer from this undeniable fact, that we can, in a great degree, do vithout it; as after couching or extraction, by which operations all its parts must be destroyed7 capsule, ciliary processes, musclesS &c. M. YOUNG asserts, from the authority of Dr. PORTERFIBI,D, that patierlts, after the operation of couchings have Ilot Dr. HOSACK'S Otseradtions on VSvion.gosthe poxver of acbommcodating tlle eye to the diSerellt distances of objectsX at pre!ent, I believe tlle contrary fact is almost universally asserted. Besides, if the orlaer posvers of tiie eye are instlficiellt to compellsate for the i(,.<s of this dense medium, the lensn a glass of tlae salne S}l?.pO azX^rers the purpose, and which certainly does not act by cllangllAw its figtlre. I grant their vision is not so perfect; but we l<ave otller circumstances upon which this can le more easily explailled; which NYill be particularly noticed under tlae laext head It rnay not be improper also to observe) that the specific gravity of the crystalline cotupared with tllat of tlle) vitreous 11umour, and of cotlsequence, its density and poner of reaction, is not so great as 11as been generally believed. Dr. BitYANT ROBINSON, by the hydrostatic balallce, found it to be rlearly as 11 to oo. I llave also examilled thern witll the instrtlment of Mr. SCHMEISSER, lately presented to the Royal Societyn and found the same result, of consequence the crystalline lens is not so essentially 1lecessary for vision as has been represiented s especially as it is also probable, that upon removi:g it, the place which it occupied is again filled by the vitreous humour, wllose power of refraction is nearly equal. At the samo time we cannot suppose the lens an unnecessary organ ill the eye, for nature produces # {' Et lete ob cataractam extracta vel deposita oculum tamen ad varlas distantias { videre, lot in nobili viro vicleo absque u}le experimento quo eam facultatem recupera¢' verit. Etsi enim tunc ob diminutas vires quz radios uniunt, aeger lente vitrea opus JS habet, eadem tamen lens in omni distantia SUÆiCit." HA L L E R, E1. P t3ys . <' La letltille cristalline n'est cependant point de premiere necessite pour la vision. ¢ Au50urd'hui, dans l'operation de 1a cataracte on l'exlleve entierement, et la vision {' n'en souffre POi[1t." DE LA METHERIE Vues Physiologiqlles. See also DE LA H1 RE, SIA M B B R G E R Physiolog. 206Dr. HOSACK'S Observalions on Yision.nothing in vain; but that it is not of that indispensable importallce, writers upon optics have taught us to believe. Fourthly, Mr. YOUNG tells us, he has not yet had an opporttlnity of examining the human crystalline a and grants, that i;rom the spherical form of it in the fishS such a change as he attributes to the lens in quadrupeds cannot take place in that class of animals. rrhe lenses which I have examined in the mallner--abovenzentiolzed svere the 11uman, those of the ex, the slleep, the rabbit, and the fish, and in all the same lamellated structure is observable; even in the spherical lens of the fish tllese lame11 are equally distinct, but without the smallest appearance of a musele. From these circtlmstances I cannot avoicl tlle conclusion, that they do llot exisf ; at tlle same tinae I am persuaded that Mr. YOUNG met svith appearances which he supposed were muscles; but I am satisfied he will readily acknowledge, that the examination of the crystalline lens in its visciS gltinous state, is not only attended with much clifficulty, but that the smallest change of-circumstances might lead to error, which I apprellend may, probably, have been the case ill that instance. Upoll examilling it after boiling, or exposing it to a gradual degree of heat before the fire, whesl it may be handled with freedom, he will readily observe (without a glass) the numerous lamells, and the arrangement of theit^ fibres, which I have described. Another opinion has been sanctioned by many respectable writers, of the effects of the ciliary processes in changing the sllape alld situation of the lens; some supposed it to possess fhe power of changing the figure of the crystalline, rendering Dr. HOSACK'S Observations on Mision.207it more or less convex $ others, that it removed it nearer to the cornea + and others, that it removed it nearer tlle retina.. The advocates for these difEerent opinions all agree in attributing these effects to a supposed muscularity of tlle ciliary processes. Of the structure of these processes HALLER observes, c; II1 c; omlli certe animalium genere processus citiares absque ulla ;; musculosa sunt fabrica, mere vasculosi vasculis serpentinis " percursi molli facti membrana.>' \7Vhich strucule, I believe, at present is universally admit:ted. But even supposing them muscular, such is their delicacy of structure, their attachtnent, and direction, that we callnot possibly conceive tllem adequate to the eSects ascrilJed to thens Benide, svllat we olxserved of the muscles of the letls itself, aiso applies to the processes, viz. that they may be destroyewl, as in couching or extraction, and yet the eye be capable of adapting itself to the diffierent distances of objects. For a more ftlll refutation of these opinions, see HALLER'3 large work. Tbe Situation, Strtgcturen and Action of the exernal Mscles.§ Upon carefully removing the eyelids, with their mllscles, we are presented with tlle muscles of tlle eye itselfS which are six in n-umber X four called recti, or straight, and two obliqtle t *DES CARTES, SCHEINERUS, BJlDIOUS, MOLLlNETTUS,SANC'rORIUS, JURINX f KE P L E R, Z { N N, PO R T E R F 1 R L D . t LA CHARIERE, PERRAUIT, HARTSOEKER, BR1SSEAU, and DECHAM. § For the accuracy oathe reprf sentation I have annesed (ill rrab. XVIII.) I cn vouch, havitsb been at much y>uoi)ls in t.he dissection; flem vvhich I llad the *)ainting taken by a most accurate hand, Mj S. ,DWAR155> a gerltleman well known for his aoilities in the plates of that admirable woiA, tAhe Flora Londollellsis. go8Dr. HOS AC K'S Observatioxs QZ Mision.so llamed frozn tlleir directiolz, (see Tab. XXJIII. fig. .) A A A A, the tendolls of tlle recti rnuscles, svhere they are inserted into the sclerotic coat, at the anterior part of tlle eye. 13, the superior oblique, or troclllearis, as sometimes called, frozn its passing tllrough the loop or pulley corlllected to the lonver allgle of tlle orbiter l1VtC'll in the os frontis; it passes *lnder the suerior rectus nuscle, and backwards to tlae posterior part of the eye, here it is iilserteel by a kroad flat tendon illtO the sclerotit coat. C, tEle inferior oblique, arisillg tendinous from tile edge of the orbiter process of tlle superior maxillary botle, passes strollg at1d fleslly over the inferior rectus, alld backnvards under the abtluctor to the posterior part of the eye, wllere it is cllsv itlselted by a broad flat tendon into the sclerotic c<)clt. I) D rs, tIle fat; ill which the eye is lodged. In fig. 2. sve lzave relnoved the bones forming tlle external side of the orbit, vitll a pol tion of tlae fat, by svllich we have a distillCt \iC+\tV of the abdtlctor. sN B C, tlaree of the recti muscles, arisilag frvtn tlle back part of the orbit, passing strong, blnoad, and fleslly over tlle ball of tlle eye, and inserted by flat, broad tendons illtO the sclerotic COcltv at its anterior part. D, tlae tendon of tlae superior oblique muscle. E, tlle inferior oblique, fig. . A, the abductor of the eye. B, the fleshy belly of the stlperior obliqlle! arising strong, tenditlous, and fleslay from tlae bacli part of the orbitX C, the optic llerve. D and E, the recti muscles. The use ascribeal to tllese diffierent muscles, is that of clazangillg the direction of tlle eye, to turn it upwards, downwards, laterally, or in any of the intermediate directions, accom modated either to the diffearent situation of objects, or to express the diffierellt passions of the mind, for which they are I)r. HOSACK'S Obseaovatio7ls O}Z MIsion.go9pecllliarly adapted. But is it incorlsistelat witll the gelleral laws of nature, or even with the animal oecorzomy, tllat fronl their combination they should have a diffierent actioll, anct -thus all additional use ? rO illustrate th-is we need only witness tlle actioll of almost any set of llauscles ill the body 7 for example, in lifting a weight, the combined action of the muscles of the arm, shoulder, and chest, is diASerent from the illdivodual action of either set, or of any illclividual muscle a or all itlstance nearer our purpose may be adduced, viz t;lae act-iOllS of the muscles of the cllest and belly, makitlg a compression UpOll the viscera, as ill tlae discharge of urille, foeces &c. But to questioaa tllis fact would be to qtlestion tlle iIlflu ence of the will in any one of tile alluost illfilaite variety of motions in the human bocly. I presu-me, therefore, it will be admitted tllat we have the same }3ower over these mllscles of the eye as of others, and I believe we are no less sensible of their colabined action, for examplea after viesn ing all object at the cilstance of hal-f a mile, if we direct our attelation to an object lout terl feet distance, every persoll must be sensible of some exertion > and if Sour attention be continued but for a short time, a degree of uneasio ness and evell pain ill the ball of the eye is experienced; if again we view an object within the focal distance, i. e. within six or seven inches, such is the intensity of the paill that the esertion can be corltinued but a very SllOft time, and we agai relieve zt by looking at the more clistant objects , this, I believe, must be the experierlce of every person, whose eyes are xn t}le natural and 11ealthy state, and caccordingly has bee observed by almost every writer upon optics. But the power of this c-o.mbination, evell from arlalogyg 1WDCCXC IVv E e Dr. HOSACK9S Obserzattons on ViStO%2!0appears too obvious to need further ll}ustration I shall therefore next endeavour to point out their precise action Suppming the eye in its horizontal natural-positxon; I see an obiect distinctly at the distance of six feetfi the picture of the cxbject falls exactly upon the retina; I now direct ny attentlon to an object at the distance of SIX illches, as nearly as possible in the sarrse line, altllough the rays froln the first object stlll fall upon my eye, while viewing the second it does not form a distinct picture on the retina, although at tlle same distance as before, which shews that the eye has undergone some changef for while I suas viewing the first object I did not see the second distinctly, althollgh in the same line : and now, vice versa, I see the second distinctly, and not the first; the rays from the firstn therefore, as they still fall upon the eyen must eithela meet before or lehind the retina; b}t we have shewn that the rays from the more distant object convene sooner than those from the less distant object, therefore the picture of the object at six feet falls before, whi]e the other forlus a distinct image upon the retina; bllt as my eye is still in the same place as at first, the retina has by some means or other been relnoved to a greater distance from the fore part of the eye to receive the picture of the nea^er object, agre>able to the principle page 198. From w}lch it is esident, that to see the less distant object either tlle retila should be removed to a greater distance, or tSae reftcting power of the lnedia should be increased: but I hope we h>ave shewn that the lens, which is the greatest refracting medium, has rlo power of changillg itself. Let us next inquire, if the external nusclesn tlle only remaining power the eye possesses are capable of producing those changes. With respect to the Dr. HOSACKSS Observations on ttisio*anterior part of t5;e eye, vve have seeh the situation of those museles c the recti .strong, broad, and flat, arising frotn the back part of the orbti ptissing orer tlle ball as over a pulley, and inserted btz broax1 l]lt tendons at tlle anterior part of the eye; the oblique illsertel toward the posterior part, also by broad flat tendons , whell they act jointly, the eye being in its llori zontal position, it is o?ovious, as every muscle in action COl1 tracts itself, the four rectii by their combination must necessarily make a compression upon the diSerent parts of tlle eyey and thus elongate its axis, wllile tlle oblique muscles serve to keep tlle eye in its proper direction and situation. For my own part, I have no more difficulty in collceiving of tllis com bination of those muscles than I have at present of the diffie rent flexors of lny fingers in holding lny pen. But oth-er corresponding effiects are also produced by tlais action; not only the distarlce between the anterior and posterior l?arts of the eye is increased, but of consequence the convexity of the corneay from its great elasticity, is also increased, and that in proportion to the degree of pressure, by which the rays of light pass ing through it are thence necessarily more converged. But another effect, and orle not inconsiderable, is, that by this elongation of the eye, the media, viz. the aquesus, crystalline« and vitreous 11umours through which the ratrs pass, are aIso lengthened, of consequerlce their powers of refraction are proportionably increased; all which correspond with th:e general principle. It may however be said, that as the four recti muscles are larger arld stronger than the two oblique, the acteon of the former would overcome that of the lattery and thus draw back the whole globe of the eye, but does not the fat at the posterior part of the orbit a}so afford a resistance E e X Dr. HOSACK2S Observatzonson Vision.212to the too great action of the rectl muscles, especially a!S it is of a firm consistence and the eye rests immediately upon it ? Admitting then that this ls the operation of the external muscles vjrhen in a state of contraction, it is also to lJe observeS, we have the same power of relaxing them, in proportion to the greater distance of tlle object, tlllt}l we arrive at the utmost exteat of lndolent vislons But, as a further testitnony of what 11as beell advanced, I had recourse to the following experilnent, which will sllew that the eye is easily compressible, and that the effects produced c-orrespond svith the principles I have erldeavoured to illustratee NVith the colnmon speculgm oculi I made a very moderate degree of pressure upon my eyey while directing my attentiotl to an object at the distatlce of about twenty yards; I saw it distinctly, as also tlle dstierent illtermediate objects; but endeavouring to look beyond it, every thing appeared confused I then increased the pressure considerably, in consequence of which I was enabled to see obgects distinctly at a much nearer than the natural focal distance; for exanlple, I held before ny eve at the (listance of about two inches, a printed book; in the natural state of the eye I could neither distinguish tlJe lines nor letters, but upon making pressure with the specue lum I was ellabled to distinguish both line.s and letters of the book with ease. Sucll then I conceive to-be the action and effiects of the external muscles, and which I apprehend will also apply ill exlulaining many other phanomena of vision, some of tnose it will not be improper at present briefly to notice. First, lnay not the action of tllose muscles have more orless effiect in producing the changes of vision which take place DrJ II3siteKss O5serv.8;ion5 On zision.in the dilSererlt periods of life ? At tlae same time the original conformation of the eye, the diminution of its humoars, and, probably, of the quantity of fat upon which the eye is lodged, are also to be tal<en in.o the account. But the external muscles becotning irregular a1zd debilitateel by old age, in common with every other tlluscle of the body, are not only incapable of compensatillg for these losses, but cannot even perform their wonted action, aIld t'nus necessarily laave collsiderable illfluence in impairing vision. Again, does not the habit of long sight so remarkable in sailors and sportsmen, who are much accustomed to view objects at a great distance, an(l that of short sight, as of watchmakers, sea1-cutters, &c. admit -of an easy soltltion upon this principle ? as we know of no part of the body so susceptibl) of an habitual action as the mtlscular fibre. Secoadly. How are we to account for the weaker action of one eye in the case of squinti^g ? 'that tllis is the fact llas been well ascertained; Dr. REID s UPVN this subject observes, that he has examined above twenty persons that squinted, and found in all of thern a defect iil the sight of one eye. PORTEREIELD and JURIN llave made the same observation. The distorted position of the eye has, I believey been generally attributed to the external nuseles; but rlo satisfactory reasoll has evcr been given wlly tlle eye, directed towards an object, does not see it distinctly at the same distance as with the other. 1*he state of the iris here cannot explain it, as it contracts and dilates irl comlmon with the other, nor can we suppose a-y muscles the lens might possess could have any * See his Inqulry into the Humall M;nd, page 322. I)r. HOSACK'S Observatigns on Visian.4effiect, as they are not at all conllected wich the nature of this disease. Bllt the action of the extertaal muscles, I apprehend, will afford us a satisfactory explanatiorl. \hetl the eye is turned from its natural directione for exampie, tonvards the inner catlthus, it is obvious ttlat the addaclor muscIt is shortened, and its antagollist, the abc;Ju tor, lengthelled; consequently, as the abductor Ilas rlot tlle same power of contractirlg itself wxth the adductor, wheil the eye is directeel tonvar4s an object, their power of action being dierent and irregular, tlle compression made upon the eye alld its humours must also be equally irregular, and therefore insufficient to produce tlle regular changes in the refra;ction and shape of the eye we lzave shewrl to be necessary in adapting it to tlie different disfances of objects The effects produced by making a partial pressure UpOll the eye with the finger, or speculum ac?lz; before noticed, would also appear to favour tl:zis explanatioll. Thirdlyw May it not in part be osving to the loss of this combined action of the external muscles, and the difficulty of recoveritzg it, that the operation of couching is sometimes unsuccessful, especially when the cataract has been of long standing ? This cannot be attributed to the iris, for it. perhaps, dilates and ^contracts as before: nor to the muscles of the lens, for they are removed; nor to the state of the nerve, for it is stiII sensibl@ to light; and yet the patient cannot see objects distirlotly, and it is not an uncommon circunlstaIlce, even when the operatiorl succeeds, thati the sight is slovvly and gradually redovered. Instances have occurred, Mr. ELLs * .See his System of Surgery. Dr. HOSACK'S Observations on tision.215observes, of the sight becoming gradually better for several months after the operation. When we have been long out of the habit of combining our muscles in almost any one action of life, as walking, dancing, or playing upon a musical instrument, rne in a great measure lose the combination, and find a difficulty in recoverng it, in proportion to the length of time we had been depr^red of it; but the individual action of each muscle remains as before. Thus, probably, with the muscles of the eye. A variety of facts of a similar llature must present themselves to every pers3n conversanf in the science of optics, which may admit of a similar encplallation. I have thus endealroured first to!p-oint out the limited action of the iris, and of consenuence the insufficiellcy of this action for explairling vision. Secondly, to prove tllat the Iens possesses no power of thanging its form to the different distances of objects. Thirdly, that to see objects at diffierent distancess corresponding changes of distarlce should be pro duced between tlle retina and the anterior part of the eye, as also in the refracting powers of the media through which the rays of light are to pass. Alad, fourthly, that the combined action of the external zzuscles is nol only capable of producing these effects, but that from their situation and structure they are also peculiarly adapted to produce them. Is it not thell consistent wii;h every principRe in the oeconomy of nature and of philosophy, seeillg the imperfectiorls of the principles which have hitherto been employel in explairling the phaenomena in question, to adopt the one before us, until (agreeable to one of the established rules ill philosophizing) IS)r. HOSACK}S Observations on YisS<szn.other phxnomena occur, by which it may be rendered either more general, or liable to objections ? I have now finished what was proposed. I have cleclined entering into an extensive view of the structure of the eye, or ally of the general principles of optics, as those sllbjects llave been more ably treated in tlle works already cited, and tllus would certainly have destroyed every claim to attention, which these fesr pages in tlaeir presetlt forln may possibly possess; and if I should be so fortunate as to succeed in establishing the principle I have proposed, for explairlillg the plz3enomena dependent upon this more important organ of our body (if any part possesses a pre-eminellce in nature), I also hope it may, itl abler hands, admit of some practical application, in alleviatillg the diseases to which its delicate organization so particularly exposes it.$ 4 Since the zabove page-s have been written, I have found, upon consulting some of the earliest writers, that the efl:ects of the external musoles did not altogether escape their attention; at the same time they had no distinct idea of thexr action: I must thereS3re disclaim the originalxty of the thought, although I had never met with it before the circumstances already noticed, of the insufficiency of the iris, had suggested it. If, however, I have succeeded in pointing out the precise action of those muscles, and its application to the general principles of vision, in svhich, I believe, I hate never been anticipatetl, it will be the height of my wisheso -PEiZo. Crzzzw . MD C CICIV: SoD. XVII. . >Z6.iX.XB CEn _ _ tT LBD'Ft9.3.-N BcHoD H { ) X G \ } -} > E Fb4. 5 o (Xt_< 4 -cM. B %: M .i'. 