XVI.< On the MW-otions of the Tendrils of Plants. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F. R. S. In a Letter to the Right H on Sir Joseph Banks, Ban. K. B. P. R. S. Read May 4, 18 12. MY DEAR SIR, HE motions of the tendrils of plants, and the efforts they apparently make to approach and attach themselves to contio guous objects, have been supposed by: many naturalists to originate in some degrees of sensation and perception: and though other naturalists have rejected this hypothesis, few, or no experiments have been made by them to ascertain with what propriety the various motions of tendrils, of different kinds, can be attributed to peculiarity of organization, and the operation of external causes. I was consequently induced, during the last sumnmer, to employ a considerable portion of time to watch the motions of the tendrils of different species of plants; and I have now the pleasure to address to you all account of the observations I was enabled to make. The plants selected were the Virginia creeper (the ampelopsis quinquefolia of MICHAUX,) the ivy, and the common vine and pea. A plant of the ampelopsis, which grew in a garden pot, was removed to a forcing house in the end of May, and a single shoot frorn it was made to grow perpendicularly upwlsards, by being supported in that position by a very slender bar of wood, to which it was bound. The plant was placed in the middle Mr. KNIGHT on the Motions, &C. _ of the house, and was fully exposed to the sun; -andevery object around it was removed far beyond the reach of its tendrils. Thus circumstanced, its tendrils, as soon as they were nearly full grown, all pointed towards the north, or backP w ii, which was distant about eight feet: but not meeting with any thing in that direction, to which they could attach themselves, they declined gradually towards the ground and uitiiiately attached themselves to the stem beneath, and the slender bar of wood. A plant of the same species was placed at the east end of the house, near the glass, and was in some measure skreened from the perpendicular light; when its tendrils pointed towards the west, or centre of the house, as those under the preceding circumistances had pointed towards the north andback wall. This plant was removed to the west end of the house, and exposed to the evening sun, being skreened, as in the preceding case, fromn the perpendicular light; and its tendrils, within a few hours changed their direction, and again pointed to the centre of the house, which was partially covered with vines. This plant was then removed to the centre of the house, and fully exposed to theperpendicular light, and to; the sun; and a piece of dark-coloured pa per was placed upono one side of it just within the reach of its tendrils; Cand to this substance they soon appeared to lbe strongly attracted,. The paper was then placed upon the opposite side, under Simnlar circumstances, and there it was soon followed by the tendrils. It was then removed, and a piece of plate, glass was substituted; but to this substance the tendrils did not inodicate any disposition to approach. The position of the glass was theta changed, and care was taken to adjust its surf-ace to the varying 316 iMr. KNIGHT on the Moions position of the sun, so that the light reflected might continue to strike thle tendrils; which then receded from the glass, and appeared to be strongly repulsed by it.; The tendrils of the ampelopsis very closely resemble those of the vine, in their internal organization, and in] originating from the alburnous substance of the plant; and in being, under certain circumstances, convertible into fruit stalks. The claws, or claspers, of the ivy, to experiments upon which I shall now proceed, appear to be cortical protrusions only; b1Ut to be capable (I have reason to believe) of becoming perfect roots, under favourable circumstances. Experiments, in every respect very nearly similar to the preceding, were made upon this plant; but I found it necessary to place the different substances, to which I proposed that the claws should attempt to attach themselves, almost in contact with the stems of the plants. I observed that the claws of this plant evaded the light, just as the tendrils of the ampelopsis had done; and that they sprang only from such parts of the stems as were fully, or partially, shaded. A seedling plant of the leach tree, and one of the ampelopsis and ivy, were placed nearly in the centre of the house, and under similar circumstances; except that supports, formed of very slender bars :of wood, about four inches high, were applied to the ampelopsis, and ivy. The peach tree continued to grow nearly perpendicularly, with a slight inclination towards the front and south side of the house, whilst the stems of the ampelopsis and ivy, as soon as they exceeded the height of their supports, inclined many points fiom the perpendicular line, in the opposite direction. It appears therefore that not only the tendrils and claws of of the Tendrils f Plants. these creeping dependent plants but that their stems also, are made to recede from light, and to press against the opake bodies, which nature intended to support and protect them. M. DECANDOLE, I believe, first observed that the succulent shoots of trees and herbaceous plants, which do not depend upon others for support, are bent towards the point from which they receive light, by the contraction of the cellular substance of their bark, upon that side, and I believe his opinion to be perfectly well founded. The operation of light upon the tendrils and stems of the ampelopsis and ivy appears to produce diametrically opposite efflects, and to occasion an extension of the cellular bark, wherever that is exposed to its influence; and this circumstance affords, I think, a satisfactory explanation why these plants appear to seek and approach contiguous opake objects, just as they would do, if they were conscious of their own feebleness, and of power in the objects, to which they approach, to afford them support and protection. The tendril of the vine, as I have, already stated, is internally similar to that of the ampelopsis, though its external form, and mode of attaching itself, by twining round any slender body, are very different. Some young plants of this species, which had been raised in pots in the preceding year,and had been headed down to a single bud, were placedin a forcing-house, with the plants I have already mentioned; and the shoots from these were bound to slender bars of wood, and trained perpendicularly upwards. Their tendrils, like those of the ampelopsis, when first emitted, pointed upwards; but they gradually formed an increasing angle with the stems, and ultimately pointed perpendicularly downwards;d no object MDcccXII. T t 218 Mr. KNIGHT on the Motions having presented itself to whichthey could attach themselves. Other plants of the vine, under similar circumstances were trained. horizontally; when their tendrils gradually descended beneath their stems, with which they ultimately stood very nearly at right angles. A third set of plants were trained almost perpendicularly downwards; but with an inclination of a few degrees towards the north and the tendrils of these permanently retained very nearly their first position, relatively to their stems; whence it appears that these organs, like the tendrils of the ampelopsis, and the claws of the ivy, are to a great extent under the control of light. A few other plants of the same species were trained in each of the preceding methods; but proper objects were placed, in different situations, near them, with which their tendrils might come into contact; and I was by these means afforded an op. portunity of observing, with accuracy, the difference between the motions of these and those of the ampelopsis, under similar circumstances. The latter almost immediately receded from light, by whatever means that was made to operate upon them; and they did not subsequently shew any disposition to approach the points, from which they once receded. The tendrils of the vine, on the contrary, varied their positions in every period of the day, and after, returned again during the night to the situations they had occupied in the preceding morning ; and they did not so immediately, or so regularly, bend towards the shade of contiguous objects. But as the tendrils of this plant,-like those? of thee ampelopsis, spring alternately from each side of the stem, and as one point only in three is withof the Tendtils of Plants. 319 out a tendril, and as each tendril separates into two divisions they do not often {fail to come into contact with any -object within their reach; and the effects of contact upon the tendril are almost immediately visible. It is made to bend towards the body it touches, and, if that body be slender, to attach -itself firmly by twining round it, in obedience to causes which I shall endeavour to point out. The tendril of the vine, in its internal organization, isapparently similar to the young succulent shoot, and leaf-stalk, of the same plant; and it is as abundantly provided with vessels, or passages, for the sap; alod I have proved that it is alike capable of feeding a succulent shoot, or a leaf, when grafted upon it. It appears therefore, I conceive, not :im probable, that a considerable quantity -of the moving fluid of the plant passes through its tendrils; and that there is a close connection between its vascular structure and its motions. I have proved in the Philosophical Transactions of 18o6, that centrifugal force, by operating upon the elongating plumules of germinating seeds, occasions an increased growth and extension upon the external sides of the young stems, and that gravitation produces correspondent effects; probably by occasioning the presence of a larger portion of the fluid organizable matter of the plant upon the one side, than upon the other. The external pressure of any body upon one side of a tendril will probably drive this fluid from one side of the tendril, which will consequently contract, to the opposite side, which will expand; and the tendril will thence be compelled to bend round a slender bar of wood or nletal, just as the stems of germinating seeds are made to bend upwards, and to raise the cotyledons out of the ground; and in support of this T t a '320 Mr. KNIGHT on the Motions, &c. conclusion I shall observe, that the sides of the tendrils, where in contact with the substance they embraced, were compressed and flattened. The actions of the tendrils of the pea were so perfectly similar to those of the vine, when they came into contact with any body, that I need not trouble you with the observations I made upon that plant. An increased extension of the cellular substance of the bark upon one side of the tendrils, and a core respondent contraction upon the opposite side, occasioned by the operation of light, or the partial pressure of a body in contact, appeared in every case, which has come under my observation, the obvious cause of the motions of tendrils; and therefore, in conformity with the conclusions I drew in my last memoir, respecting the growth of roots, I shall venture to infer, that they are the result of pure necessity only, unirn fluenced by any degrees of sensation or intellectual powers. I am, my dear Sir, with much regard, &c. THO. ANDREW KNIGHT. Downton, April 27, 1812. To the Right Hon. Sir JosEPH BANKS, Bart. K. B. 