A Description of certain Stones figured like Plants, and by some Observing men esteemed to be Plants petrisied: Communicated to the Publisher, by the same Mr. Lister, from York Novemb. 4th. 1673. SIR, IN this paper I send you an Account of some of the Parts of certain Stone figured like Plants; which Argicola (5~ Fossilium)calls Trochitae, and the compound ones Entrochi; we in English, St. Cutberds beads. Agricola will have them akin for substance to the Lapides Judaici; and, indeed, these are of an opaque and dark coloured Sparr; though I have of them from some parts of England of a white Sparr or Cawke, as our Miners call it: They all break like Flint, polished and shining. Put into Vinegar (saith he) they buble: Atque etiam repeC c c c c c c 2 ritur (6182) ritur interdum qui se tanquam Astroites moveat de loco.But this is true of all Fossils of what figure so ever, that Vinegar will corrode and dissolve as a Menstruum; provided they be broken into indifferent small grains,and the bottom of the Vessel hinder not, they will be moved from place to place by it. The figure of the Trochitae is cylindrical,the outmost round or Circle (we speak of one single joynt, which Agricola calls Trochites) is in general smooth, both the flat-sides are thick drawn with fine and small rayes, from a certain hole in the middle to the circumference. From the shooting of these rayes like Antimonie, and because a large Peice of this Stone of many joynts resembles the bole of a Tree, Aldrovandus (who yet elsewhere discourses of this Stone, after Agricola and Gesner, under the name of Trochitae and Entrochi) not improperly terms it (Musaei Metallici lib. 1. pag. 188.) Stelechites stibiifacie; and there gives us a true figure of it. Two, three, or more of these Trochitae joyned together, make up that other Stone, which he calls Entrochos. The Trochitae or single joynts are so set together, that the Rayes of the one enter into the others Furrows, as in the Sutures of the skull. Hitherto we agree to what Agricola, Gesner, Boetius, Aldrovandus and Wormius have said of them: We proceed upon our own Observations, which go much further. The Places where we find them very plentifully, are certain Scarrs in Braughton and Stock, little Villages in Craven. The Stones of the abovesaid described Figure, as many as have yet come to my hands from those places, have afforded us these Particulars. As to their bigness, I never yet met with any much above two inches about; others there are as small as the smallest pinn, and of all magnitudes betwixt those proportions. They are all broken bodies; some shorter Pieces,some longer, and some of them, indeed, Trochitae, that is, but single joynts. I never found one intire piece much above two inches long, and that very rarely too; in some of which long pieces, I have reckned about 30 joynts. And as they are all broken bodies, so are they sound dejected and lying consusedly in the Rock, which in some places, where they are to be had, is as hard as Marble, in other places soft and shelly (as they call it,) that is, rotten and perished with the wet and air. And (6183) And though in some places they are but sprinkled here and there in the Rock, yet there are whole bedds of Rock of vast extent, which are made up for the most part of these, and other figured Stones, as Bivalve, Serpentine, Turbinate, &c. as at Braughton. As to the injuries they have received in their removal from the natural posture, if not place of their growth and formation, they are manifest. For, besides their being all broken bodies, we find many of them depressed and crushed, as if the joynt of a hollow Cave should be trod under foot: These Crushes being also real Cracks as of a stone or glass. Again these stones consisting of many vertebrae or joynts, they are many of them strangely dislocated; sometimes two, three, or more of the joynts in a Piece are slipped and out of order or rank, and sometimes a whole series of joynts, as when a pack of Crown pieces leans obliquely upon a Table. Further, others I have that are twisted like a Cord, if this possibly may be reckoned amongst the injuries. Lastly, some have their joynts, indeed, even and in file, but are yet stuffed with a forrain matter, as when bricks are layed in morter. There is great variety as to the thickness of the Trochitae or single joynts: some are so thin, that they are scarce the full of the 24th. part of an inch; others are a full quarter of an inch thick; of these latter I only found at Stock: These, I say, are the extream proportions, as far as my Observations have yet gone; there are joynts of all measures betwixt those two Extreams. This is true in divers Pieces, for mostly the joynts are of an equal thickness in one and the same Piece. Note, that there are slender and small Entrochi or Pieces, which have as thick joynts, as the biggest and fairest Pieces. There is also some difference in the seames or closing of the joynts: Some are but seemingly joynted; which appears by this, that if they be eaten down a while in distilled vinegar, the seeming Suturs will vanish, as in some I had out of Stafford. shire, from about Beresford upon the Dove: Others and all here at Braughton and Stock are really joynted, and the Sutures indented; which indentures being from the terminating of the rayes, they are more fair or large, according to the difference of the rayes, but even, equal, and regular. We (6184) We have said, that generally the outmost Circle of each joynt is flat and smooth;yet are there many other differences to be noted as to that Part: Very probably because they are Parts or Pieces of different Species of rock-Plants. 1. That the smooth-joynted (to say no more of them here) are of different thicknesses as to the joynts. 2. On some Entrochi betwixt Suture and Suture in the middle of each joynt, are certain Knots in a Circle; the joynts thus distinguished are very deep and large, and are very frequent at Stock. 3. There are likewise of these with a circle of knots, which have many knots besides upon each joynt and look rugged. 4. Some with much thinner joynts, which yet have a Circle of knots in the middle of each joynt; and this also looks as though it was all over knotted, and these are found at Braughton only, as far as I know. 5. As some have but one Circle of knots,others are knotted all over the joynt and rough; so are there some other,which have a Circle of larger knots in the middle of each joynt,and a circle of lesser on each side close adjoyning to the border or verge of the Suture.This is huge pretty,and they are found at Stock. 6. Others betwixt Suture and Suture in the middle of each joynt rise with a circular edge. 7. A smooth Entrochos with a large or much risen edg on the middle of one of the joynts, and a much smaller on the middle of an other joynt and that alternatively. 8. The same alternate difference, the joynts only much rounder and blunt, and here the joynts are visibly one thicker than the other. 9. The same with alternate edges knotted. 10. A double edg in the middle of every joynt; this makes the joynts look as though they were exceeding thin and numerous, but indeed they are not so. 11. A double edg in the middle of every joynt knotted by intervals, or as it were serrate edges. And these are some of the differences, that I have at present been able to make out. Some of the Pieces of most, if not all, of the differences of these Entrochi are ramous, having (6185) ving lesser branches deduced from the greater,and that without order. Some have but few branches on a Piece; others I find so thick of branches, that they resemble a ragged Staff. These Branches are deep inserted within the stemm, and by being separated, leave great holes in the sides of it. The rayes in the joynts of the branches run cross to the rayes of the stemm. On thick stemms are sometimes very small branches, but mostly the bigger the stemm, the thicker the branches. Some of these branches are branched again: Yet I find not any of them above one inch intire, and yet adhering and inserted into its stock or bole, and for the most part not above a joynt or two. The Branches are known from the stemm,by being a little crooked and something tapering or Conic. We meet with but few Pieces (besides the branches) that are not exactly Cylindrical, setting a side the injuries above mentioned, that is, that are not as thick at one end as at the other, and perfectly round, not withstanding that we said,that there are of them of all degrees of magnitude within the proportions above-named. And, as we said, it is rare to meet with a Piece, that is not exactly cylindrical; so amongst those few that are not so,some we find tapering at both Ends, and much swelled in the middle. And this is the other Species of this Stone, according to the division of Agricola: Entrochi duae sunt Species; aut enim aequaliter teres est; aut teres quidem, sed pars ejus media tumet, utrumque caput angustius est. But this must not be understood, as though both ends were compleat; for, these are but broken Pieces,as the rest, more swelled in the middle. Others there are figured like a kind of Fruit, or Lapis Judaicus; but these also are truly Entrochi, and are joynted notwithstanding this shape. Upon a small Stalk of two or three joynts is suddainly raised an Oval bottom, broken off also at both ends. To these we shall add what seems to have been summitates or fastigia; long and slender Pieces with a little jointed button, hollow on the very top; which top seems not to have been divided or broken off frow any thing else. I must not forget,that as they are hollow in the middle (and so it was easy to string them like beads, which gave occasion to (6186) to the English name;) so these hollows are sometimes filled with earth,and sometimes an other Entrochos is inclosed like a pair of screws, and which is (as it were) pith to the other. Of these inward Entrochi Some I have which are transparent. Note,that the hollows or piths are of different bores,but most are round.And yet there are of them in great plenty at Stock whose hollow in the middle is in the elegant fashion of a Cinquefoil; and the rayes of the joynts of these Entrochi are much deeper and fewer in number,than of any other yet observed by me. These also are smooth-joynted.This is most surprising, and I know not any Vegetable,whose Pith is perforate in such a manner. Lastly we in these Rocks find certain rude Stones,of the bigness of Walnuts, which have many impressions of Trochitae upon them,as though they had been the roots of them.And when these have been a little cleansed in Vinegar, these impressions appear more than casual; for,the substance that covers them (if not the Stones themselves) is Sparr, and the impressions are round holes with rayes, like those holes, which we said above the Branches made in the sides of the stock, when broken out from them. Agricola makes mention of these also: Saepenumero lapis informis reperitur un a cum Trochite & Entrocho, Rotae in se continens figuram; quae in eo quasi quaedam radix, Trochitis jam abruptis, remansit. Although there are indeed certain lapides informes, which may with some colour be thought to have been the Roots, from whence some Entrochi have been broken;yet are not all such lumps of Stone, on which we discern the Vestigia of Entrochi to be called lapides informes, some of them being most elegantly figured. One or two of them, which I found intire and compleat at Stock, amongst very many others strangely shattered and defaced, I shall describe to you. 1. The first is in the fashion of a Pine Apple or Cone, with a hollow bottom, about the half of an inch deep, and as much over at the bottom: On the very Top is the round figure of an Entrochos broken off;round about the bottom or basis are five single feet at equal distances, in the figure of Crescents. This Stone is incrustate or made up of angular Places; viz. the bottom is composed of five plates, which we call Feet; the middle (6187) dle of the Stone of five other plates, all of a Sexangular figure; and the Top Stone. All other plates are smooth on the outside. 2. The second is a large Stone of the bigness of a Walnut, much after the pyramidal fashion of the other; the bottom convex, about one inch and a quarter over; on the top is the lively impression of an Entrochos broken off, or rather a Trochites yet remaining; round the Basis are five double points or Feet at equal distances, all broken off and somewhat in the figure of Crescents. This Stone also is incrustate or covered with Sex-angular plates, which are rough. I can compare the incrustating of these stones to nothing so well, as to the skins of the Piscis Triangularis, which Margravius describes: Cujus Cutis (nam caret squamis) figuris Trigonis, tetragonis, pentagonis,hexagonisqae mire distinguitur & notatur. Of these figured plates I find so great variety in the Rocks, both as to the number of Angles and other beautiful Ornaments, that it has caused in me great admiration. And it will not be amiss, since they manifestly belong,as parts, to the above described stones, to enumerate them, at least, as many as have yet come to my hands. Some of these angular plates, I said,are yet visible in their natural place and posture in the described stones:But I find the greatest part of them broken up and heaped together in great confusion in the Rocks. And it will be as hard to set them together, as to skill to tell you, what the figure of an intire Entrochos (or the stone to which all the above described parts seem to belong) is: But we will omit no part, that we can justly say belongs unto it. We shall begin with Pentagonous plates. 1. The first is a Pentagonous Stone, as broad as my thumbnail (we speak of the fairest of them,) hollow on the one side, like a Dish; convex on the other side, where are certain eminent knots,about the bigness of small pinn-heads, set in a kind of square order: This plate is somewhat thinn at the edges and yet blunt. 2. The second is also Pentagonous,and not much narrower than the other: It is, indeed, somewhat convex above,but not hollow underneath; it is smooth on both sides, at least without those eminent knots, which are so remarkable in the other D d d d d d d plate: (6188) plate: The edges of these are as thinn as of a knife,and sharp. 3. The third PentagonousP ate is not near so broad,as either of the former;yet one I found amongst a 100 of this sort,that is full as large as any of the above described: These are all convex on the one side and somewhat hollow on the other; thick edged; one of the 5 sides only is indented; the indented side is ever the thinnest, and the stone is most sloped towards that side, Note, that there are many amongst these last indented sorts of plates, which are channelled on the concave side and other wise notched. 4. All these Pentagonous plates are to be found plentifully at Braughton or Stock. But I shall not omit in this place the mentioning of one, I by chance espied amongst certain figured Stons, which I had out of the Quarrie near Wansford-bridg in Northamptonshire, and it probably belongs to these kind of plates I am now in hand with. It has one of the five sides thick indented; the convex part has in the middle a raised Umbo, like some antient shields, and round about the sides a list of smaller Studds. We have since had some plates muck like this from Bugthorp under the Woolds in Yorkshire. We proceed to remarke some differences in the sex-angular plates. 5. All these stones are but small, save here and there one: The first of them is but little hollow on the one side, and convex on the other; having the convex-side most elegantly wrought with raised or embossed work, that is, with an equilateral triangle bestriding each Corner, and a single right line in the midst; or, if you will, two Triangles one within another. These we found at Braughton-sear only. 6. That Plate-stone which is most common in these Rocks, there being a 1000 of these to be found for one of the other, is sexangular, a little hollow on the one side and convex on the other: They are for the most part smooth on the convex side or seabrous only;some are much thicker than others; some being as thick as broad, but most are Plate-like; the sides are very unequal, as in Crystals; sometimes five broader sides and one very small; again two sides broad and four much narrower, and infinite other differences as to the inequality of sides. Words are but the arbitrary symboles of things, and perhaps (6189) haps I have not used them to the best advantage. Good Design (and such is that I send you, done by that ingenious young Gentleman and excellent Artist, my very good friend, Mr. William Lodge,) or the things themselves, which I have all by me, would make these particulars much more intelligible and plain to you. The Explication of the Figures. See Tab. I. 1. A Trochites or single joynt with very fine and small Rayes. 2. A Trochites or single joynt with the pith bored through, in the fashion of cinquefoil. 3. A Trochites or single joynt, of an Oval figure, the rayes scarce apparent and a very small point in the place of the Pith. 4. A single joynt of two of a middle size, with the pith exceeding large. 5. A pack of single joynts dislocated, and yet adhering in their natural order. 6. A very long Entrochos or a piece of many smooth joynts with the branches broken off. 7. An Entrochos with smooth joynts not branched. 8. The biggest Entrochos I have yet seen, with stumps of branches. 9. A smooth Entrochos with very thin and numerous joynts. 10. The largest or deepest joynted Entrochos, save the oval one noted in the third figure. 11. An Entrochos with very many disorderly knots in each joynt. 12. An Entrochos with only one single Circle of knots in the middle of each joynt. 13. An Entrochos with three Circles of knots. 14. A smooth Entrochos, with a large and much risen edge in the middle of each joynt. 15. Alternate joynts round or blunt. 16. A double edg in the middle of each joynt. 17. Alternate joynts, edged. 18. 19. 20. Certain other differences noted in the Paper, but not perfectly exprest in the Design. 21. An Entrochos with a branch of a good length. D d d d d 22. A (6190) 22. A branch of an Entrochos knocked off. 23. An Entrochos fruit-like. 24. A fastigium or Summitas. 25. A radix of an Entrochos in Prospective: where A is a joynt or Trochites yet remaining, whence an Entrochos was broken off. C. E. F. D. are four of the double feet; the 5th. being hid. 26. The same radix to be seen at the best advantage: A the Trochites or basis: C.B.D.E.F. the five double Feet. Note also the sex-angular rough plates, which incrustate the stone or cover it all over. 27. A smaller Radix with smooth plates and five single Feet: H. the top stone. I. one of the five Feet. K. one of the five angular plates which incrustate the middle of the stone. G. the basts, Also the same stone in prospective. G.the same with the hollow bottom upwards. Figures of Plates supposed to incrustate divers roots. 28. A pentagonous plate knotted. 29. A thinn edged smooth pentagonous plate. 30. An indented pentagonous plate. 31. The Northamptonshire pentagonous plate. 32. A large pentagonous smooth plate. 33. An hexagonous plate imbossed with angles. 34. An hexagonous plate, as deep as broad. 35. 37. Odd figured plates. 36. A quadrangular plate ribbed and indented. So far this Letter; which was soon after followed by another, containing the Learned Mr. Ray's annotations upon the same, which were these: I received (faith Mr. Ray) your accurate Observations about St.Cutberds beads. A strange thing it seems to me, that the broken pieces of those bodies, which you find, I mean, of the main stems, should be of equal bigness from the top to the bottom, and not at all tapering, if they be indeed the bodies of Rock-plants. There are found in Maltha certain stones, called St.Pauls Batoons, which I suppose were originally a sort of Rock-plants,like small snagged sticks,but without any joints; the trunks whereof diminish according to the propor(6191) proportion of other plants after the putting forth of their branches. Those Roots,that you have observed,are a good argument, that these Stones were originally pieces of Vegetables. Wonderful it is,that they should be all broken, and not one plant found remaining entire: And no less wonderful,that there should not at this day be found the like vegetables growing upon the Sub-marine rocks; unless we will suppose them to grow at great depths under water. And who knows but there may be such bodies growing on the rocks at this day, and that the Fishers for Coral may find of them; tho being of no use they neglect and cast them away. Certain it is,there is a sort of Coral jointed. Tab 1 6 Trans No 100 8 7 9 12 5 13 14 1 10 11 15 2 3 4 26 B 27 H 25 A A C I 24 22 23 D 10 17 18 21 K C 19 20 D G G F F E E 28 30 35 29 32 33 36 37 31 34 