(2049) An Extract of another Letter written by the same, concerning two Experiments made for finding another Passage of the Urine, besides the known one; as also some Circumstances relating to the precedent Invention of making Seawater potable. -HAving been, not long since, employed in searching after the Passage of the Urine * in Animals, I made, for that purpose, a Dog drink a good quantity of water, and thereupon caused his Ureters to be well tyed about, and emptied his bladder. After two hours I found the Bladder empty, and the Ureters were not tumid above the Ligature. Being surprised thereat, I believed, that the cause might be the too much cooling of the inward parts, that had all this while been exposed to the Air; the Section having been made Cross-wife, afrer the ordinary manner. To avoid this inconvenience, I thus reiterated the Experiment upon another Dog; I caused a small opening to be made on each side, sufficient to find and to tye the Ureters, and to squeese the Urine out of the Bladder, by pressing it with ones hand. This done, I made these Openings to be sow'd up again; and then having made the Dog drink good store of water, I left him for near three hours in the least violent posture that his Ligatures would permit. Afterwards having open'd both the holes, and the Bladder being pressed with the hand, there issued out of it a pretty quantity of Urine, and the Ureters seemed to be a little swelled above the Ligature. This Operation was made with great exactness; but yet as it is of importance for discovering the way of the Urine, I would have repeated it often, if I had not been obliged hastily to come away from the place where I then was. I am not now at leisure to try it again; but I exhort you, Sir, to engage some of your best Anatomists, among other researches to employ themselves in this Inquiry. M m 2 Monsieur * What is here more largely related, was briefly intimated in Num.65.p.2084. (2050) Monsieur Hauton maintains, that his distill'd Sea-water (whereof I formerly wrote to you the processe) is altogether salubrious. He proveth it first from Experience, it having been given to Men and Beasts without any ill effect at all upon them. Secondly, from Reason, grounded on this, that that peculiar Earth, heretofore made mention of, being mixed with the distilled Water, blunts the points of the Volatil Spirits of the Salt, and serveth them for sheaths, if I may so speak, taking away their force and maligne sharpness, &c. St. Germain, October 30. 1670. 