Inquiries For Hungary and Transylvania. In prosecution of the Engagement, published Numb. 23. p. 414, 422. we now subjoyn some other Inquiries, and first these, that were very lately recommended to a studious and inquisitive Transylvanian, who from London returned to his Countrey, and promised to procure good Answers to the following particulars, Viz. 1. VVHat is observable in Hungary, Transylvania, and the Neighbouring parts, as to Minerals, Springs, Warm Baths, Earths, Quarries, Mettals, & c. (Reference was here given to the Inquiries concerning Mines, printed Num. 19.) 2. Particularly, To inquire into the several sorts of Antimony, or Antimony-core, to be found in Hungaria; and to inform us of the several places, whence they are digged, to the end, that they may be sent for: P p p 2 3. To (468) 3. To inquire, where the best Hungarian Vitriol is to be found, and the Cinnabaris nativa? 4. To give us a true account of the right Gold-and Silver-Earthor Ore, said to be found at Cranach in Hungary; whence the Gold is called Cranach-Gold, first lighted upon by the care of the Emperour Rudolphus, and chyinically wrought by his order and inspection? 5. To inquire after, and send over some of that kind of Vitriol, which by credible persons is affirmed to be found chrystallized in Transylvania: As also, after the Vitriol of Tyrol, said to yield Gold. 6. To inform us of the Salt-pits in Transylvania, said to yield two sorts of perfect Salt, the one being a Sal Gemmae, the other, a common Table-Salt. To observe how deep these Salt-mines lie from the surface of the Ground? How deep they are digg'd hitherto; and what Damps are met with in them, &c? 7. To inquire after the Veins of Gold and Quick-silver at Crem nitz in Hungary; and the Vein of Silver at Schemnitz in the same Kingdom: And to send over some of the best Ores of them? 8. To inquire, Whether the Waters of the Thermae, that pass by Schemnitz, depose a certain sediment, which in time turns into a yellow Stone? 9. Whether in the Mines of Gold, Silver, Copper, Iron, Lead, in Hungary, there be generally found Quick-silver and Sulphur? 10. Whether it be true, that in the Copper-Mines of the place called Herren-ground in Hungary, there be found no Quick-silver at all? 11. Whether it be true, that in some parts of the Upper Hungary, the Ores of Copper, Iron, and Lead, be sometimes so commixed, that there is often foun in the upper part of the Concrete,matter of Iron; in the midst, matter of Copper, and in the lowermost, Lead? And that in other places of the same Country, Copperish fluors are mixed with Leaden ones? 12. Whe(469) 12. Whether it be true, what Athan. Kircher writes from Relation, That the Ductus's of Mettals do sometimes run North and South, sometimes Cross-wayes? 13. Whether there be in Hungary such a River, as is mentioned in Busbekius, whose water is so hot, and which is yet so ful of Fish, that he faith, one would expect, that all the Fish drawn thence, would come out boyled? 14. Whether there be Springs about Buda or Alba Regalis, that rise at the bottom of the River so hot, that those who go to bathe, dare not put their feet so low as the Sand, for fear of having them parboyled? 15. Whether there be in Hungary an Avernus, that exhaleth almost alwayes such poysonous Steams, that Birds flying over it, do often-times fall down, either stupified, or quite dead? 16. Whether the Iron, that is said to be turned into Copper, by the Vitriolate Springs at Cremnitz or Smolnitz in Hungary, do after that Transmutation or Precipitation, contain a pretty deal of Gold? 17. Whether the Depth of the Gold-Mines of Hungary be 2400 feet? 18. Whether they find Trees, or any other Bodies in the solid Salt of their Salt-Mines. 19. Whether there be a great Lake in Moravia, whence of late years all the Waters were by accident drawn away, though formerly carrying Boats, and full of Fish? 30. Whether it be true, what is affirmed by Authors, That in some parts of Hungary near the Gold-Mines, the Leaves of the Trees have their lower superficies, if not their upper also, gilded over with yellowish Exhalations? 21. What is the way, said to be used in Austria and Hungary, of extracting the perfect Mettals out of their Minera's without Lead; performed by casting a Powder upon the Minera, which makes a quick and advantageous separation; Sulphur being supposed to be an Ingredient of it? Inquiries (470) Inquiries For AEgypt, by Thomas Henshaw Esq; 1. WHether it rain there at any time, and if so, what time of the Year? Whether Rain make the Air wholsom, or pestilential, or otherwise unhealthful? 2. To consider the Niter that is commonly sold there, and what affinity there is betwixt that, and our common Saltpeeter: to try by dissolving it in warm water, filtring it well, then boyling almost half away, and putting the remainder in an earthen Pan, and setting it in a cool place for two dayes, to see whether it will shoot into Chrystals of Peeter. To send some quantity of it into Europe. 3. Whether the Earth of AEgypt, adjoyning to the River Nilus, preserv'd and weigh'd daily, keeps the same weight, till the 17th of June,and then grows daily heavier with the increase of the River? 4. Whether, if the Plague be never so great before,yet on the first day of the Nile's increase, it not only increaseth,but absolutely ceaseth, not one dying of it after? 5. To inquire particularly into the manner of Hatching Eggs in AEgypt; How the Camel-dung is prepar'd, wherein they are laid? how often the Eggs are turn'd? how cover'd? Whether they hatch in Twenty one dayes, as they do with us under a Hen? Whether the Chickens be as perfect as ours? If imperfect, Whether that may not happen to them by rough handling, while they are remov'd, being very tender,out of the place where they are hatch'd? To take the design of the manner, how by the Pipes the heat is convey'd into several Rooms. How they treat them betwixt the time of their hatching, and taking away by the Owners? Whether they do not also use to hatch Eggs under Hens? 6. To (471) 6. To inquire, Whether the great quantity of Yellow Amber, which is sold at Cairo, be by reason that it is the Gum of a certain Tree growing in AEgypt, or AEthiopia, as Bellonius after Diodorus Siculus affirms? And whether, besides several Animals that are found inclosed in that Amber, there is very frequently some part of the Bark of a Tree found sticking to it? 7. To inquire of a certain Tree, growing not far from Cairo, which bears a Fruit stuffed with Wooll, that is finer than Silk, of which the Arabs make Linnen that is softer than Silk, and whiter than Cotton? 8. Whether Crocodiles, that are found to be sometimes Thirty foot long, are hatched of an Egge, no bigger than a Turkeys? 9. Whether the Ichneumon, or AEgyptian Water-Rat can kill a Crocodile, by skipping into his Mouth, and gnawing his way out, as Old Writers affirm? 10. Whether it be true, That the Arabs can Charm the Crocodiles; or, Whether there be on the Nile's side any Talismans, or Constellated Figures, beyond which the Crocodiles cannot pass, as some would make us believe? 11. To inquire at Cairo for several Drogues, which are common there, and much in use, yet not brought into Europe, as Acacia, Calamus Odoratus, Amomum, Costus, Ben Album, and divers such others. 12. Whether the Female Palm-Tree be not fruitful, unless she grow by the Male, as some would bear us in hand? 13. To inquire, Whether the Appearance of the Leggs and Arms of Men, related to stand out of the ground, to a great number, at a place five Miles from Cairo, on Good-Friday, do still continue? And how that Imposture is performed? 14. Whether Children born there in the Eighth Month, do usually (472) usually live, contrary to what is believed to happen in other Countries? 15. To take an Account of the Wooden Locks there, which are said to be made with as great Art, as those of Iron, with us. 16. To observe the Course of the Waters, both of the Mediterranean, and the Red-Sea? Inquiries For Guiny, by Abraham Hill Esq; 1. VV Hether the River Niger overflows the Countrey yearly, like Nilus? 2. Whether the Rain, when it falls, be often very hot, rotting the Cloaths, if not presently dryed, and breeding Worms in them? 3. Whether the Gold there, be of very different fineness, and that which is uppermost in the Mine be the finest? 4. Whether the Palm affords them Wine, Oyl, Vinegar, Soap, Bread; and out of the Leaves they pick Threds, making thereof very curious Works? 5. Whether they have, besides their Palm-Wine, a Drink made of Grain, like our Ale? What Grain that is, and how prepar'd? 6. Whether their Arrows, they make, be poysonous? By what Tree, and how prepar'd? 7. Whether some People on the River Gambra, be only Tawny, as others very Black? 8. Whether the Negroes have such sharp sights, that they discover a Ship at Sea much farther off, than the Europeans can? 9. VVhat Reason there is to conclude, That the Common People being accustomed to drink VVater, is the cause, that they are troubled with VVorms in their Bodies, very painful to them, and difficult to get out? F I N I S. In the S A V O Y, Printed by T. N. for John Martyn at the Bell, a little without Temple-Bar, Printer to the Royal Society, 1667. 