14 S T A T U T E S O F C H A P T E R III. Of the Payments by the Fellows to the Society. I. EVERY person elected on the home list shall, before he is admitted a Fellow of the Society, pay to the use of the Society the sum of five guineas for admission money. And if any such person shall refuse or fail to pay the said sum, he shall not be admitted, and his election shall be void; except the said sum be remitted in whole, or in part, by special order of the Council. II. Every person elected a Fellow on the home list shall, beside the Admission money, farther contribute towards the expences of the Society, previous to his admission, either by paying the sum of twenty-six guineas in lieu of all future contributions, or by executing a bond, thereby subjecting himself to a payment after the rate of one shilling by the week to the Society, so long as he shall continue a Fellow thereof; which continuance shall be accounted from the time of his election. PROVIDED that if the usual place of residence of any such person shall happen to exceed the distance of sixty measured miles from London, such person shall not be permitted to give Bond for the payment of such contributions, but shall, before he be admitted, or his name be allowed to be printed in the list of Fellows, pay down the sum of twenty-six guineas in lieu of such contributions. III. Every THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 15 III. Every Fellow who hath given Bond may, at any time, compound for his future contributions, by paying at once the sum of twenty-six guineas; which payment being made, his Bond shall be delivered up. IV. For the more convenient receiving and collecting the contribution of one shilling by the week, to be paid by every Fellow who gives Bond as above mentioned, the same, amounting to fifty-two shillings by the year, shall be paid yearly to the twenty-fifth day of March, and in proportion for a part of a year, by any person elected after the beginning, or withdrawing from the Society before the said end of the year. V. Every Fellow of the Society, who pays contributions, shall upon the first, second, or third weekly meeting of the Society next after the twenty-fifth of March in every year, bring or send in to the treasurer, or his deputy, his yearly contribution of fifty-two shillings, or such proportion of it as shall be then due. And if any Fellow shall fail to bring or send in the same as aforesaid, except the said payment be remitted in the whole, or in part, by special order of the council; his bond shall be put in suit for the recovery thereof, and he shall be liable to Ejection out of the Society; upon which the Council shall proceed as they shall see cause. C H A P