V A fnew Sustension of the Magnettc Needle, intended for tbe Discovery of minute Quantities of Magnetic Attraction * also an Wir Vane of greclt Sensibility; with new Experianents on t1Je Magraetissn of Iron Fzlings and Brass. fy tbe REve A BenlaetX F. R. 5fe Commtenicated by the Rev. Sir Richard Kaye, Bart. F. R. S. Read January 26 ot9e r . l o marlifest the various degrees of attraction betsveen magnets and ferruginous bodies, different methods have beell used. The substance to be tried has either been simply brought into contact with the magnetS or llas been made to float otl water or mercury. Needles are commonly trxade to rest horizontally on sharp-poirlted wires, and as an improvelnent on these methods, Mr. CAVALLO has suspended a needle by a chain of horse-hair, consisting of five or sis links, which move very fireely ill each other, and allow the needle to turn more than a whole revolution round its centre. By comparing this needle vith others of the best sort in use, he foutld it much more sellsible Others have suspended the lleedle by firse threads, or silk: but as thesev on turning round a fesv times, will cause the needle tadeviate from its meridian by twisting they are certainly objectionable. After considering each of the aborre methods, and trying some of them in November-, 1789, I suspended a small sewitlg B{DCC XC I I t M Mr. BENNETVS Experiments on a newneedle by means of a spidervs thread, in the cylindrical glass of tny gold-leaf electrotneter; alad having satisfactorily proved its magnetic sensibility, I now venture to propose thi$ kind of suspension as being vwrell adapted to experiments requiring the 1leedle to move with the least resistatlceO EXPERI MENT I . From the astonishing tentlity of a spidervs tllread (see BAKER}S Microscope rtlade easyn Part II. Ch. xxv) it might be expected that it would bear very llluch twisting, without causing the needle to be sensibly drau7n from its magiletic rneridian * but to prove it more fully by direct experimentsn I first fastened a small hair to the side of the glass in which the needle was suspendedand placed it; so that tlle point of the needle stood exactly °l?posite to the point of the hair. Then I turned the needle roundX by means of a magnet, about 800 timesn and on removing the tnagnet, I found that the need-le rested exactly opposite to the hair : thus a spider's thread ollly twto inchesPlong, by twistings Soo timess did not cause any sensible deviatiorl. EXPER I MENT I 1-. A fine harpsichord wire three irlches long, was suspended in a larger glass. This wire was previously rendlered magnetic by making it redhot in the flalne of a carldle and suSering it toScool irl the direction of the magnetic lueridian: whereby it acquiredpolarity by the influence of the earth's naglletic atmosphere alone and leirlg softX it possessed (as migilt be expected) but a weak directive power. The spider's thread vas three inches long, and a small hair was fasterled Suspension of the Magnet-ic Needletly varnish to the north pole of t;his wire, which ;served more accurately to distirlguish its position opposlte to a bit of ierory marked svith degrees. This wire was turned round as bofore, more than a thousand times; yet when suffered to rest, it stood exactly at the same degree, tlae twist of the spider s thread having produced no sensible deviation. EXPER tMENT I I Iv A fine spider s thread was fastened to the spindle of a wheel used for spintling-flas; the wheel was placed so that the spirldle and thread might hang perpendicularly. To the end of the thread, svhich was about two inches and an half long, was fastened, by its smal]er end, one fibre of the feather of a goose-quill: the lower end of the fibre re.sted upon a book. The wheel was turned round till the spindle had made above z8,ooo reorolutions. During tiliS time the spider s thead gradually beca-me about otie inch shorter, yet all this tnvisting did not cause the fibre to turn round when raised from the book. On turnilog the spindle about Soo titnes more, the thread broke, apparently by twisting. Several twisted spider s threads urere viewed by means of a very good lucernal microscope, made by hIr. ADAMS, without being able to perceive any signs of twist, except where it was doubled, and which appeared like hairs grosving out of the thread : yet the twist may be distinctly seen by the naked eye, in the sunshine in some threads to be follnd amongst trees, where the spider has probably been turned round by the wind durirlg its descent from one lbrallch to another. M X Mr. BENNET'S ExperErnents on a neze:84E XPER I MENT IV . A: bristle was suspended horizontally by a spider's thread somewhat stronger than tlle last, and after turning the wheel tilI it produced 4800 revolutions, it shortened the thread from three inches to one inch; yet either end of the bristle would move towards any warm substance which vv?as presented to its either with or against the direction of the twist7 EXPER I MENT V e Several other light substallces svere suspended by fine spider's threads, and placed in a cylindrical glass about two inches in diameter, as the thinnest part of the wing of a dragon-fly, thistle down, and the dowls of dandelion; of these, the last appeared most sensible to the influence of heat, for when this down was fastened to orle end of a fine gold wire suspellded horizontally, or to one end of two bits of straw joined together in the fors of the letter T inverted, it would turn towards any person who approached it at the distance of three feet, and vould move so rapidly towards wires only heated by my hands as very much to reselnble magnetic attraction. fiee Tab. II0 fig. 1t EXPERIMENT GII. A bottle filled with cold water was brought rlear the glass cylinder, starlding itl a warm room, and soon after the down of dandelion appeared to be repelled lJy the bottle, by turning away from it. The bottle was retnoved to tlhe other side, and the daudelion again luoved towards the opposi-te side. These attractions and reptllsionsX since they acted through Suspension of tbe Mclgnetic Needle.glass, and at so great a distance, appeared to me at first to betlleeffects of atmospheres of heat, acting in a sitnilar manner to those of e]ectricity ; and on slaewit2g them to a believer in animal rnagnetism, he vvas colzfident that the light substallces were moved by tl-le magnetic atmosphere of the body, and that there was a difference betwixt the attraction of tlle right hand and the left: but the doubts of my philosophical friends iilduced lne to try the follovvJing experim;ent, which fully ex plains the matter. EXPERIMENT V11. A pSiece of paper was tied over the mouth of a glass jar about four inches ill diameter. Two holes were made in the paper opposite to each other, and near the edge of the glass. 'rhe jat was placed upon a table, and s-uffiered to stand a considerable tinze to cool in a room without fire ; I theta sat near it, on the side where one of the holes in tha paper was in the nearer, and the other in the farther end of the diameter. I next filled anc)ther glass with smoke, and placed it with itsmouth over the two holes irl the paper. rrhe smoke was rsow seen to descend through the farthest hole, and ]nixing with the air ill the lower j-ar, plainly shewedthat the air moved slovvly towards the side of the $1ass warmed by the heat of tny body. EXPER I MENT V I-I I-e. The last experin:lent proved, that the current -of air rnoving towards and tllen ascending up the heatecl side of the glasse might turn the broader end of the light suspended body, like the van-e of a weathercc)ck: bllt that it might still more de-sisively appear ta be occasioned by a currerlt of heated air, I 86Mr. BENNETES Experizzlents on a nezvsuspended three inches of gold wire 2 80 °f all inch thick7 hy a spider's thtead ; about an iach of the same wire vvras fastened to the middIe, and hangitlg perpendicularly from the place to which the thread ^ras attached, kept it in an 11orizontal pQSitiorl whiIst undisturbed, and yet suXered it to rnove up and dosvn like a scale beam, by a small degree of mtion in wthe air. Under one end of this vv ire lleated substarlces were introduced, which caused it to tnove upwards, seenaixlg to be repelled by them with-as much force, as it xvas attracted when they urere applied horizontally. Havillg found that a spiders thread, ollly two illches and atl half long, vhen twisted by above 18,ooo revolutions, would not cause a sensible deviation of tize magnetic needle, owing to its very great tenuity, or to its glutinous quality preventing its having any tendency to untwist; and that light substances suspended by it, and ilaclosed in a glass, were capable of being turned about by so small a degree of heat as that occasioned by a person sittirlg at the distance of three feet from the irlstrumerlt ; or by utires, or otluer substatlces, orlly warmed by hold ing in my hatld ; and that; whetl the instrutnent was placed in a cool roomX a slight touch witll the end of my finger would cause the wing of the dragon-fly, or even a bit of straw, to point exactly at the side of the glass which had beerl touched; there could retnairz tlo doubt of the freedom svith which a magnetic needle would move when thus suspended: yet atlother experiment more directly proves its fleedom of motion to be g;reater than that of former methods. EXPERIMENT IX. Six rings of horse-hair, made exactly accordillg to MrO Saspension of the Magtletic Needle.8-7CAVAL:LO'S di5rection, were susperlded in a cylindrical glass jar; to the lowest of these ringsa spodervs thread, three inches long, was attached. This thread was fastened to a gold wire twisted roulad the middle of a small sewing needle. The jar was placed with its mouth downwards, and over the edge of a table, the needle hanging a little lower. After the needle and rings of horse-hair vvere perfectly at rest, the point of the needle was struck with the endof my finger, which caused it to turn round very swiEtly, yet this twisting did not move tl¢e rings of horse-hair. At1 harpsichord wire, twenty-one inches long, was suspended by ten spWiders threads, to the lowest ring of the horse-hait chain; this was alsofrequently turned rouIld vsrithout moving the rings. A wire of this length vvras afterwards suspended by spider's threads in a proper frames and with an ivory scale of degrees, with all intention to observe the-daily variation ; but it was toosnuch influenced ky heat, svhich I have not yet been able to obviatee E XPE Rl-M ENT x . To the end of a fine gold wire, three inclles long, and sus^pended by a spider's thread in a cylindrical glass, was fastened a small circular bit of +vriting paper; light vvTas adtnitted through a small h(3le and also the focus of a large lens vas thrown upon the paper, with the intention of observing whe ther it w-oultl be moved by the impulse of ligllt: but though these experim-ents were often repeated, and ollce with the paper suspended in an exhausted receiver, yet I could not perceive any motion distinguishable from the effects of heat.Perhaps sensible heat and light may not be caused by the in flux or rectilineal projections of fine particles: but by the g8Mr. BENNET'S ExperiBtents an a newvibrations made ill the universally dffivlsed calorlc or matter of heat, or fluid of light. I thi:ak lmodern discoveries, especially those of electricity, favour the latter hypotnesisv EXPERIMENT X r. \hen cold wires are introduced within the ;lass jary and near the light suspended sulJstances, as bits of straw, or vefy fine wires, a very slight motion of the irltrodaaced substa;-ces pushes the suspended wires at the distallce of an inch, appearing like repulsion, but a contrary motion draws thern ratarer ; therefore it may be attributed to the moti3n of the air Silso, when a spider's thread, without any thitlg attached to it, is suspended in a-dry glass jar, it recedes from the electriG atluo sphere of an excited glass tube brought suddenly near the cyutside of the glass jar, whether the tube be positi^sttely or ngatively electrified 3 and when the tube is suddenly re;@tl-3ved1) tlle thread is drawll after it. This may be accounted for by the difficulty with which the spidervs thread changes its sate of elec tricity, being a very imperfect conductor ; wlnence also, notwith standing its extreme fineness, it is Ullfit to be used as an elec trometer. EXPERIMENT XII. It is indispensibly necessary that a magnetic rueedle, intended for the d;scovery of millute quantities of magnetic attractioll, should be inclosed in a proper apparavus, that the 1notion of the air nay n-ot disturb it, atld that the substances to be tried may be brought sufficiently near, and at right angles with the point of the needle. The following instrument was cons-tructed for this purpose, andis submitted to the approbation Sveension of the Magnetzc NeedleJof those who are desirous of lxaking furtller improrrement$ ln the science of magnetism. In fig. e. A is tlle bottom of tlle instrurzlent, M inches square, arld one illch thicks to lie horizontally on the table and made of mahogany. 13 }3 is a fratne of the same vrood, standing vertically on the middle of the square bottonl, 62 inches high and g2 broad. On one side of tlle frame a piece of glass is {ixed, and a piece of writing paper gold heaters skin, or other thin substance ls pasted to the edge of the fratne otl the other sides so that the glass arld the paper statld vertically arad parallel to each other, at the distance of about half an inch, which is sufficient room for the needle? hanpkag by a spider's tlaread from the scrent at C, which screwpasses througll the top piece Dn whicll drops into an opening cut through the frame, and may be taken out by means of the knob of the scresv at E. About lo degrees of a circle are marlied upon a bit of ivory fastened to the edge of the frame at Fs and the needle, three inches lotlg, is made of the smallest steel harpstchord wire, and is suspended by a spider's thread also three inclles lorlg. A sluall tapering-llair, fasteneel to the nortll pole witll varnisll, and extending about 8 °f an ialch farther than the end of the wire, points at the degrees on the ivory, so that its motiotl may be very accurately distinguished atld especially by tlle use of a lens. Roulld the middle <?f the -zeedIe a small gold wire is twisted, and its end stalld ing perpendicularly is fastened to the spider's thread, to keep the needle in a horizontal position. The lnetllod of obtainil:zg and fastening the spider's threads which I have used, is this: I take a forked stick, consistillg of a stem and turo or three branches, standingo at about six ilaches asulader at their etlds, and after finding a pr(3per tllread} in tlleMDCCXCIIu N . BENNETSS Experiments 07a a newcorns o;f a building) or amongst trees, the ends of the stick are smeared with varnish and each end applied to the thread: snJhich being tllrned round theends of the stick may be brought asvay : or several fbrked sticks may be placed in a tootn, where spiders are not disturbel and they utill soorl attach their threads to them When the thread is in this manner extoended betrhteen the branches, the sticli is placed llpON tlle edge of a table, and itl tlle sunshine, if possible, that it may be ill a convenient posi-> tion for attaching it to the 1leedle and screw, by hich it is to hang. The gold wire al3ove lnentioned is then dipped in varnish, and applied to one etld of the spidervs threads so as to entangle it in the varnish, wllich soon drying, the thread becomes fastn and-may be $uSered to hang dosvn, the upper nd of thetthread being yet fast tothe forked stick. The pOillt of the screw in the top piece is then dipped in varnish, and l;he upper end of the thread attached to it in the sarne manner. Lastly, the needIe is gradually losvered through the opening in the top o£the instraament, till it hangs oppositef to the marked ivory: but if the thread be too Iong, it is easily sllortened by liiStitlg up the top piecea touching tlle end of the screw with varnish} atld turning it rounct, so as to wind the thread alvout its till it svill hallg near the edge of the ivory : but to set the point of the hair at the -end of the needle: at a tnore exact distance, after the top piece is replacedls the screvvt isturned by its knob E, whicll raises or lowers the needle till it hangs right. A seconkl method of raising or lc>^ntering the lleedles ^7ith less trouble irl the collstruction, is to use as snl;all brass. wire illsteact of the screv, which may pass through a corli ; or rlae ivory illdex may be made to rise and fall by means of a 581xspension of ttSe lVagnetzc Needleogtscresr. If both sides of the instrulneIlt be niade of glass, ik may be filled with some tran-spa-l*-ent fuid, wlli¢h ^zill laot cause the metal to rusts as spirit -of wine, or oil of turpentine, that the needle may move more steadily, alld llot be sensibly influenced by heat. Expedients for rendering the instrtlment luore portable might be easily contrived: but I hope no unprttldiced philosopher svill pronoullce it useless, because the spider's thread, whicla is so easily replaced, tnay break; for sensibility is the only property of essential use in discoveries vvhereitl a small degree of magnetic attraction is to be ascertained. EXPERIMENT XlII. The first use I made of my needle suspended as above, sras to try the polarity of several iron utensils ; andn as might be expecteda they attracted or repelled the llorth erld of the needIe, according to their position with respect to the tnagnetic atmosphere of the earth. A bar of soft irotln half an inch square, and nirle inches long, luoved tlle needle very sellsibly at the -distatlee of about three fieet; longer bars moved it at a tnuch grear distance; and if a bar was held horizontally llear the end d the needle, and at ri;ht angles it might be made either to attract or repel, by moving it up or down only llalf an inch7 so as to appear to change its attraction to repulsion at command; which has surprised persons unacquainted with the mportance c3f position with respect to the earth's magnetix -atmosphere. This polarity of positiorl may be very sensibly perceived by presenting small nails or smaller bits of wire, above or below the needle, or with the remote end inclining tonvards the llortla or south; which plainly demonstrates the N e Mr. BENNET'S Experiments on a new92existence of a magnetic atmosphere orer the earth where the magnetic fluid being rarefied at e}ne pole arld condensed at the other, occasions the polar direction Qf the laeedles of so much * * llSt ln navlgatlon VEXPERINIENT X IET * At-therequestofDr. DARWIN,VI repeated an experilment of Mr. CARTALLO on the increased attraction of iron fili-ngs by efferarescence with diluted vitriolic acid inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, VOle LXXVII alld according to his direction, I placed two ounces of iron filings in an earthen vessel, near the south end of the needle, alld first pouring in five parts of water, and then one of good vitriolic acid, a brisk effervescellce ensued > but the needle could nst be perceived to move. This I repeated six times, sometimes supposing it moved a little, but was not certain, and despaired of success till I recollected of how much importance it was to place the filings in a proper direction as to the earthis magnetic atmosphere; for hitherton although the filirlgs were placed at right angles nTith the point of the needle, yet the bottom of the vessel was as much beloml as the upper surface of the filings was above it. I then took a quantity of filings tied up in a papery and presenting them to the needle I found that the bottom alwtays repelled, and the top attracted the rlorth pole; it was therefore necessary to place tlle bottom of the vessel @ven w7ith the needle, or rather above it, which circllmstance Mr. CA_ VALLO did raot mention. I then placed the vessel at such a distance that the needle svas drawn one degree from its forlns posltion; then on adding the urater and vitriolic acid as befores the needle came about one clegree still nearer; yet it appeared Ssflension of the Magnelric -Needle. 93 improbable that this increased attractiotl should be owing to any chemical change itl the sSIings; and as it was so necessary to place them right, it appeared to llle likely tllat whilst each particle of iron was emitting bubbles of inflammable air, and thereby increasing the perpendicular height of the filirlgs, ffiis circurnstance would prove the only cause of stlch increased attraction. To verify this I put a quantity of filillgs into an earthen Yessel which covered the bottom an inch deep; then placing them so as to draw the needle tro degrees from its meridian, I marked exactly where tlle vessel stood and taking it away, I mixed with the filings a quantity of salld, which raised the whole depth of the mixture to tsvo itlches; then replacxng the lressel, I found the needle drawn above four degrees from its meridian. Still lxlore to confirm thissJ I placed the filings below instead of above the south pole an&repeated both the effervescence and ralixture of sand, and thereby caused as great an increase of repulsion as of attraction by placing them ab-ove. Each of these-experimentsw was repeated, by placing the: vessel abolre and below thellorth pole also and the results vvere accor-dinglyvaried * but when small 1lailswere used instead of the filings, rlo increased attra«ction was produced, because the nails were too heavy to be raised higher irlk the vessel, although tEle effervescellee was very violent; whence I w-as fully convillced that this experiment depended only on raising th=e1 perpendicular height of the colurun of iron filingsv E XPE R I MENT XV . To obviate the suspiciorl that effervescelace might agitate the iron filingsv and bringa greater 1luruber of them to that $ide of tlle vessel whicil stands contiguous to the maglletic Mr. BENNET)S ESCPerinZ68TS otl axe}gffineed1e, WIr. CALTALLO repeated tlle experitnent with sis yards of st;eel Xwire twisted in various directions so as to be admitted into the pot; in which casettlle tnetal presented a large surface to the acid and svas not sulDject to be lnoved by the effer vescence. On adding the diluted vitriolic acid, the needle came somewhat more thanrhalf a degree nearer to the pott After considering the influence of lleat in the above experi ments, and that the motion o-f the needle was only half: a degree, it may reasonably be suspected to be occasiolled by the heat of the vessel: yet I think it may also be accounted for by the change of maglletism in the twisted wire; for, after trying several times to produce this attraction, by pouring the diluted vitriolic acid on a number of bits of vvrire tied to the end of a glass tube without tuZisting I could not produce any increased attraction; at last by tsvisting the utire9 I succeeded to produce a degree-of attraction, nvhich I thougiat was owing to the expansion or untwisting of the vvire during the effernrescence This OpilliOn was strengthened by the cllanges of polarity I coulcl so easily produce ill softerled steel svire; first by passing it through a candle by vv-hich it would acquire a very sensible polarity, according to the positioz in which it was cooled; secondly, by s]Lightly drawing it through my lStlgers, held ill different directions in res?ect to the earth's polarity ; thirdly, when a wire, tllree inches long vas fastened to the etldof a glass tube, and deprived of sensible polarity, by passirlg through a candle at rigllt angles t the magnetic meridiarl, it vould becolne possessed of sensible po]arityl by a sl:nall blov . vith my finger on the glass tube? whilst held in a proper PQsition; fourthly? the smaIlest degree of pressure betvvween my fingerss so as to bend tlle w^re, would give it polarity. NowX Suspension of the Magnetic Needlew95 a qualltity of harpsichord vvire bent in a great number of directions vvrill possess in some parts a polarity attractive, alld in others repulsive, of the south pole of the needle ; and whetl placed in an earthen vessel, with its bottom so1neBhat above the needle, it attracts the sollth pole, first by tllose parts urhich have acquired a north polarity by bendig; and this attraction is strewagthened by position ; and also position gives llort-lS polarity to otller parts, in other respects indifferent: tllell, during the effervescence, the 11eat of the xnixture dilates the wire) alld in some places tllereby bellds it one vsay or otller, vllicEl occasions it to acquire the magnetism of positiot<, vwrhence tlaere must sotnetimes result an increased attractiotl Froln .-r these and other experiments it appears tl:zat whenever the particles of steel (hard enough to be capable of fixed polarity) are by any means displaced they adrnit their llatural magnetisln to bSecome rarefed and condensed by the influerlce of the earth's magnetic atmosphere; and tllus the effect of electrical shocks oll steel wires may be explainezd : but it does llot ap?ear probable that the action of acils increases the magnetic attraction of iron ullless accompallied by otller cir(*ulnstatlces to which az1 increased attraction may be nlore reasonably attri butedt EXPERIMENT XV 1. On readirlg Mr. CAVALLO)S experiments-on the increased attraction of iron by effervescence, Dr DARWIN WAS led to inquire3 whether inflammable air be magnetic I thereirey at his request, caused illflammable air to issue through a paper tube held near the orth alld south pole of the lleedle alternately; tlle air was also received in a, bladder, and Mr. BENNET)S Etperimertts a?? a new-96applied; but svithout producing any sesible effect on the needle. In the -LXXVIth Vol ume of the Philosophical Transactions, Mr. CAVALLO has endeavoured to prove that brass {' does not owe its magnetistn to iron-, but to sonle particular {;config;-uratiorl of its component particles, occasioned by the " usllal methocl of hardening it) which is by hamluering.' Some bras$, lle observes, will not acquire 6C any selasible mag" rletism by hammering.)) And in other pieeesg -hich have often passed from the srorksl:lop to the futnacef an(l from the latter to the former, tllere is contained iron wlaich renders them magnetic. Now, since ssome hrass is ev-idently tnagtletic becatlse it contains iron, it appears to nle likely that brass, whose mag netism is made sensible by hammering, colltains a srnaller quantity of iron, and that hammeritlg renders it sensible,by giving it some degree of polarity. Therefore no brass caz acquire this property vvhich contailas no iron. 'lnhis will appear more evident by the follosving experimentse EXPERI MENT XV I I O t placed an iron nail, about tvi-o inclles long, in tlle fires svhere it becatne red hot, and cooled, as the fire ntent out, ila a position east and west with respect to the tnagnetic meridian; by which it became very soft, and whetl presellt:ed tc)wards the needle, it attracted or repelled according to its pov sition, liaving no fixect polarity. Tlle nail svas tlle placed upon an anvil, Bith the poitlt directed towards tlne south of the magnet-ic trleridian; and after hammering in tllis position till it svas considerably hardened, its point possessed a f sed Suspension of t7we llJagnetis Needle.97south polarity; the other end, bein$ thickern did not seemtohe altered. Another nail was hammered with its pOillt tOWardStllEnOrth xvhich gave it a fixed llorth polarity. The polarity of tllese hamlnered nails lxlight be instantly changed, by bendillg the pointn whilst held in a contrary position to tlaat in which they were llatmmered. Several oblorlg pieces of magnetic brass were hamtnered in the same mannerX and thereby made to possess a north or south polarity, accordint, to their position xvhilst hammered: hence it appears, that the general eSect of halumering is to harden the luetal, whereby it becomes in sotnedegree a non-conductor of magnetism, and retains that rarefied and colldensed, and therefc)re more sensible) state of the fluid, which is produced by the influence of the earth's mag netic atmosphere. EXPERIMENT XV I I f . In a slllall crucible I placed six tlairl plates of copper, and betwixt each of them a plate of zinc; tllese being melted, and cast in a proper mould, producecl an oblong piece of brass) which was not sensibly magnetic, nor could I produce any magnetism in it by halumering. The sarne quantity of copper and zinc were melted, with the additiotl of sotne small bits of iron. This brass was very sensibly snagnetic, and, when hamsuered, acquired polarityX by wllich it more sensibly attracted c)r repellLed the needle. Lastly, a piece of copErer srras melted writh the addition of some ironX which was also sensibly magnetic. From these experiments I collclucle, t;hat brass oNve$ sts magnetisln to iroil; but that st may sometimes cotltain so small a quantity as not to be sensible till iRt be hammered. MDCCSCI I . O 98 . BENNET)WS Experiments ScO The greater sensibility. and easy constructiotl, of a lnagnetic needle susperldesl by a spider's thread, as above described, I hope, will contribute to extend tnagnetic observationsn which may in time produce a true theory of this important branch of scielace ; while the very sensible air vane9 from the satne mocle of suspensioll, tnay presrent the apparent attractions and repulsiolls, occasioned by currents of airX from being confounded with those of magnetism. 