The Reverend Mr. Roger Pickering, F. R. S. to the President, concerning the same. Aldermanbury, March 8. 1749-50. S I R, T H E Earthquake this Morning, which happen'd at so early an Hour as to surprise most People in their Sleep, I had all the Opportunities imaginable of observing to as much Exactness as Phaenomena of this Nature can be; and therefore do myself the Honour to present you with this early Intelligence. Read March 8. 1749-50. About a Quarter after 5 I was lying in Bed awake, and under the Composure which one generally feels upon recovering from a regular and retreshing Sleep. To this the Serenity of the Morning greatly contributed, as well as the gradual Increase of Light, which, the Shutters being open, could easily be perceived thro' the linen Furniture of the Bed and Window[623] Window-Curtains. I mention this Particular, because, every Object in the Chamber being thus render'd sufficiently distinct, I had the Opportunity of examining the Event by the Evidence of my Eyes, as well as that of my Ears. On a sudden I heard a Sound like that of a Blast of Wind; such a Blast I mean, as those we perceive in the dry windy Days, so frequent with us about the Equinoxes; one that, at different Intervals, rises gradually to its full Strength, and gradually dies off. The Attention this occasion'd led me very sensibly to perceive myself rais'd in my Bed (which stood N. and S.) and to observe, that the Motion, as I lay upon my Back, began on my right Side, and from Head to Foot inclined me towards the left. This was nearly instantaneous with the Commencement of the Blast, and I immediately concluded it to be an Attack of the same kind with that on this Day was a Month. The Sensation I felt at this time was rather folemn than terrifying; so that I patiently lay to observe the following Circumstances. The first Shock being given, the Motion that followed was that of a very quick Vibration; and looking at the Curtains of the Bed, I perceived their Motion was similar. The Hinges of the Drawers of a Dressing-Table on my right Hand clapp'd, not only distinctly, but considerably loud; and a Sound, suitable to its Materials, came from every moveable Body in the Room. The whole Shock, to my Judgment, lasted about 10 or 12 Seconds of Time; when, the rushing Noise above-mention'd having gradually died away, every thing was restored to that Calmness which had preceded the Event. I then [624] I then rose, and found by my Watch that it was half an Hour past 5. I am not able to judge of the comparative Force of this Shock with that on this Day Month; for I was then at my House on Enfield-Chace, where it was not in the least perceived, nor nearer to there (as I can learn) than Edmonton, which lies, in a S.E. Direction, about 3 Miles and a half nearer to Town. But one of my Chimnies in Town has suffer'd by this Shock; and I am informed that two others have been thrown down in Monkwell Street and Jewin Street, which lie in a N. W. Direction, from Aldermanbury, at about 1/8 of a Mile Distance. I think, Sir, I have somewhere found it observed by the antient Naturalists, that Earthquakes usually tho' not constantly, happen in the Spring and Autumn; and the Principle they go upon gives some Credit to their Observation. However, this induced me to look over my Minutes of such Earthquakes with us as have come to my Knowlege since the Middle of the last Century. These I found as follow; viz. 19 Jan. 1665 6 at Oxford about 6 Even. 17 Sept. 1683 at ditto about 7 Morn. 9 Oct. ditto thro' the Midld Counties about 11 Night. ~In London, and Parts~ adjacent, and in the 8 Sept. 1692 about 2 p. m. English Camp in Flanders 28 Dec. 1703 In the N. of England about 5 Even. ~In London, and about~ 8 February 7 Miles round, & from about 121/2 p. m. 1749-50. private Hands at Calais 8 March [625] ~In London, where~ 8 March, ditto else, at present about 51/2 Morn. unknown, Out of these seven Instances, you will perceive, Sir, that 3 have happen'd in the Autumn, 2 in Spring, and 2 in December and January; so that the Balance in Favour of the ancient Observations is as 5 to 2. I beg Leave also to observe, that of these, the 2 in the Spring are those we have so lately felt, and those, after the openest Winter, and in the warmest Spring, that our Country, possibly, ever knew. How far this Observation may be applicable to adjust the Cause of the two late Earthquakes, it would be impertinent in me, to offer to you. You will please, however, to excuse me, Sir, if I take the Liberty of my Function to observe, that, however obvious, in general, the secondary Causes of these Phaenomena may be; there is something so peculiarly affecting, so striking, in these solemn Struggles of Nature, as irresistibly suggests to the Mind the unspeakable Grandeur and Majesty of God, and arises in full Evidence of the Existence, Wisdom, and Power, of the L O R D of N A T U R E. It is, Sir, with very great Esteem that I take the Honour of being. S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, R. Pickering. L l l l XVI. 