PHILOSOP H IGAL T R A N S A C T I O N Sx OF TME ROYAL SOGIETY OFLON:DONi TOR THE YEAR MDG-CXCIY. PART IotONDON, w__ SOLD BY PETER ELMStYs PRINTERTO THE ROYAL SOCIETY MDCGXC lY.i [ liiM X A:DVE-RTISEMENT. .... tT' 1 nz Committee appointed by tlne Woyal lSociedy toA directw the pube lication of tlle PXzilosofAical lwratlsactionss wtake this opportunity tc>> acquaint the Public, tllat ite fully appears, as vell frorn the councllh books and journals of the Society, as firom repeated declarations wvllicll have been) made irl several former frcrnsactzo^s, tllat the printin; of them was alvays, frorn time to time, tlle single act of the respecuse Secretaries, till tlle Forty-seventh Vo]uine: tlle SocietOr, asta 130dyX never intere-sting themselves ally ftlrther ln their publication, sthan by occasionally recommendinc the revival of them to .some iof tlleirA Se cretaries, when7 from tlleparticular circtlmstances of their affairs, the lyratasactions hacl happened for any length of tirne to be intermittedO And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy t;he Public, that their usual meetings were thell continued, for the imS provexnent o-f knowledge; and berlefit of nzankind, athe great endsof their first instatution by -tlle lloyal ChartersS and which they have ever isnce steadilySpursued. But the Society besng of late years gleatly enlarged, and their communicatiorls morenumerous, it w-as thou«t advisable, that a CornF Wmittee of tlleir members-shotlld be apl30inted to leconuider the papers read beSore thetn, and select outeof them such as thezr should judge most proper for publication in the-future transclcgions; which was a£cordmgly doneupon the 26th of MarchS wo7,52. And the gountls ^' 12 2 t -is -]W of their chovics are, and will vcontinue to be, the importance and sinZ .. . gularity of the subjectss ol the advantageous manner oftreating thems without pretending to ansiwer for the certainty of the facts, or proZ priety of the reasonings -contai1led in the several papers tso publishedt which must still rest on the credit or judgment of their respective authors It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remarE that it is an estaF blsishecl ruIe of the Society, to which they will aIways adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, llpOn any subject, either of Nature or Artfi that comes beCorewthem. And therefore the thanks, which are 9trequently ploposel fiom the-Chair to be given to the authors of such papewrs as are read at tlleir accustomedxneetingsX or to the persons through whose hands they receive them, are to be considered in no other light thart as a matter of civility, in return f8r tlle respect she+rn to the Society by those communications. The lilce also is tQ be said witll re gard to the several proJects,inventions, and curiosi4;ies of various kinds, which are ofien exhibited to the Society; the authors whereoffi -or t;hose rllo exhibit them} frequently take the liberty toreportS and :even to certify in the public news-pa?ers, tllat they have met wlth the hiAhest applause arld approbation. And tTie>efore it is hopedj that no regard wrill hereafter be paid to such report;s, and public notices; whsch in sotne instances= have been too lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society GONTENTS. _ .., . . *..,... . * ; . ... I AN Account of the Dzscovery oJn a Concet. In a Letter ffirom Miss Caroline tIerschel ts Joseph Plantay Esq. Sec. R. S page s II. Account of a new Pendulunz. By George Fordyce, MX D. F. A. S. n bezng tbeBakerian Lecture. p. g III. Some Facts relative to the late Mr. John Hunter'spreparation for the Croonian Lecture. By Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. p.21 IV. Observations of a quantuple Belt og the Planet Salurn. Bsy William Herschel, LL. D. F. R. S. p. 28 V. Observations -on the fJundamental Property tf the Lever-:* zuith aProf of the Prznciple vssumed by Archimedes, in his Dernotlslration. By the Rev. S. Knce A. M. F. R. S. p. 3S, VI. Sccount of sorne Particulars obserzJed during the late Eclipse of the Sun. By William Herschel, LL.D. F. R. S. 39 VII. The Latitudes and Lo?sgitudes of sereralxPlvees in DenX Sark ; calculated from the Trigogometrical Operalions. By -Thomas Bugge, F. R. S. Regius kProfessor of Astronomy g Copenhagen. p 43 YIII. On the Rotatsion of the Planet Saturn Bpor its Azis. Z William fIerschel LL. D. F. R S. p. 48 1X. Sn: W¢Qxnt of a Mevtbod of mevsur-V*ng the bounparative Inte° sitzes of Xtbe Light emitted by lgminous Bodies By Lzeutenant Gsseral Sir Benjalnin Thompsoll5 Count f Rumford F A. &* In two Letters to Sir Jowph; Baris, Bart. P. R. & p. 6t N. Sx Arcount of some Experlments upon coloumd Shadows. B^y Liegtexant-Gane7w1 SirBenjamin Thompson; Covnt of Rumford, E R.; $. 1k ffi Lettef: to Sr: Josephs Banks, Bartn P.R.S. -p ,7 SI. In7>@stigationsa foanded on the TbeoryNof Motiona for del;er ninang t Tzzes Cf Kibrsotion f bMatsh Balances. By-George Atwood, :Esqw R-:R. &. f p. < 19 APPE NDIS. iWetdoroZoglcal-ournal k-egCt att the A¢partments of thie Royal $0-a cietya bW Qrdere oJz tbe Presi(lent axdv Coancil B . s x . i * i, ; . t.. ERRATA. ^ hge I+ ine I7* >or X Y, reozd :XI. P;age 15x, line 4,ffior remalning-semiarc3 read remaining part-of t1ne semiar¢a* Page I53 note} line 6 Som the bfltomvfor .9I, read 87* Ibid tlote, linX 4 fromXthe bottorK,Mor 5, rerd >. Page x67? lixe l+,ffior so aAjusted, read adjustQd sotcv vit/) [i(:)N1)0N. l (31t 1 14145 WrEAl-t A11)CCXC18x 9 1) + 13 ] li. I, O AtDO N7§(3LD 1;5t rETERt Et AfSt.E', §}1 l a+a!TEK T0 'rIl£ MOYAL SOt'lEl'\ hIDCC4NtC lXr.PHI LO S O l' } C A Ij T R A N S A (: t15 I (:) Ar Sn OF TII]> R O YA IJ S O C 1 1, 1 Y <:) !,, cXoNTENrrs. XII. ON the Conversion of Snlmal Muscle into a Substaxce enucS resembling Spernaceti. By George Smith Gibbes, B. A. of Magdalen Collegeg Oxford. Communicated by George Shaw, M. D. F. R. S. p. 169 SIII. Abstract of a Register of the Barometer, Thermometer, and Rainn at Lyndon, in Rutland, 179g. By Thomas Barker, Esq. Communicated by hrir Joseph Banks, Bart. P.R.S P 1i74 XIV. Observations on some Egyptian M?zmmzes opexed zn London. By John Frederick Blumenlbach, M. D. F. A. S. dddfressed to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. P. ]Q. S. p. oty XV. Observati)ns on Vzsion. By David Hosack, M. D. Consmunicated by (Xeorge PearsonX M. D. F. R. S. p. 196 SVI. lJr. Halleyvs Quadratztre of the Circle inzprovetl: being a Jransfornativos of his Serzes for tbaz pzlrpose to os-hers whichconverge by tbe l'ozvers of 800 By t/e ]Qev. Jolall t-Iel lins, Micar Qf Pottervs Ptlry, isa Northamptonshire. Conlntlnicated by Arevil Maskelyne, D. D. F. ISt S. a>zd 24strono 7ner WoyalX p. 2 z7 SVI I . On the Method! of determning, f rorn the real Probazbilities of Lffie, tbe Values of contiszgent Revew^siass, in zvbicb Three Lives a? e iszv017ved in the Survlvorsbzpe By Willialz} ATc)rga Esq. F. R. S p. 22$ C ig 2 XVIII. Observalion oJffl the great Eclipse of the Sun of Sept. , y93. By John Jerome Schroeter, Esq. . .Communicated by George Best, Esq. F. R. S. p. 262 XIS. Experiments and Observations made with the Do?zbler of Electricity, wzlh a view to determine its real Utility, iaz t-he investigation of the Electricity of atmospheric 2Zir7 zn dfferent degrees of Purity. By Mr. John Read. CoznonaZzEcated by Richard Henry Alexander Berlnet, Esq. F. R. S. p. 2bG XS. TablesJ6r redsctng the Quantilies by fiVeight, in any Mtx tuze of pre Spirlt a^d bMater, to tZJose by Measure, ^:d for determining the Proportion, by Mea3ured of each of tbe two Substances in such M^tures. By MrF George Gilpin, Cler,6 to tiDe Royal Society. Conamunicated by Sir Cllarles Blagden, Knt. Sec. R. S. p. 275 XXI. Observatzons and ExperinHents on a Wax-like Sgbsltanae, resembling tbe Pe-la of the Cllinese, collected at Madras by Dr. AndersorlS and called! by hiin White Lac. By George Pearson, 11I. D. F. R. S. p. ,8g XXII. Account of sgme remarkable Caves isa l>he Prinsipalzzy of Bayreuth, and of the fosszl Bones found tberein. Extrafed from a Papez sent, with Specimens of tbe Bozes, as a Presez1t to the Woyal SocieZy, by his most 23erene Higbne.ss the Mar$rave of Allspachn Sc. ' p. Aos XXIII. Observalions orl tbe fossil B:nestrese^ted to tbe [-oyai7 Society by his mos! ,Serene SIighness tlJe MGzrgrave of Ataspach, Sc. By the late Jola1a Huntern Esq. F. R. S. CoznSzlniuatecl by Everard Home? Esq. F. R. S. p. o7. SXIV. Arcoant of a o%ineral Substanren called Strontiollite, zn wbich are exlDibited its ezternal, PZJYSiCaIN and chem*czl CJJara-er.s By =Hr. Jolln Godfrey Schlneisser, F. R. S. p. aS C v 3 XXV. Accc)uslt of a spontansous Infiammation By Isaac ldumfriesn Esq. In a Letterfrom Thomas B. Woodman, Esq. to George Atwood, Esq. F. R. S. p 426 XXVI. An Account oje^ane X4ppearance cvf Light, Itke a Staz, see^z in the dark Part of the Moon, on Friday the 7th of Marchy 794, by William Wilkins, Esq. at Norwich. In Extracts of a Letter to the Rev. Samuel Vince, F. R. S. and of tbree Let];ers to the Rett. Nevil Maskelyne, D. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal, and communicated by t/e latter. p. 42g XXVII. An Accoust of an Sppearance of Lighb, Itke a Star, seen lately in the dfark Part of the Moon, by Thomas Stretton, in St. John's Square, Clerkensvell, London , with Remarks upon thzs Observatzon, and Mr. Wilkins's. Drawn up, and com municatedj, by tbe Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal. P 4SS Presents received by the Royal Society, from November, y9S, to July, 1794. p. 441 IndKex. P 445 