The President's Account of the Earthquake at London, March 8. March 8, 1749. A T very nearly half an Hour after 5 this Morning, being then in Bed, but perfectly awake, I felt a very strong Shake, or rather 3 or 4 successive Shakes of an Earthquake, as I immediately took them to be. I judge the whole Phaenomenon Read March 8. 1749-50. [614] Phaenomenon to have lasted about 3 or at most 4 Seconds of Time; and the Shocks appear'd to differ from what I had felt on the 8th of last Month, in this Particular, that I did not now perceive that lifting upwards, and sudden settling again, which I was then sensible of; nor did I hear that distinct Noise, as of a great Weight falling, which most People were then surprized with: But what now most affected me was the Sensation of very quick Shakes, or of a Tremor, as it appear'd in a horizontal Direction; and I heard, during all the time, a sort of Crackling of the Wainscot, Window-Frames, and Floor, with such a Rattling in the Chimney, as I have sometimes heard upon a sudden and strong Gust of Wind. I instantly jump'd out of Bed, to see if there was any Damage done; and going to my Chamber-Door, I met my Daughter running in a Fright from her Room, who said she was wak'd with such a Shock, that she thought her Room had been falling; two MenServants also, who lay in the Garret, and whom I had called to, answer'd me whilst I was talking to my Daughter, that they were both wakened by the Shock, and that they felt, as they both expressed it, such a Motion, as they had sometimes known given to a Child in a Cradle. Presently after I had got on my Clothes, I spoke to some of my Neighbours, who all gave me very nearly the same Account as this I have been just giving of what I had observed myself; only some added, particularly a Gentleman who lives in an older House than mine, that he apprehended, from a crackling Noise over his Head, that a Chimney had been thrown [615] thrown down, and was then breaking thro' the Tiles and Lathing of his House. I sent a Servant out about 7 o'Clock, and he met a Countryman, who was bringing a Load of Hay from beyond Highgate, and who was on the other Side of the Town when the Shock happen'd; he did not, he said, feel it, as he was drivingh s Waggon; but that the People he saw in the Town of Highgate were all greatly surprised, saying they had had their Houses very much shock'd, and that the Chairs in some were thrown about in their Rooms. The Chamber I lie in is up two Pair of Stairs forwards, and my Bed stands North West and SouthEast. I took particular Notice, that there was neither Cart nor Coach going by, but that every thing was entirely quiet at the Time. X. 