I V . Experivzents upon Heate By MajorGeneral Sir Benjanzin Thompson; Knt. F.R.S. In a Letter to Sir Joseph Batlksy Bart. P. A. S. Read Jatluary 19, 1792e DEAR StR? Munic,f, yusle, 17879 SINCE my last communication upon the subject of HEAT, which the Royal Society harre done me the honour to publish in their Trarlsactions, I have made some further progress irl the investigation of that most interestitlg subject, of which I propose to give you an account in this letter. The confining and directitlg of heat are objects of such vast importance in the ceconomy of human life, that I have been induced to collfine my researches chiefly to tlaose pOilltS, conceiving that very great adsrantages to lmankind could not fail to be derirred from the discovery of atly nesv facts relative to these operations. If the laws of the communication of heat from one body to another were known, measures might be talien with certainty; in all cases, for confining it, and clirecting its operations, and this rould not only be productive of great aeconomy irl thearticles of fuel and clothing, but would likewise greatly increase the comforts and conveniencies of life; objects of which the philosopher should rlever lose sightc Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSON S Experix2ettts, CCe49The route which I have follouted in this irlquiry is that svhich I thought bid fairest to lead to useful discoveries. \Vithollt ern barrassillg myself with any particular tlneory I have formed to myself a plan of experinlental investigation, wTlaich I conceived wtould conduct me to the knowledge of certain facts, of vIzicll we are now ignorant, or very inlperfectly inforlned, and utith utllich it is of consequence that we should be lnade acquainted. The first great object which I had in view in tlais inquiry -was to ascertairl, if possible, the cause of tlae warluth of cert;ai bodies; -or the cirGumstances iAporl which tlleir povver of COl1 fining heat depe-nds. This, in other sverds is no otller than to determine the eduse of the conduc:tirlg and noll-conducting pourer of bodies. To this end I begatl by determinillg by actual experiment the relative conducting poners of various bodies of very diffe rent rlaturesa both fluids and solidsn of sonne of vvlaicll es?erilnents I llave already given all account in tlle Paper ab-vsre tnentioned, which is published itl the r:I'ransactiolls of the Royal Society for the year 1786; I sllall now, taking up the matter where I left it, give you the contintlation of the history of my researches. Having discovered that the Torricelliatl vacuum is a tnuch wTol^se conductor of heat than comlnon air, alld harrin-g ascertainedo tlle relative conducting powers of air, of waterv and of mercury, under dzfferent circumstances, I proceeded to exalnine the cc)nclucting powers of various solid bodies, and particularly of such sub$tances as are commonly made use of for clothing. The tnethod of making these experiments Fras as follows: a mercurial tllermometer , vvhose bulb svas about iSoSQ of an incll * See Phil.tRrans. Yol. f>XXlII. Tab. VI, Fig, + M;I)CCX(:XIo 1H Sir BEN J A M IN T HO MPSON Soin diameter, and itstube, about 1o inches in length, was suspexlded in the axis of a cylilldrical glass tube, abc)ut 4 of an finch in diameter, ending with a globe lI60 inch in diameter, in SUCil a manner that the centre of the bulb of the thermometer occupiednthe centre of the globe; atld the space between the internal surface of the globe and the surface of tlle bulb of the thermometer beingS filled with the substarlce Bhose conductitlg povver was to be determined, the instrument was heated in boiling svater, alld afterrards being plunged into a freezing mixture of pouIlded ice and water, tlle times of cooling were observed, alld noted do;svn. The tube of the thermotneter was divided at every tenth dew gree from o0 or the pOiIlt of freezing to 800, that of boiling water, and these divisions being tnarked upon the tube with the point of ar diamond and the cylindrical tube being left empty? the height of the tnercury in the tube of the thermoneter vvas seen through it. The thermolueter w-as conSined in its place by lmeans of a stopple of cork, about 1 I inch long, fitted to the mouth of the rcyllndrical tube, througln the centre of which the end of the tule of tl1e thermotneter passed, and in wllich it was cementtect. The operation of introducing illtO the globe the substances whose conductitlg powers are to bedetermined, is performed in the foIlowing manner ; the thermometer being taken outof the cylindrical tllbe about two-thirds of the substance which is to be the subject of tlae experiment are introduced into the globe ; after which, the loulb of the thermometer is introduced a fEw inches into the cylinder; and, after it, the remainder of the substance leing placed round about the tub of the tllermov lEwSeriments upon Heat.meter; and, lastly, the thermonleter beilag introduced farther into the tube, and being brought into its proper place, that part of the substance which being introduced last, remains in the cylindrical tube above the bulb of the thermometer, is; pushed down into the globe, atld placed equally round the bulb of the thermometer by means of a brass wire hich is passexl through holesmade for that purpose itl the stopple closing the end of the cylindrical tube. As this instrument is calculated ierely for measuring the passage of heat in the substance whose conducting power is examined, I shall give it the name of passage-thermometer, and I shall apply the same appellation to a11 other instruments constructed upon the same principles, and for the same use, which I may in future have occasion to mention; and as this irstrument has been so particularly described, both here, and ill my former Paper upon the subject of heat, in speaking of any others of the same kind in futtlre it vvill not b@ necessary to enter into such minute details. I shall, therefore, only men tiOIl their sires, or the diameters oftheir bulbs, the diameters of their globes, the diameters of their cylitlders, arl-d the lengths and divisiorls of their tubes, taking it for granted that this will be quite sufflcient to give a clear idea of the instrument. In most of my fornzer experimerlts, in order to ascertain the conducting power -of any body, the body being introduced into the globe of the passage-thermometer, the instrument was cooled to the temperature of freezing water, after which, being takell out of the ice waters it was plllnged suddenly ir}to boil.ing water, and the times of heating from ten to ten degrees were observed and noted; and I said thAt these titnes MJere as the conductirlg power of the body inversely; but in the experidH 2 Sir BENJA-M IN $ THOMP$0N Sments of which I am xlow about to give: an account, I have in general rerersed the operas-<ion; tllat; is to say, instead of observiag tlle X titnes of heatingn I have first heateEl the body in boilitag svater, andt-hen plungitzg it into a mixture of poul:leci ice and ice-cold vater, I 11ave lloted the times taken * t up 1to cvo lng. I have 13reterred this last method to the former, not only ot accotlnt of tEze greater ease alld convetlience with which a tllermotneter, plungedilltO a-mixture of water, luay be obsetvecls than wlletl placed ixl a vessel of boilingB wsater, and surrounded by hot steam) but also on account of the ;reater accuracy of tlne experimetat, tlae heat of boilitlg water varying +N7ith the variations of the pressure of the atmosphere: consquently the experime;lts tnade upon diffierent days will have different resultsn and of course strictly speaking, cannot be colnpared together; but the temperature of pounded ice Xclnd water is ever the same alld of collrse the results of the experi. * melats are 1lk1form................................... . Ill heating; tlle thermolmeterX I did not in general bring it to the temperature of the boiling water, as this temperature, as I have just observedX is variabIe; but when tlle mercury had attained the 7,go of its scale I immediateoly took it out of the boiling water, and plunged it into the ice and water; ora which I take to be still more accurate suSering the mercury to rise a degree or two above 7tSo and then taking it out of the boiling waters I held it over the vessel corltaining the potlnded ice and water, ready to plunge it into that mixture the moment the mercury, descending, passes the 7So IJaving a vatch at rny ear svhich beat half seconds (which I covOnted), I noted tlle time of the passage of the mercury Experzfflents eon ffiatXover the divisiolls of the: thermolueter, markillg yo° and every tenth degree from it, descending to lo° of the scale. I contillued the cooling to o0,or the temperature of the ice and vstater, in very fer illstances, as this took up much time, alld vas attended with no particular advantage the determination of the times taken up in cooling 60 degrees of REAUMUR'SV scale, that is to say, from 700 to joo being quite sufficient tO aswrtain the conducting power of any body whatever During the time of cooling in ice and wrater, the thermometer was constantly moved about in this mixture from one place to another; and there xvas always so much pounded ice mixed with the water7 tilat the ice appeared above the surice of the water; the vessel, svhich was a large earthell jar, being,first quite filled with poullded ice and tile water being afterwards poureda UpOll it; aIld fitSh quantities of pounded ice being added as the occasion required. Having described the apparatus made use of in these experiments, atld the manner of performing the diffirent operations, I shall nowprocted to give an account of the experitnents themselves. My first attempt was to discover the relative conducting powersiof such substances as are commonly made use of for clothillg; accordingly, having procured a quantity of raw 3ilk, as spun by the worln, sheets fwool, cotton wool, linen it the form of the finest lillt, beirlg the scrapings of very fine Irish lillen, the finest part of the Ar of tXJe beaver, separated from the skin and from the long hair, the finest part of the X fM fur of a white Russian hare, and Eider down; I introduced successively 16 grains in weight of each of these substances into tlle globe of the passage-thermometer and placing it carefu}ly The bulb of the therrnometer surrounded by air. ,,, Exp. No. 1. Exp. No. s. X E:xp. No. 3. N Time Time > Cre Time :i: elapsed. elapsed. elapsed. -7(3o _ 1 Q° -_ 600 ^ 38" 38" Q0° 391t oo +6 46 go° 4g4°° S9 59 400 53 3°° 8° 79 50° 67 20° 122 122 60 96 wo0 e31 230 7°° 17t5 _ .. __ ,. ... . . . Total times. ff76 S74 1 473 . / . s s sSir BENJA-MIN THOMP$0N sand equally rourud the bulb of the thermometer} I heated the thermometer in boiling vvater, as before described, and takitlg it out of the boiling water, plunged it into pounded ice -and water, and observed tlae times of cooling. But as the interstices of thesebbodies thus placed in the globe were filled with air, I first made the experiment with air alones and took the result of that experiment, as a standardby which to compare all the others; the results of three experiments with air were as follows: Experiments upon Heat.The followitlg table shows the results of the experiments, with the variolls substances tllerein melltioned :: f x X ; H ,oW t z t° o vo r W f Exp. 1. Exp. 4. Exp. 5. Exp. 6. Exp. 7. EXp. 8. Exp. 9. Exp. los ! . : = 700 _ _ _ _ _ 38 94 79/ 83" So'' 99X' 97tZ 8tt SO°s 46 zoo 9 9ti 9tS zo6ol7 zld 4C,> S9 tS 1o8 11:7 I 15 5tS 144 146 o o o 8 o z 8 G z 6 2 S 5 S 3 20') 122 27tS -238 221 P 218 265 27o 268 woo ag] 489 426 378 376 478 49+ 485 = Total times576 12 84 oI18 lo46 10S2 1296 11315 go Nout the warmth of a body, or its power to confine 1leat, being as its power of resisting the passage of heat through it (which I shall call its non-conductizag tower),and the titne taken up by any body in coolillg, hich is surrounded br any mediuln througll which the heat is obliged to pass, being cgleris paribasn as the resistance w-hich the medium opposes to the passage of the heat, it appears that the warxlth of the bodies tnentioaed in the foregoing table are as the times of cooling; the conductizag powers being illversely as those titnesn as I have formerly s aowwn. f rom the results of the foregoing experinlents it appears, that of the seven different substances made use of hares fur alld Eider down were the warmest; after tllese came beavers fur; rasN silk; sheep3s wool; cotton wool; and lastly, lints or the scrapings of fi-ne linen; but I acknowledge that the ozr BENJAMIN tHOMPSON sdiirences in the warmth of these substances were much les$ than I expected to have found tllem. Suspectirlg that thts ulight arise from tEle volutnes or solid contents of the substances being different (though their weights vvere the same-), arising from the difference of their specific gra vitTes; and aS it was llot eaSy to determille tlle specific gravities of tlaese substances witti accuracy, in orderto see izowt fir any knosvn diffieretace in the volume or quantity of the SAlNe substance) corlfined always in the salne spacen would add to, or ., . diminish the tirne of cooling or the apparent wartnth of th@ coveringX I made the three follouting experiments. In the first) tlle bulbof tlle thermometer was sulrounded by 16 grains of Eider down; ill the second lJy 32 grains; atld in the third by 64 grains; and in all these experirrlents the sub stalace was luade to occupy exactly the samge space, Nr jZ the whole internal capacity of the glass globe, in the celltre of which the bulb of the thermometer was placed ; consequelltly the thickness of the coveritlg of the thermometer remained the same while its density was varied irl proportion to the 1lum bers , , alad 4,. The results of these experiments ssere as follow * 4) ge ca E r 16 grains. 3s grains. 64 grains. (Exp. No. 1l.) (Exp. No. i2.) l(Exp. No i3.) 70 ! 600 97,t 1 1lll 12tr SQQ i 17 w28 1$o oo 1 45 <57 165 3sQ 192 207 224 20° M 267 so« 326 lQ'> 486 565 658 Total tanles 1304 1472 16 X SEwSerinzents upon Hevt.7The bulS of the thermometer being surrounded by Eider dowllWithout stopping at present to draw alay particular cconclasions from the results of these experiments, I shall p-roceed to give arl account of some others, which will affiord us a little further insight into the nature of solue of the circumstances upon whichthe warnlth of covering depends. Firadingn by the last experimellts, that the density of the covering adcled so considerably to the warmtil of it, its thick-ness remaining the same I was now desirous of discovering hosv far the internal structure of it contributed to render it more or less perarious to heat, its thickness and quantity of tnattzer remaining the same. By internal structuren I mean the disposition of the parts of the substance which forms the coverixlg; thus they may be extremely divided) or very fine as raw silk as spun by the BJorms and they may be equally distri&ted through the whole space they occupy; or they may be coarserv MDCC XC I I . I 8Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSO:N Sor in larger masses) with larger interstices as the ravelings of cloth, or ctlttings of threads. If heat passed t1frollgh the substances made use of fbr covering, arld7if the warmth of the covezing depended solely upon the difficulty svhich the heat meets with in its passage through the substances or solid parts of svhich they are composed; in that case,the warmth o:f covering would be -alutay-s2ccz-terisparibus,as the quantity of materials of which it is compc)sed ; but thal: this is not the case, the following, as well as the foregoing experi ments clearly elrince. Having, in the exyteriment N°-4, aseertained the warnath of 16 grains of raw silk I now repeated the experimellt with the same qualltity, -or weigllt? of the ravelings of svhite taffietyn and afterwards with a like quantity of common seu7ing silks cut into lengths of about two inches. The following table shows the results ofthese three experi ments -. E4erizgent3 on LIevt.Here, notsxithstanding that the quantitie$ of tlle silk svere the same in the three experiluents and though ila eacll of thelll it was lnade to occupy tlle same space, yet the wYarluth of the coverings svhich utere formed urere very diSerent, owillg to tlae diflSerent dlsposition of the tnaterial. The raw silk Btas vertr fine, and was voery equally distributed tllrough the space it occuItied, at1dL itforlned a vvartn coveringO Tlle ravelings of ta-tEety were also Sne, but not so fille (as the raw silk, and of course the interstices loetsveen its threads were greater, and itw was less warln ; but the cutt:ings of sewing silk were very coarse and collsequently it was very unequally distributed in the space in wllich it sMas corlfined; atld it tnade a very bad covering for collfitling heat. It is clear from tlle results Or the five last experiments, thatf the air which occupies the illterstices of bodiesn made use of for covering, acts a very importatst part Eita tlle operatioll of COllfining heat; yet I shall ?ostpone the exatlaination of that circumstance till I shall have given an acec)unt of several other experitnetltsn whichn I tlaink will tllrow still more light tIpon that subject. Butn before I go atly farther I will gis7e an account of three experiments BJhicll I tnaden or ratlaer the same experiment which I repeated tllree times the saule dayn ill order to see how ir experilnents made according to the method here described, may be depended on, as being regular in their results. Theglass globe ofthepassage-thermometerbeingfil]ed w7ith 16 grains of cottorl-vvool, the instrulnent ntas laeated alld cooled three times successivelyS when the tinzes of cooling were observed as follows: -Heatlost. Exp. 16. Exp. *87. | Exp. 18. , . . ... toO . , _ 600 82" 84" 83" soo 96 9S 9S 4°° w18 117 ]6 Soo 152 l SS 15 1 20° 2Q 1 22 1 220 loo 380 377 377 Total times 1049 1047 | °42a )Osir BEN J AMIN THOMPSON S'rhe diffierence of the times of cooling in these three experiments vere extremely sluall; but, regular as these experiments appear to have beerl in their results, they were not more so than the other experiments made in the same way, many of which were repeated two or three times, though, for the sake of brevity, I have put them down as single experiments. But to proceed in the accoutlt of my investigations relative to the causes of the sn armth of vvarm clothing. Having found that the fineness and equal distribution of a body or substance made use of to form a covering to confirle heat, contributes so much to the warulth of the covering, I vas desirous, in the next place to see the effect of condetlsing the covering, its quantity of matter remaining the same, but its thickness being diminisheel in proportion to the irlcrease of its density The experiment I made for this purpose was as folloBts:I took :16 graitas of common sewitlg silka neither very fine nor very course, atld winding it about the bulb of the therlmometer in such a tnanner tllat it entirely covered itX alad wras as nearly as possible of the same thickness in enrery part, I replaced the thermotneter in its cylinder and globe, and heatitlg it itl boilillg Experiments upon SIeat.wwater9 cooled it in iee and water, as in the foregoing experirnents. The results of the experiment vrere as mayf be seen in the following table; and itl order that it may be compared with t;hose made with the same quaratity of silk diSreretltly disposed oi; I have placed those experiments by the side of it:It is not a little remarliable, tlaat though the covering . . formedf of sewing silk 9found round the bulb of the thertnometer in the gth experitnent, appeared to have so little power of confining the heat wllen the instrument was very hot, or when it uras first plullged into the ice arl-d water yet afterwards, wilen the heat of the thermometer approached mt;lch nearer to that of the surrounding mediutn) its ponJer of confining the heat wllich remained in the bulb of the thermomezterJ appeared to be even greater than that -of the silk in the experimetlt No 1S, the tilue of cooling from 2c>0 to lo° being irl the one g'f, atld EY U C U ms E %5 E ;3 ' v ] M msS 5 2 d ,Rt g .z ag W-<ti,= .,-d; ,21n,; < X v EXp, 5Exp. 20. Exp. 6. Exp. 21. Exp. 7. Exp. 224 Exp. 23. 700 _ _ _ _ _ 600 79t! 46" 83" 45" So" 46" 42 $oo gs 63 93 bo 93 62 56 40° ow8 89 117 83 1 lS 83 74 go° w62 126 wG2 X 15 ^o 1 1 7 lo8 20° 2gg 200 22 1 179 2 18 180 168 loo 426 410 378 37o 376 38S 38 9, . Totstimes 1 l lt3 934 ro4,6 SS2 10,32 873 783 ^6XSir BENJAMIN THOMPSON2Ssn tlze other 34e't. Tlle sanwe appearance was observed in the following expe; iluelats, ill whlch the bulb of trhe thermometer was surrounded by threads of wool) of cottonn and of linen, or flaw, wound round itg in the like matlner as the sesvin; silk was wound rourld it in the last experiment. The follouring table shows the results of tluese experiments, B?ith the threads of various kinds, and that they may the more easily be compared u7ith those lnade witll the surne quantity of the same substances irz a dISerellt forrzz, I have placed the accounts of theseexperilnents by the sicle of each other. I have also added tlle account of an experiment, ln whicla 16 graitls Qf fine linen clotll were wrapped round the bulb of the thermometer, going round it nine titnes and beillg bound together at the top alld bottom of itX so as completely to cover itv Experiments upon LIeat.T-hat thread wound light round the bulb of the therl.nolueter should form a cosrering less warm tllan the same qualltity of wool or other raw materials of which tlle thread is tm.acle, surrotlnding the bulb of the therrnometer in a more loose mannel*, and consequently occupyirlg a greater spacen is no tnore than mThat I expected, from the idea I had formed of tlae causes of the warmth of covering; but I confess I was tnuch surprised to find that there is so great a diffierence in the relative warmth of these tsvo coverings, hen they are etnployed to confine great degrees of heat, and when the heat they confine is rnuch less in proportion to the temperature of tlle surrounding tnedium. This difference was very retnarkable; in tlle experiments vith sheep's wooln and with woollen thread, the vvarmth of the colrering forrned of z6 grains of the former, was to that formed of 16 grains of the latter, rhe-n the bulb of the thermometer was heated to yoo and c;3oled to 600j as 79 to +6(the surrounding medium being at oo); but afterwards, when the thertnometer Ilad only fallen froIn 20° to loo of heat the warluth of the wool was to that of the sntoollerl thread only as4,g6 to oo ; and in the experiments with lint, andwith linenA thread, when the heat vvas tnuch abatetl, the coverirlg of the thread appeared to be even warmer thall that of tlle lillt though iro the beginning of the experiments, wllen tlae heat was much greaterX the lint was warmer than the thread, in theL proportion of 8-o-to -+6. lFrotn hence it should seemq that a covering may, uncler Ct1'tain circumstan£es, be verygood for colzfining small degrees of warmths which would be but very ind-ifferellt hen made use of for collfining a rnore intense heat, arld zzEce verscr This, I believeJ is a new fact; alld, I think the knowledge of it xuay 64Slr BENJAMIN THOMPSON Slead to further dlscoveries relative to the: causes of the martnth Of coverings, or -the ulanner in w7hich heat makes its passage through themw But I forbear to enlarge vlpon this subject, till I shall have given an-account of several -otI<er experiinents, -which I think throw tuore ligilt upon it,nand w-hich will consequently render the investigation tasier atld more satis factory. With a viesv to detertnine how far the power which certairl bodies appear to possess of confirling heat, when nzade use of as covering, depends UpOll the natures of those bodiesn considered as chytusical substances, or UpOtl the chylmical principles of which they are composecIX I luade tlat folle3Nvitag experinzents. As charcoal is supposed to be cornposed altnost ent-irely of phlogiston, I thought that if tllat principle FtELS tlle cause either of the conducting posrrern or the riota -condlucting power of the bodies which contain its I should discover it by luaking the experiment w-ith charcoal) as I had done with variotls other bodies. Accordingly, having filled the globe of tlle passage thermotneter witll 176 grains of tleat substance it1 very fine pourder (it having been pounded in a 1nortar, and sifted through a fine sieve), tlle bulb of the tllerluonzeter leln; surrounded by this powder, the instrument was heated in boiling water, and being aftersvards plunged itato a mixture of pounded ice and vvaterX the times of cooling were observed as mentio1flled in the following table. I afterwards repeated tlle experiment svith lampblack, and with very pure, and very dry wood aslaes; the restllts of which experimerlts were as ullder nentioned * The bulb of the thermometer surrounded byo z76grainsofEne t76grainsofEne 195 grains of 307 grairls of powder of charpowderof charlampblack. purc dry wood X coal. coal. ashes. . Exp. No. 24. Exp No. 25. Exp. No. 26. Exp. No. 27. 700 600 79,, 9It' 124" 96 soo 95 91 a 18 92 400 zoo jog 34 °7 30° tS9 33 164 os6 20° 996 192 t 237 18S 10° 331 321 394 3Iz TotaI times. 940 937 117 t 9 2 7Experirnents upon HeatX6sThe experim^at, N° 25, BrAs silnply a repetition of that numbered 24, and was made immediately after it; but, in moving the thermometer about in the former experiment the powder of charcoal which filled the globe vas shaken a little together, and to this circumstance I attribute the diffierence in the results of the two experiments. In the experiments with lampblack and with wood asiles, the times taken up in cooling from 700 to 600 were greater than those employed in cooling from 600 to soo; this most probably arose from the considerable quantity of heat COl1tained by these substances, which was first to be disposed of, before they could receive and communicate to the-surrounding medium that fvvthich was contained by the bulb of the thermo sneter. NIDCCXCIIe K Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSON S6The next experiment I made was vvZith semez Iycopodii, c-omrnonly called witch-rnealX a substance which possesses very extraordinary properties. It is almost impossible to wet it; a quantity of it strewed upon tlle surface of a basin of water, laot only swims upon the water withollt being wetn but it prevents other bodies from being wet which are plunged into l;he water through it; so that a piece of money, or other solid body, may be taken from the bottom of the basirl hy the llaked hand, with out wetting tlle harld; which is one of the tricks comlmonly shovll by the jugglers in the country: this meal covers the hand, and descellding alotlg with it to the bottom of the basin clefell,ds it from the water. This substance has the appear arlce of all exceeding fine, light, and rery luoveable yellonr powder, and it is very itlflamlnable; so Inuch son that beilag blown out of a quill into the flame of a candle, it flashes like gunpowder, and it is lnade use of in this manrler in our theatres for imitating lightning. Conceiving that there nust have been a strong attractio between this substance and air, and suspecting, frotn some cir culustances attending sonze of the foregoing experiments, that the warlmth of a covering depends not merely upon the finelless of the substance of which the covering is formed, and the dispositiorl of its parts, but that it arises in some measure frotn a certain attraction between the substance and the air which fills its interstices I thought that an experiment with semen Iycopodii might possibly throw some ligllt upon tllis matter; and in this opinion I was not altogether mistalien9 as will ap pear by tlle results of the three following experimerlts. a ^ The bulb of the thermometer surrounded by 2S6 grains of semen Iycopodii.. * Q . Cooled. Cooled. 4, t Heated. @, . = Exp. No. 28. Exp. No. 29. < Exp. No. 3o. 7 0 r W _ O 60° 1461t 3LeS7" °° 2^30 ,§0° 162 1 60 20° 68 4°° 17S 170 30° 63 so° 209 gos 4°° 76 20° 284 288 so° 92 I 10° 502 S13 60° 3I6 -7° ls85 . I , Total times. l 478 149 I _ 2459Experiments apon Heat.67In the last experiment (NTo So) t11e result of wl-wicl-l was so very extraordinary? the instrument rwas cooled to oo in tllaw ing ice, after which it was plunged uddenly into boiling wa ter, where it reluained till the inclosH thermQlneter had acquired the heat of 700, vvhich took up no less than 24tS6 se-conds, or above 40 minutes; and it had remained In the boiling srater full a minute and an half before the mercury in the thertnometer shewed theleast sign of rising. Having at length beerl put into motion, it rose very rapidly 40 or 50 degrees, after which its motion gradually abating became so slonr, that it took up $8rS seconds, or solnething lsore than 26 minutes, in rising from 600 to 700, though the temperature of the medium in which it was placed during the whole of this time was very nearly -800; the mercury in tlle barometer standing but little short of 27 Paris inches. K 2 G8Sir BENJAMIN rHOMPSON SAll the differerlt substallces which I had yet luade use of i these experiments for surrounding or coverirlg the bulb of the thermometer, fluids excepted, had, in a greater, orin a less degree, confined the heat; or prevented its passing i}ltO or out of the thermometer so rapidly as it would have done, had there been rlothing but air in the glass globe, in the centre of which the bulb of the tllerluometer was suspended. Btlt -the great question is, hosr, or in hat manner, tlley produced this effect ? And first, it was not in consequence of their own non-conducting powers, simply considered; for, if illstead of beillg only bad conductors of heat, we suppose them to have been totally impervious to lleat, their volumes or solid colltents were so exceelingly small in proportion to the capaciwty of tlle globe in which they vzere placed, that, had they had no effiect svhatever upon the air ISlling their interstices, that air w-ould have been sufficielat to have conclucted all the heat commullicated, in less tilone than was actually taken up in the experiment. The diameter of the globe being ,6 inclles, its contents amounted to 2,l4466 cubic itlches; atld the contents of tlle bu--lb of tlle thermometer being only o,o871 z of a cubic inchy (its diameter being or of an inch) the space between the bulb of the thermolaleter and the internal surEace of the globe amounted to ,l446-60,o871 290,57a5SS cubic illclles ; the whole of which space was occupied by the substances by which the bulb of the tlaermometer was surrounded in the experi ments in questione But-though these substances occupied this space they were far from filling it; by much the greater part of it being filled y by the air vvhich occllpied the interstices of the substances in questiotl It1 the experiment Nto 4, this space was occupied Experitnents upon Heat.9by z6 grains of raw silk; and as the specific gravity of raw silk is to that of waXr as 17g4 to looo, the volume of this silk svas equal to the Yolume of 9,4422 grains of water; and as l cubic inch of water weighs 25S,-l8tS grairls, its volume tas equal to 2 95'34,4 8 5 o-o,og72g4 of a cubic inch; and, as the space it occupied axnounted to 2,oG7$S---cubic inches, it appears that the silk filled no more than about -5I5 part of the space in which it was confirled, the res.t of t:hat space being filled vvtith air. In the experiment N° , when the space betsveen the bulb of the thermometer and the glass globe, in the centre of hich it was confiled, was filled vvith nothing but air, the time taken up by tlle thermometer in cooling from 700 to loo was 576 seconds; but in the experiment N° 4 vvrhen this samespace was filled Witil 54 parts air, and 1 part raw silk, the time of cooling was 1 284 seconds. Now, supposing that the silk had been totally incapable of conducting any heat at alls if we suppose, at the same tilne, that it had no power to prevent the air relnaining in the globe from cotlducting it, in that case its presence in the globe could only have prolonged the time of cooling in proportiotl to the quantity of the air it-llad displaced to the quantity xemaining, that is to say, as o is to +, or a little more than lo seconds. But the time of cooling w-as actually prolotlged 708 seconds, (for in tlle experilauent Nto , it vvas j76 seconds, atld in tlle experiment NQ a it svas 1284: seconds, as has just been observed); and this shows, that tlle silk not only dict IlOt conduct the heat itself, but that it prer7ented the air by svhich its interstices were filled frc)m conducting it; ox, at lefasts it greatly weakened; its power of conducti-ng ite 7O>sir BENJAMfN THOMPSON SThe next question whi(la arises is, how air can be prevented from conducting heat ? and this necessagly involves another, which is, how does air conduct heat ? If air conducted heat, as it is probable that the metals and water, and all other solid bodies and unelastic fluids conduct it, tllat is to say, if its particleso remaining in their places, the heat passed from vne particle to another, through the uThole mass as there is no reason to suppose that the propagation of heat is llecessarily irl right lines I cannot conceive llow the ir2terposition of so small a quantity of atly solid body as 5I5 part of the volutne of the air could have effected so re rnarkable a diminution of the conducting power of the airX as appeared in the experiment (N° 4) with raw silk, above lnen tioned. If air and water conducted heat in the same ntanner, it is more than probable that their conducting po-wers might be itnpaired by the same means; but when I made the experirnent vith water by fillitlg the glass globe, in the centre of which the bulb of thethertrlometer was suspended, with that fluid, arld afterwards varied the experiment by adding 16 graitls of rawsilk to the water, I did not find that the conclucting power of the water was sexlsibly impaired by the presetlce of the silk. But we have Just seen thsat the same silk, luixed with all equal volume of airv diminished its conducting power in a very remarkable degree ; consequently) ther-e is gl eat reason to conclude that water and air conduct heat in a diffierent mannere But the followitlg experiment, I think, puts the matter beyorld a11 doubt. It is well knownn that thepowzer whicll air possesses oF Experiments apon lie%ta71holding water in solution is augmented by heat? and dituinished by cold, atld thatn if hot air is saturated Uwith water and if this air is aRerwards cooled a part of its water is necessarily deposed. I took a cyliildrlcal bottle of very clear transparent glass, about 8 irxclnes ill dialueter) atld 12 inclles high, with a short and llarrow neck, and ssuspenditlg a small piece of linen rag, tnoderately wet, in tlle tnicldle of it, I plungecl it into a large vessel of water, warmed tQ about lQ° of itahrellheitns thermometer, where I suffered it to remain till the contained air was not olaly warm, but thoroughly saturated witnh the snoisture svhich it attracted from the linen rag, the mouth of the bulb being well stopped up during this titne with a good corl; this being donev I removed tlle corlE for a monzent, to take away the linen rag, and stopping up the bottle again immediatelys I took it out ofthe warm water, and plunged it into a large cylindrical jar, -ahout 12 illtheS ill diameter, and ld inches higln, containing Just so tnuch icecold water, that, when the bottle was plunged into it, and quite covered by it, the jar was quite full. As the jar was of very fine transparellt glass, as well as tlle bottle, alad as tlle cold water contained ill the jar was perfectly clear, I could see svhat passed itl the bottle most distinctly; atld having taliell care to place tlae jar upon a table near the svindowg in a very favourable lightn I set myself to observe tlle appearances which silould take place, with all that anxious expectation utllich a conviction that the result of the experimeilt must be decisive naturally inspired. I mras certaill, tllat the air contained in the bottle could not part with its heat, svithout at tlle same time, that ss to say, at the same 2SQmeSt9 and in R.e snze placen parting with a proportiola Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSON Sof its water; if, therefore, the lleat penetrated the nnass of air from the centre to the surEace9ortassed throzxgh it from particle to particle, in the same mallner as it is prolba.bie tizat it passes through water, and all other unelastic fleuids, by far the greatest part of the air containe(l in the bottle vvould part with its heat when not vctually in contt with tbe glass, and a proportional part of its water being let fall at the same time, and in the sa?ne place, Mtould necessarily descend in the form of rain; and, though this rain rrlig,ht be too fine to be visible in its descent, yet; Iwas sure I should filld it at the bottom of the bottle, lf not in visible drops of water,yet in that kind of cloudy covering which cold glfass acquires from a contact with hot steam or w-atery vapour. But if the particles of air, instead of cotnmunicating their heat from one to another, from -the centre to the surface of the bottle, each in its turn and fbr itself, came to the surface of the bottle, and there deposited its heat and its water, I concltlded that the cloudiness occasioned by this deposit of svater would appear a11 ourer the bottle) or, at least, not more of it at the ltottom than at the sides, but rather less; and this I found to be the case in fact. rrhe cloudiness first made its appearance upon the sides of the bottle, near the top of it; and from thence it gradually spread itself downsvards3 till, grosving fainter as it descended lo^rer, it was hardly visible at the distatlce of half an iNCll from the bottom of the bottle; and upon the bottom itselfn which was nearly flat, there vas scarcely tlle smallest appearance of cloudiness. These appearances, I think, are easy to be accounted for. The air immediately in colltact witll the glass beillg cooled, and Experiments upon Heathaving deposited a part of its mJater upon the-surface of the glass, at the same titne that it communicates to it its heat, slides downnvards by the sides of the bottle in consequence of its increased specific gravitJr, arld, taking its place at the bottoln of the bottle, forces the whole mass of hot air upwards ; wllichs in its turn colnring to the sides of the bottle, there deposites its heat and its water, and aftervwrards bendin; its course downwards, this circulation is contirlued till all the air in the bottlen has acquired the exact temperature of the water in the jar. Frorn hence it is clear wlhy the first appearance af conden$ed vapour is llear the top of the bc}ttle, as also why the g-reatest collection of vapour is in that part7 and that so very small a quantity of it is fourld nearer tlle bottom of tlle bottle This experiment confirmed lue in arl opinion which I llad for sotne time etltertained, that, though the particles of air individuallyn or each for itself, are capable of recei-vilag alld transporting heat, yet air in a quiescent state, or as a fluid whose parts are at rest with respect to each other, is not capable of conductlng it, or giving it a passage; ill short that heat is incapable of passing thro4gZ) a mass of air, penetrating: from one particle of it to another, and that it is to this circum$tance that its non-conducting power is principally owing. It is-alsfo to this circumstance, in a great measure, that it is owing that its non-conducting power, or its apparent urarmth when emplotred as a covering for coilfining heat, is so reluarkably increased upon being mixed with a s;nall quantity of any rery fine, light, solid substance, sucla as t;he raw silk, fur, Eider down, &c. in the foregoing experiments: for as I have already observell, though these substances, in the very small quantities in which they wSere made use of, could hardly have prevented, AlDCCXClle IJ Sir BENJAM IN THOMPSON S4in any considerable degree, the air from conducting or giving a passage to the heat, had it been capable of passing tllrough it, yet they might very mucll itnpede it ill tlle operation of . . * transportlng lt But there is another circumstan(e vllich it is zecessary to take into the accounts and that ls the at-tract;ion which subsists between air and the bodles above merltioned, and other like substances, coastitutitzg 1latural and artificial clotlling ForS though the incapacity of air to give a passage to heat in the manner solid bodies and notl-elastic Huids pertnit it to pass through them, may ellable us to account for its wrarmth under certain circunstancess yet the bare a(lmission of this principle does not seem to be sllfficierlt to account for the very extraordi nary degrees of wwarmth which we find in furs and in feathersn and in various other kinds of natural and artificial clotlhing ; nor evetl that which we find in snowt ; for if we suppose the particles of air to be at liberty to carry off the heat which txshtse bodies are tneant to confineX without any other obstruction or hitaderance than that arising from their vis inerti or the force necessary to put them in motion, it seems probable that the succession of fresh particles of cold air andl the consequent 1QSS of laeatn vvould be much tYlore rapid than we find it to be in fact. rrhat an attraction andl a -arery strong onen actually subsists betveen the particles of air9 and the fine hair or furs of beaStS9 the feathers of birds, WOOlg &C. appears by the obstillacy with which tToese substances retain tlle air sYhich adheres to themg even when ilutnersed in vvater and -put ulader the receiver ofan airwputnp; and tllat tllis attraction is essexltial to the Varmth of these bodiesX I thilak is very easy to be demon -strated Experim-ents 8pon Heat.In furs, for instance>the attraction between theparticles of . . . air, and the fine hairs in u7hicll it is concealed, being greater than the inc!reased elasticity, or repulsion ofthose particles with regard to each other, arising froln the heat cozntnunicated to them by the animal body, the air in the firs tllough heated9 is not easily displaced; and this coat of confined alr is the real barrier wilich defends the animal body from the external cold. Tlais air cannot ctzrry o¢ the heat of the anitnalX becatlse it is itself confined, by its attraction to the hair or fiur; and it transmits it with great difficulty, if it transurits it a11, as has been abundantly show by the foregoing experiments. Herce it appears why those furs whicla are tlne finest, longest; andl thickest, are likesvise the warmest ; and how the furs of the beaver, of the otterS and vf c:tlher like guadrupeds which live much itl water, and the feathers of water-fowls, are able to confine the lleat of those animals in winter, notvitlastanding the extretne coldlless arld great conductillg power of the water in which they swiln. The attraction between these substances, and the air which occupies tlleir interstices, is so great,that this air is not dislodged even by tlle contact of * water) but remailling in its place, it defends the body of the animal at the same time from being wet) and frorn being robbed of its heat by the surrounding cold fluid ; and it is possible that the pressure of this flllid upon the covering of air confined in the interstices of the furf or feathers, tnay at the sametime increase its warmth; or nonoconducting power, iil such a nanner that the anitnal may not, in fact, lose more heat when itl water3 t;han when ill air: for we llarre seen by the :foregoing experiments, that, under certain circuna$tances, the warmth of a covering is increased, lJy bringing its cotnponent parts nearer together, or by L 2 76sir BENJANqIN THOMPSON Sincreasing its density even at the expence of itS5 thickness. But this point will be filrther investigated hereafter. Bears, wolves, foxes, hares, and other like qlladrupeds, inhabitants of cold countries, svhich do not often take the watery have their fur much thicker upon their backs than upon their bellies. The heated alr occupying the lnterstices of the hair$ of the animal tending nattlrally to rise upwards, in consequence of its increased elasticitys would escape vith much greater ease frorn the backs of quadrupeds than fronz their bellies, had not Providence wisely guarded against this.evil by increasirlg the obstructions in those parts, whith entangle it and-confine it to the body of the animal. And this, I think, atnoullts almost to a proof of the principles assumed relative to the tnanner in which heat is carried off by air, and the causes of the non-conducting po-wer of air, or its apparent warluth, +hell, S being combined with other bodies, it acts as a coverirlg for confining heat The SllOWS which cover the surEace of the earth in winter inhigh latitudes are doubtless designed hy an all-provident Creator as a garrnent to deMend it against the piercing winds from tlae polar regiolls, which prevail during the cold season These winds, notwithstaladig the vast tracts of continent over hich they blosr, retaiXl their sharpness as long as the ground tlaey pass over is covered wtll sno-w ; and it is not till, meeting sviftil the ocean, they acquire, from a contact with its waters, the heat which the snors prevent their acqeliring from the earthn that the edge o;f their coldness is takela oW, and they gradually die away axld are lostO The winds are always fotlnd to lbe much colder when tlle ground is covered ^tith snow than vvherl it is bare, an;d this Experiments upon Heat.extraor(linarycoldness is vulgarlysuppo.sed tc) be cczmmunicated to the air lby the snonv ; but this is an errontous opinion; fvr these winds are in general mucll colder than the snow itself: Teley retaila tlleir coldness, because tlle snow prevents tllem from being warlned at the expence of the eartll; eand this is a strikirlg proof of the use of the snows in preserving the heat of the earth dalring the winter, in cold latitudes. It is retuarkable that these winds seldom blow from the poles directly towards the equator, but from tlle land towards the sea. Upon the eastern coast of North America the colcl winds come from the north-west; but upon the westerIl coast of Europe, they blow from the north-east. That tlley should blQW tosvar(ls those parts wkhere they can most easily acqllire the heat they are in: search of, is not extraordinary; alld that they shotlld gradually cease and die away, upon being svarrned by a contact with the waters of the ocearl, is likewise agreeable to the nature and causes of their nnotion ; and if I might be allowed a-conjectllre respecting the principal use of the seas, or the reson why the proportion of water upon the surface of our globe is so great, compared to that of the land, it is to maintain a =nore equal temperature in the difNerent climates, by heating or coolirlg the utincls which at certain periods blow from the great corltillents. That cold uTinds actually grour -much milder uporl passing oarer the sea9 and tIzat hofs wilads are refresned by a contact Wittl its waters, ls very certain; and it is equally certain that the winds from the ocean are, in zll clilnates, lnuch more tempe rase than tTlose wlaichblow from 4bhe land . In the islatids of Great Britairl and Irelarld, there is not tlle least doubt hast thy great mildness of tlle cliluate is entirely 78Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSON Sovv7ing to their separation from the neighbouring continent by so large a tract of sea; and in all similar situations,in every part of the globes similar causes are found to produce similar effects. The cold northwest winds, which prevail upon -the coast of North Alnerica durilag the winter, seldom extend abon7e loo leagues from the shore-, and they are always fourld tc) be iess violent, and less piercirlg, as they are further froln the land. lthese periodical winds from the continents Or Europe and North America prevail most towards the end of the montlk of FebruaryX and in the month of March; alld I conceive that they contribute very esselltially towards bringing oll an early sprilag, an(l a fruitful summer, particularly when they are very violent in the moni;h of March, and if at that tirne the grourld is well c-overed with snow. tlnhe whole atmosphere of the polar regions bein;, as it were, transported into the ocean by these winds, is there waruled and saturated . . . wit l water : and, a great accumulatic)n of air upon tlie sea being the necessary consequence -of the long cotltinuance of these cold w;nds from the-shore, upon their ceasing the warm breezes from the sea necessarily commence, and, spreading themselves upon the land far and widej assist the returning sun in dismantlirag the earth of the remains of her winter garmellt, and in bringing forward into lifE all tlae manifold beauties of the new-born year This warlmed air which comes in frolm the seas havitlg acquired its heat from a contact ntith the ocearl, is, of course, saturated with water; and herlce the wtarm showers of April and WIay? so necessary to a fruitful season. Experiments uponHeat.9The ocean maat be considered as the great resereroir and equalizer of heat ; arud sts benign influences itl preservilag a proper temperature i] the atmosphere operate in all seasons and irl all clirrlates. The parching w;lds frotn tize larld under the torrid zone are cooled by a contact with 1tS waters, alld, itl returr) the breezes from tlle sea whlch, at certaill hours of the day come in-to the shores in almost all hot coutltries, bring with them refreshment, and as it wee, new life and vigour both to tlle anirnal and vegetable creatsont fainting and melting under the excessive heats of a burnixlg sun What a vast tract of country, now the tnost fertile uporl tlle face of the glLobe, would be absolutely barrell and: urlinhabitable ola account of the excessives heatg were it not for these refreshing sea-breezes > And is it not more than probable, that the extrernes of heat and of colcl in the differetlt seasons in thetemperate and frigid-zones srould be quite intolerable, were it llot for the influence of the ocea in preserving an equability of tetnperature ? And to these purposes the ocean is wonderfullywell adapted, not o:tlly on account of the great pouter of vtater tcy absorb heatg and tlle vast depth atld exte:lt of tlle diffierent seas (which are sucll that otze saulner or one winter could hardly be supposed to have atly sensible eSect in heating or cooling this etlortnous-Xmass) ; but also on accoutat of the continual circulation which is Garried oll itl the ocean itselfg by means of the currents whicll prevail in itv The waters under the torrid zorle being cJarried by these currents towards the polar regions, are there coolesl by a contact with the cold1 svinds, and, having thus cotnulutaicated their heat to these irlhospitable regions 80! Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSONVS EEeriments @c }Seturn towards the equator9 carrying with them refreshment for those parching clilmates. The-wisdom and goodness of Providence have often been called in question with regarEl to the distribution of land and water upon the surface of our globe, tlne vast extent of the ocean having been considered as a proof of the little regard that has been paid to man in this distrlbutionv But the more light we acquire relative to the reat--corlst;tutiotl of tllings, and the various uses of the d;erent parts of the visible creation the iess we shall be disposed to irldulge ourselves in suchfrivolous crltlclsms. 