VI. Observations on the Class of Sweet Tastes, made by comparing the Tastes of Sweet Plants with Monsieur L' Emery's Chymical Analysis of them, in his Treatise of Drugs, by Sir John Floyer. I Observe that by our Taste we may discern all the Chymical Principles in Plants before their distillation, and that for want of a due observation of their Tastes, Mr L' Emery has not fully described the Chymical Principles which Plants do yield in Distillation. All Watery Plants shew their Phlegm as well to the Taste as in Distillation; and in all dry woody Tastes we observe the Earth, as well as we can by the Chymical Analysis. By the acrimony and Gummyness, or Oily Taste, we distinguish the Oyl of Plants, as well as by Distillation. The Aromatical Smell shews us the volatility of the Oyl and Salt of Plants, and by the ~ we also know that the Oyl and Salt are in a volatile state. By the acrimony and pungency we know that there is a Volatile Salt in Plants, and by their burning taste we find there is a Corrosive Salt in them. By a crude rough Acidity we observe the Tartar, or essential Salt of Plants; but if the Acidity be of a Vinous smell, we observe that 'tis of middle state of Digestion, and (1161) and may be called a Vinous Tartar, and the Crude Tartar an Acerb Tartar, but if the Tartar had a pungent smell, then 'tis a Volatile Tartar, or Acid Acrid Tartar. I will next describe the principles observable in Sweet Tastes, and their several Classes, but mustfirst observe that Sweet Tastes shew their Oyl by their slimy smoothness,and their Tartar is evident in their extracts, as in the juice of Liquorish. 1. The Grass sweetens gramen caninum have much essential Salt and moderate Oyl, Juncus equisetum, arundo, typha, nymphaea, are all of the Rush kind, sweet and rough, and some of them have more Oyl, others more Acid, and that the most crude have more Oyl than Tartar. 2. The Corn Sweets, as Barley, Rye, Wheat, Oats, Rice, Millet, have much Oyl and essential Salt, and a little Volatile: So Bread yields Oyl and Essential and Volatile Salt. Note, that Fermentation or the Fire produces the Volatile Salt, by exalting the Tartar into a Volatile Salt; and the slimy mealiness in Corn supplies the Oyl. Tragopogon and Scorzonera are referable to the Grass, and contain much Oyl, and essential Salt. 3. The Subacrid Sweets,as Rampions, campanula, trachelium, contain much Oyl and essential Salt, but the Acrimony in these Plants shews a Volatile Salt not described by the Chymist. 4. The Ferns contain Oyl and Essential Salt, as Polypody; but the Acrid principle is not observed by the Chymist, nor the fragrancy in Harts Tongue Osmunda and the Capillaries have more Oyl than Salt, because more mucilaginous and crude. 5. All the Leguminous slimy Sweets have more Oyl than Tartar, but all much of both, as Broom, Ononis, Aquilegia, fumaria, Asparagus, ruscus, thalictrum, polygonatum Sena, galega, lathyrus, luteola, periclymenum, glyciriza, psyllium, much Oyl and Volatile or Essential Salt. R r r r r r r Beans (1162) Beans and Peas and Lentils have also a Volatile Salt and lens aquatica. Note, that since there is no Acrimony in these Seeds, the Volatile Salt is produced by the Fire The Aromatic Legumens, as Melilotus, have an exalted Oyl, and essential Salt. Periclymenum is described to have only essential Salt and Oyl, but since there is an Aromatic Odor in the flavour, and a great Acrimony, there must be some degree of Volatile Salt in it. Fenagreke and Meadow Trefoyl have much Oyl and little Salt,and so has Ophioglossum pinguicula & consolida regalis. 6. The sweet Nuts, as Almonds, have much Oyl and essential Salt, but the bitter have more Salt than the sweet Almonds, therefore 'tis probable that the Tartar abounds more in all bitters, and that Tartar is the effect of a higher digestion, and the crudest Tastes, as Styptics, Sweets and Slimes have least of it. So Chesnuts and Beech-nuts have much Oyl and little Salt. Filberds are described to have essential Salt, and a little Volatile as well as Oyl; but it seems no probability that one may have it, and none in any of the other. 7. The Sweet Acid or Vinous Tastes have much Oyl and essential Salt, as Prunes, Cherries, Strawberries, Rasberries. The variety of the Tastes of these Fruits shews the different digestions and mixtures, tho the principles are the same. The Sweet Viscous Fruits, as Sebestens, have little essential Salt, and much Oyl. 8. The Sweet Aromatic Burning Tastes contain a Volatile Salt and Oyl, as Schenanthus, Ginger, Zed-Oary, Cubebs, Cardamums, Vaynillas, contrayerva calamus arcmaticus; but these following are mistaken by the Chymist, who say that Costus amarus, dulcis, cyperus, galanga. Orris, have a Volatile Oyl, but essential Salt only, for Orris is Acrid and Aromatic as well as the rest, and therefore there is both Volatile Salt and Oyl in them, and also an essential Salt from.their sweetness. 9. The (1163) 9. The sweet Acrid Aromaticks of the Faenil Class have all a Volatile Salt and a Volatile Oyl, as Angelica, Lovage, Parsly, Meum, Dill. Note, The Leaves and Roots of Faenil contain a Volatile Oyl and Essential Salt, the Seed a Volatile Oyl and Sait; but since the Roots and Leaves have a pungent Taste, there is also a Volatile Salt in them, tho the Chymist do not observe it. All the parts of Carraways have the odor of Punaises, except the Seed; from whence I may infer, that the faetid Plants have the same principles as the Aromatics, viz. a Volatile Oyl and Salt; and this is confirmed by other faetids which have them, as Rue and Assa faetida, and Vulvaria. Peucedanum is <inferred>descibed</inferred> ofr a bitter acid Taste, with the odor of Pitch, and must have a Volatile Salt, tho L'Emery describes only its essential Salt and Oyl: So in Smallage he describes only the essential Salt and Oyl, but its Acrid Taste manifests the Volatile Salt. 10. The Sweet Gums, as Manna, Sarcocolla, contain much Oyl and essential Salt; tho Honey and Sugar have more essential Salt than Oyl; by which we may observe how much essential Salt is in all Sweets, and why they are apt to turn sowre, and ferment; and from such sweet Gums all sweet Plants have their Acid and Oyl upon Distillation. 11. Citrulls, Melons, Gourds, Cucumbers, which are bitter Sweets, and very mucilaginous, contain much Oyl and little Salt. Since the whole Classes of Sweet Plants contain an Oyl and Essential Salt, some more some less of both, the Vertues of the several sweet Tastes can never be explained by the Chymical Principles, and no new Virtues by them is discovered; therefore all the advantage we have obtained by these Chymical Distillations is only to shew the nature of Sweetness in general,by discovering the principles contained in sweet Plants,and this is a greater advantage to Natural Philosophy than to Physick, to which the tasting of Plants is more useful. By the Taste we distinguish the Sweets into their several Classes, and we discern tempers and digestion, and mixture of their principles, and hence easily guess at their effects in Animals, and by the Taste we distinguish the different state of both the Oyl and Acid in Plants of different sweet Tastes; whereas the Chymists observe no difference of the Tartar Acid, whether it be Acerb, or Vinous, or Volatile; nor of the sweet Oyls from the bitter and slimy. R r r r r r r 2 By (1164) By the Taste we distinguish the Acrid and the Acid Salts, which mix in distillation; and they are not well distinguished by the Chymists. By the Taste we discern when the Fire makes new products and mixtures, not naturally found in Plants; for in Corn, Beans, Peas, Bread, Fire produces a Volatile Salt not observable in them before: And a Volatile Salt is drawn from the lees of Wine by the Fire; and Leven yields also a Volatile Salt; whereas before in Corn only an Oyl and Acid were observed; and 'tis probable that the Tartar is Volatilized, both by the Fermentation and the Fire. Coffee is a Bean by its Taste and Cods, and acquires a Volatile Salt by roasting; but L' Emery only mentions its Oyl and fixed Salt upon Distill tion, but the fixed Salt is the effect of Fire, and its virtue depends on the Volatile. No more Chymissry is necessary for the discovery of the Physical Vertues of Plants, than to make Decoctions of them in fair Water, and to observe the Tastes and other sensible qualities of those Decoctions, and from them to take the natural hints for the ~ of their Virtues on Animal Bodies. I will confine my self to the Class of Sweet Tastes, and give an account of several Decoctions made in all the species of sweet Plants, and add some Tastes I had not formerly described fully, and such reasons as induced me to place them in the Class of Sweet Plants. I hope these objections against Decoctions, that the Volatile parts expire, and the mucilage dissolving in the Water obscures the Taste: I therefore do confess, that Plants are best tasted in their natural state to discover all their Vertues, but these Decoctions do help to confirm our Tastes, and discover the great variety of Medicines which may be made from Sweet Tastes. Note, that all Decoctions must be tasted cold. A Description of the Tastes and other sensible qualities in the Decoctions of Plants of the Sweet class. 1. THe Grass Sweets, under which are contained all sorts of Grasses and Rushes, Reeds and Corn; I refer Nymphea Alba to the Rushes, both for its figure and taste, which is crude and styptic, with a bitterishness in the Seed; but the flowers are <inferred>like</inferred> Lillies of a sweet smell, and mucilaginous, sweet, styptic in Taste. I (1165) I boyled Horse-tayl a handful in a pint of Water, and I found the Decoction to taste very Styptic with a bitterishness, and the Decoction looked like Small Beer, the Taste being like Rushes: I concluded it to be of the same Class. The Styptic Virtue is useful for all Fluxes. Plantago aquatica boyled in Water gave a Caustic Acrid Taste, joyned with a crude rush Taste; the Decoction was greenish and pale. This Caustic Acrimony is useful in the Scurvy and Dropsy. It is aranunculus, by its capitula echineta, as well as by its Acrimony. Nymphaea Lutea has a sweet Astringent ~ in the Flowers, with an Acrid smell like Cresses. A Reed is of a sweet bitter and mucilaginous Taste, it absterges by the bitter without Acrimony, and cools by the Muciiage Subacrid Styptic, by which tis a Rush. Sagittara is Sweet, Subacrid and Styptic, by which it is a Rush~ Alga Marina is Subacrid and Sweet, and something Styptic. Fucus is of a sweet Saltish Taste. The Palm-Tree is Sweet and Styptic, and because of this Taste and its solia arundinacea, I refer it to the sweet Styptic; a sweet Vinous Juice flows from its Bark being wounded, the Immature Fruit is very Styptick, but the mature sweet, viscid, vinous, and subastringent, proper for Fluxes. Wine, Vinegar and Sugar are made from the sweet Juice. The Inspissate juice of the Palm Tree is the Terra <inferred>Japonica</inferred>, whose substance is gummose, and of a bitterish Styptic Taste, and also of a sweet Taste, and of a grateful odor. Boyl ~ of Terra Japanica in ~ of Water, and sweeten it for a Cough or Looseness. Leven is observed by AEtius to be cool by its acidity, to be hot being putrid, and also to have some Virtue from the Salt and Flower. He observes that Beer is hotter than Barley, and because of its putrifaction 'tis of an ill juice; and he also observes, its Windiness depends on the Air included in it; and the Waterish Beer and the Acid is cooling. All these Virtues were discovered by the sensible qualities of Leven and Beer, without Chymistry. And we may observe that what we call Fermentation in them, was called by AEtius a Putrifaction. We have rectified the notion, and given it a new name, but the Antients knew the nature and effects of Fermentation as well as the Moderns; and 'tis that which gives the different states of the principles in Plants, and the several states are best discovered by our Tastes and Sences~ I <inferred>boyl</inferred> (1166) I boyled Gramen spica secalina, and the Decoction was of a sweet, mucilaginous and styptic Taste. The Roots of Grass have something of Acrimony and Astriction, but the Decoction tastes smooth and sweetish. The green Leaves of Grass are sweet and styptic. The Decoction of the Water was of a pale colour. The Seeds of Grass are more diuretick and binding, I made a Decoction of them, which resembled Water-gruel. Paronychia foliis rutaceis must be referred to the Grasses, because of its sweetness. 2. Quere whether Rapunculus be not of the Sweet Class, because the whole Plant is Sweet and Milky, and for that both are given to Nurses to increase Milk. The Roots of the rampions are something styptic and cooling, and proper against Inflamations. Scorzonera and Tragopogon are referrable to the Grasses, because of their geniculate Stalks, their Grassy Leaves, sweet Tastes and Milky Juice, the Decoction was smooth and of a pale colour. Trachelium is also Sweet, Milky, Subacrid, and Bitterish, of the same class. 3. The sweet mucilaginous and crude Lychnis, the decoction of Alsine, is sweetish and mucilaginous, the colour pale like Small Beer. I could observe no astringency in Alsine. I boyled ~ in a pint of Water, it hath a cooling and moystning quality like common Lychnis. Dioscorides says, Chickweed being bruised has the smell of a Cucumber. All the common Lychnis's are bitter sweets,and them I shall refer to the class of Bitters, tho their joynted Stalks and Sweetness may justly place them here, yet their chief Physical Virtue is from their Bitterness. 4. The Sweet Bitterish Styptic, and Subacrid Fern. I boyled ~ of Fern Roots in ~ of Water to half, the Taste was very Styptic and Bitterish, the Colour Citron. The Mucilage and Stypticity make Fern an excellent Vulnerary, and Styptic in all Fluxes: the young Buds rubbed in the Fingers swell something like a kernel, or the Laurel smell. Dryopteris is described Astringent and Sweet, Acid and Bitterish. Hemionitis has both Astringency and Bitterness. Adiauthum album & nigrum are Sweet and Styptic,and since Experience shews these to be good Pectorals, the other Ferns have the same Pectoral Vertue, as Vulneraries. Herniaria is described as a Styptic. In (1167) In Adianthum there is something odorate. L' Emery. Polypody is Bitterish, Sweet and Astringent, Nauseous and Subacrid and Slimy, it purges by this Taste both Choler and Flegm. I boyled Harts Tongue ~ in ~ of Water to half; it was of the colour of Small Beer; the Taste was Mucilaginous, Sweet, Styptic, with an Aromatick flavor of Rasberries or Orris, which is its Cordial Vertue, joyned with Stypticity and Mucilage, by which 'tis proper for hot Hypochondriacs. The Roots of Osmunda are of a Subacrid and Bitterish Taste, besides the Astringency, by which they open, but the Astringency much hinders that effect. 5. The Sweet, Acrid, Aromatics and Faetids, the Roots have more Sweetness and Aromatic Acrimony than the Leaves, which are more crude; the Seeds have most Aromatic Acrimony. The Seeds of Siler montanum have an ungrateful smell like Cummin, and a Bitterish Taste. Peucedanum is Bitter and Sweet. The Green Leaves of Coriander are faetid like Punaises. Laserpitium is Acrid, Aromatic in Smell, and of a Sweet, Acrid, Aromatic Taste. Sampire is of an Acrid Aromatic Taste, and the Smell of Smallage. Cumin is Acrid, Aromatic and Bitterish, and of a disagreeable Smell. Dracumulus Hortensis is sweet like Anis. Ferula has an ungrateful Aromatic Odor. The Seed of Meum is bitter. Cachrys is Bitter, Acrid, Aromatic. Cancalis and Daucus agree in Virtue and Taste. Saxifragia pratensis has a great Root, Sweet and Acrid; the Leaves are most Aromatic, and the Seeds; it resembles the Taste of Parsly. The Leaves of Gingidium are of a disagreeable strong smell,and the Roots bitter. Tordylium is Sweet, Aromatic, gravi odore. Percipier is like Chervil, and so is Pecten Veneris. I refer the Umbells to the Grasses, because of their Sweetness and Joynted Stalks. Our Botanists have omitted the sweet Taste in some of them, which are bitter. Most of them are of an Aromatic Smell and Taste, but some are faetid, virose and fervid in their Taste. <inferred>Smyr-</inferred> (1168) Smyrnium Root has the smell of Myrrh, with a Bitter ~ Taste, and it helps the Urine and the Menses like it. The colour of the Specifick Juice is varicus: Thysselinum and Seseli praterse have a Milk: The Ferula's are Milky, or have a Saffron colour: Their Juices make Sagapenum and Galbanum. The Juice of the Root of Peucedanum is reddish, and is called Opoponax odore piceo vinso. The Root of Syphondylium has a Saffron coloured Juice,of a faetid and bitterish Taste. Tis observed that some Seeds grow bitter by the fault of the soyl in which they grow. All of this class have a Volatile Oyl and Acrid Salt, by which they are diuretic, carminative, and pectoral, also by their sweetness, Emmenagogue, if faetid. I boyled Parsley Roots ~ in ~ of Water~ to half, the Taste was Sweet, and Acrid, Aromatic, the Colour pale. The Roots of Meum are Acrid, and smell strong; too much of it offends the Head. Libanotis has the smell and taste of the Seed of Angelica. Sium or Apium ~ fol. Oblongis has an odor of Bitumen on all the Plant. Thysselinum is Bitter, Ingrate and Acrid. The Decoction of Angelica Roots are bitterish, Aromatic, Acrid, and of a yellowish Colour. Imperatoria Roots decocted smelled like Angelica, and tasted very Bitter and Acrid; of a green Colour. 6. The Sweet, Acrid, Terebinthinate and Styptic. Calamus, Nardus, Cyperus, agree in their Diuretic, Carminative and Emmenagogue Virtue, and their Stypticity, &c. Calamus resembles a Reed; it is an Acorus, the Taste resembles the Turpentine Plants, as well as its Cones. Juncus odoratus is a Rush, with the smell of a Rose, when rubbed of a Burning, Acrid, Aromatic and Bitterish Taste. Cyperus is of a pleasant Odor, like Lign. Aloes whilst it flowers, and of an Acrid, Aromatic, Bitterish, Styptic Taste. Nardus resembles the flavor of Cyperus; 'tis Bitterish,Astringent, Acrid and Aromatic. The Roots of Cyperus are used for Nardus. There is some faetor in <inferred>Valerian</inferred>, Asurum, Serpentaria, whose Roots have a little Sweetness, with a Terebinthinate Bitter Acrid, and all of them resemble Spikenard odoris gravitate, and have the same Diuretic, Carminative, Emmenagogue Vertue, and are proper for Malignant ~; and a little Styptic. The (1169) The Red Valerian has a crude Taste in the Stalks and Leaves, the Flowers rubbed smell like Turpentine; the Leaves smell nauseous, faetid; the Roots agree with Spikenard. Spica Celtica and the Flowers of Valerian agree well. The Leaves of Wild Valerian boyled in Water yield a crude and faetid. Mucilage. The Tincture of the Roots of Valerian, extracted with Spirit of Wine and Sal Armoniac, fines it much. The Roots of Asarum are Geniculate as ~, and taste very Acrid, Aromatic and Bitterish; 'tis called Sylvestre Nardum, and for its similitude referrible to it. The Antients attributed the same Virtue to Asarum as to Acorus, but more intense and strong. Galen observed that Phu was an Odorate Root, like Nardum in virtue. Pliny observed that Cyperus was a Gladiolus bulbosa radice, and like the Odor of Nardum. The Decoction of Ascirum was greenish, with a strong smell of Spikenard, and Bitterish Acrid. The Decoction of Valerian Roots of the same Taste, but pale colour, and smell of Spikenard, but weaker; they seem to be of the same Class. 7. The Sweet, Fervid Acrid, Bitterish, and Aromatic like Orris in Taste. The Roots of Orris are Geniculate like Grass. The Florentine Roots are bitterish and sweet, and of a burning Taste. The Water Flag is burning and styptic, but of no smell; the Flowers of common Orris have an ill smell, tho the Roots be Aromatic. The whole Herb smells like Elder whilst 'tis fresh bruised, but when dry 'tis Odorate; it gives a Rasberry Taste to Drinks, and purges. The great Galangal is Aromatic, Acrid, Burning and Bitterish; the Roots also geniculate, odorate; in form like Cyperus. The Roots of Acorus are geniculate, acrid, burning, bitterish and aromatic; it resembles Orris both in Leaves and Roots. Ginger is acrid, burning and aromatic like Pepper; the Leaves are like Iris Palustris. Zedoairy smells like Camphire, and is of a strong Taste, rather than sweet, 'tis very bitter, and less acrid; but resembles Ginger. Costus is very burning, acrid and aromatic, and bitterish; it agrees with the vertue of Orris, both in its discussing quality and deobstructing. S s s s s s s Costus (1170) Costus Dulcis has a sweet Taste, and acrid; but the bitter has an ungrateful kind of Taste; but there is but one species of Costus, the fresh is sweet and white, the old is bitter and blackish. Gladiolus has a bulbose Root, sweet, and moderately acrid or burning; and the Leaves are like Orris. Xyrs is of an ungrateful faetid odor, like Cimices; in form and figure like Orris. Costus Arabicus is acrid, bitter and aromatic in Taste. The Roots of Contrayerva smell like Fig-leaves, are like Orris Roots in figure, they being chewed; taste sweet, aromatic and acrid, and have also an astringent Taste. Cardamomum has the Stalk and Leaves of a Reed, the Seeds in cods of a burning; acrid, bitterish, aromatic Taste. Amomum by its external figure and virtue agrees with Cardamomum; some reckon it like Acorus. Grana Paradisi are of a faetid and aromatic Taste, betwixt Cardamums and Pepper, and agrees with the same in vertue in Paralytic cases. The Grains of Paradice infused in Wine gives the odor of Quinces. Salmon. The Roots of our yellow Flag are large and reddish; our Countrymen scrape them and pound them, then mix them with Milk, and give them twice to a Dog, as an infallible Medicine against the bite of a Mad Dog. A person who took them told me they did not purge, but tasted very rough: The Decoction is of a reddish colour, and rough. 8. The Sweet Mucilaginous Pea-tastes, or Legumens. I boyled Vicia ~ in ~ of Water to ~, which tasted sweet and crude styptic, the colour was pale and greenish. I boyled Lens Palustris in the same manner, and found the Decoction of a turbid colour, and reddish like Mum; it is a Legumen by this Intense Colour, as well as by the Taste, which was Sweetish, Subacrid and Styptic. Note, that Snails and other Insects are usually mixt with it. I boyled Lagopus in the same quantity as the other; the Taste of the Decoction was styptic, crude and bituminous. The Cortex Lentium is styptic and binding; the Seed of it mucilaginous and loosening; and this breeds an ill, flatulent and crude Juice, obstructing the circulation of the Blood and Spirits, injurious to the Sight and Menses; and by their slatulency producing turbulent Dreams. The (1171) The Leaves of Liquorish feel gummose, the Roots are sweet and subacerbe. Tamarinds are of an acid, acrid and sweet mucilaginous Taste; the Stones have the figure of ~, the Leaves of Tamarinds; are of an acid agreeable Taste; and they must be referred to the Services and Barberries, tho by the Cods and Seeds I erroneously have class'd them with Cassia or Lupins. Fumaterry is subacrid, bitterish, mucilaginous, and a mealy, tho the Flowers be not. Radix Cava has bitter sweet Roots like Beans, and a mealy subacrid Taste; the Leaves have a crude smell like ~, and of the same virtue. The Skin of the Bean is styptic, but the fleshy part bitterish leguminous. Coffee is bitterish and of the Bean kind, in which there is a Volatile Salt, which raises the Spirits, and produces Urine and the Menses. Orobus is of an ingrateful bitterish Taste; all the bitter Legumens open obstructions and promote Urine, as Kidney Beans, &c. I boyled Broom ~ in Water ~ to ~, the Taste was moderately bitter, sweet and styptic, not nauseous, and without any heat. I boyled of Genista Spinosa rootes ~ in ~ of Water to ~, the Colour was like Small Beer, the Taste mucilaginous, styptic~ without any great bitterishness or acrimony; the Root tastes bitterish, mucilaginous, styptic; it may be proper for the Stone by those Tastes, and for Fluxes. The Leaves of Bruscus have the smell of Broom when bruised, and its bitterishness and stypticity and sweetness, and are subacrid; and by this Taste a Legumen. Crato describes Sena as if it had Viscidum quid,by which it gripes; and by the Taste he discovered the bitterishness and astriction. Matthiolus observed its viscous Taste and bitterishness, with a virose nauseous odor, like Cynoglosse or Punica. The siliquae, as well as the sweet taste and flowers, prove it a legumen. Polygala boyled with the Blue Flowers gave a Colour Blue like Violets, and the Taste was very mucilaginous, the Plant is aromatic, acrid. ~ of Violatri Color boyled in ~ of Water to half, made a Decoction of a Greenish Colour, like Cowslip Wine, and it tasted gratefully and mucilaginous; the Roots of Polygala are acrid and aromatic; it purges Bile. The Decoction of the Root of Periclymenum is styptic and bitter, and of sweet leguminous Taste. <inferred>pur-</inferred> (1172) Purple Trefoyle is mucilaginous and styptic,by which it cools Feaverish heats, and by its burning acrimony it expel the putrid particles in Petechial Feavers and Fluxes. The Leaves of Red Trefoyl rubbed smell acid, and the Flowers bruised smell like Woodbind. The Decoction of ~ in ~ of Water to half gave a Greenish Colour, pale; and the Taste was of a crude mucilaginous leguminous Taste, with an acrimony, by which 'tis a great Diuretic and Ophthalmic. The Decoction of Purple Trefoyl has a turbid Colour, and mucilaginous Taste. The Leaves of Periclymenum are acid and acrid; the Flowers more sweet, the style is of a Bean Taste, and the Twigs of the same. The Stamina have the Taste of the Flower,and their Heads are very acrid. Trifolium Fraticans is Bacciferous, with a Blue Juice, and tho it wants Cods 'tis a Legumen, as well as Periclymenum, which is bacciferous. The Flowers of Asparagus are hexapetali, and of an Herbaceous color; the Seed is a Pea, without a Cod, the Root is of a sweet glutinous acrid Taste; the tops of it boyled resemble Peas Pottage, and are evidently of a Leguminous Taste. In the Legumens these are irregular, in Flowers or Cods, they are notwithstanding certainly of that Class; by which we may infer, that the Taste gives the most certain character of a Class. The Herba Mimosa has an Herbaceous ~, and a mucilaginous bitterish ingrateful Taste; the Root is of a Tasts more ~, without bitterishness, but of a violent smell like Garlick when first got, offending the Smell and Head, and is accounted a Poyson, ~. Mesue observes that Psyllium has contrary Virtues; 'tis of a mucilaginous, acrid and nauseous Taste: The Medulla is hot and exulcerating; the Cortex is moystening and cooling. Gossipium is a Plant like Linum, both in Leaves, Flower and Stalk. There is a bitterness in Linaria Morson. Linaria is by its Flower of the Leguminous Class,and probably Linum is of the same,tho the Flowers disagree, being like it in Leaves. Linseed has the same virtue as Fennugreeke, which is a Legumen. The Leaves of Flax are gummose and bitterish, subacrid; the Flowers are Pentapetali, which differ from the Legumens. I boyled ~ of Galega in ~ of Water to the half, the Color was pale, the Taste nauseous, bitter sweet and mucilaginous, and the Odor nauseous and faetid. The fresh Leaves of Trifolium Asphaltites smells like Rue, when ripe like Bitumen. The Decoction of Ononis was mucilaginous, subacrid, the Colour was Greenish. The Leaves of Consolida Regalis are of a crude smell, the Seeds are in Cods and Taste leguminous. The whole Plant is of a disagreeable Taste. Glastum and Opioglossum are of the same virtue, and Luteola is like them; place them here or with the Cresses. Thalictrum must be referred to the Docks both by its taste and virtue. Lignum Nephriticum is subacrid and bitterish. L O N D O N, Printed for S. Smith and B. Walford at the Princes Arms in ~ Pauls Church-yard. 1702. 