An easy way of raising Fruit-trees to what numbers any desires; communicated to the Publisher, by Mr. Lewis of Totnam Highcross. TAke a piece of the root of any Apple-tree or Pear-tree, &c. about six inches long, and tongue-graft a graft of an apple or pear into the root. The way of Tongue-grafting is, to cut the root sloping about one inch, and the graft sloping in like manner one inch; cutting both very smooth. Then cleave the root and the graft likewise about one inch, and enter them into one an other, that the sap of the graft may joyn to the sap of the root as much as you can. Lap the joynted place about with a little hemp or flax-hurds; set the root so grafted into the ground about ten or twelve inches deep, so as the joynt may be covered at least four inches under the earth, that it may not be bared at any time, but kept moist by the Earth. The root you graft upon, must not be less than your graft; it is no incenvenience, if it is bigger; then you can joyn the sap of the graft and root only on one side. It is best that the root and the graft be of the same bigness; then they will joyn on both sides: But there is no need you should be critical. It is not necessary, the Graft should be of one years growth: Your Graft may be any fair streight branch, as big as a mansfinger, five or six foot long, provided the root be proportionable. L l l l l l The (6068) The Roots of young trees are to be preferred before the roots of older trees, because they will be more apt to take in sap and nourish the branch grafted into them. The best roots of all, are those that come of kernels,which may be drawn at one,two or three years old, according to their growth One plant must yield several Roots according to its bigness. The Informer assures us,that 29 years since he sowed a bed of applekernels in March, in which year he planted an Orchard of Apple-trees and Pear-trees that cost 12.d. the tree. The spring following he pluckt up 40 of those seedlings, grown to the thickness of a fair grast, he grafted them in this manner of tongue-grafting, and planted them again. They all grew, and four of them bore fruit to perfection that year; so that in a year and half from an apple:kernel he had ripe fruit. Four of those trees, bought at 12d. the tree, died; for want of a better supply, four of these trees thus grafted were planted in the rooms of those which died. These four trees will now bear two quarters of apples upon a tree; and are bigger than most of those trees amongst which they stand, which cost 12. d. the tree, when these were Kernels. He doth conceive,that plumbs, cherries, apricotts, peaches, and all sorts of fruit-trees may be thus raised; but he hath not made an Experiment any further then upon apples and pears. If any desire to be further satisfied of the executive part of this, and the success of it, they may repair to Totnam High-Cross four miles from London in the road to Ware, where they themselves may see this performed. 