James Parsons M.D. F.R.S. to the President, concerning the same. S I R, G I V E me Leave, among others, to communicate such Facts as I know, or have been informed of, concerning the Shock that happened last Thursday. Read March 15. 1749. Between 5 and 6 in the Morning I was awaked by a violent Motion of the House, with a great Noise resembling the Fall of some heavy Body overhead: At waking I found my Bed move very much; but in my Surprize could not distingusih what kind of Motion it might be, as to its Direction; this M m m m being [634] being momentary, as well as my Surprize, I saw and heard the China rattle upon a Cabinet in my Chamber, and perceived a trembling Motion in the Room for several Seconds. My Wife was also disturbed; and asking what was the Matter, I said I felt a Shock, which I believ'd to be like what had happen'd that Day Month: She answer'd, if this is one, I felt another about 2 this Morning, while you slept. I immediately look'd at my Watch, and saw it was six or seven-and-thirty Minutes after 5. I observed a Light shine in at my Windows more than was natural; and from the Redness of the Sky, and Clearness of the Morning, concluded the Sun was rising; but imagin'd it something strange it should rise so many Minutes sooner than was usual upon the 8th of March: upon which I rose, and went to my Window, which looked Eastward, and then saw it was a red Light only, extended from about N. N. E. to S. E. which I take to be that mention'd by the Rev. Dr. Miles last Thursday. Then I went into the Square, where several Servants came out of their Houses much frighted. They all felt it the same Way; and several Labourers and Market-People told me they were shaken very much as they walked, and that all NewgateMarket was in the greatest Confusion imaginable, no one thinking himself safe. The greatest Part of those I spoke to about it heard the same Sort of Noise that occurr'd to me at the time. Many complained all Day of great Sickness at the Stomach, and Head-aches; I had the latter three or four Hours after it; and others of my Acquaintance [635] Acquaintance felt Pains in the Back the greatest Part of that Day. At Mary'-bon it was universally felt; and with the greatest Violence imaginable. At one House where I was at 12 that Day, a Maid-Servant said, she was thrown first to one Side, and then back to the other; and many compared it to the Rocking of a Cradle. I inquired particularly of such as were thus rocked, about the Situation of their Beds, and observed, that, tho' all described the Motion to be from Side to Side, their Beds were in all Directions. As to the Shock which was said to be felt at two the same Morning, there can be no Doubt of it; for I went to several Families in my Neighbourhood, who positively asserted it to be true; but all said it was not so strong as that which happened afterwards; nor could any one say he was awaked by it: On the contrary, all those, who felt it, said they were awake before it happen'd. As for myself, I did not perceive it, being asleep; and therefore I should be inclined to think the Motion to be insufficient to disturb a sleeping Person; for I am easily disturb'd. There is a strong Report of a trembling Motion being felt at two on Friday Morning following, which lasted not long, and another at four the same Morning which lasted several Minutes, without any Noise. I met Counsellor William Swinburn, of Devonshire-street, who told me, that Mr. Love, an eminent Apothecary at Westminster, declared to him, thathe had Occasion to be up thatNight, and was very sensible of those trembling Motions both times; and I have been since inform'd, that one Mrs. Marshal of Queen's-Square felt the Motion M m m m 2 about [636] about two that Morning, but was not sensible of the other. I also made some Inquiries concerning the Extent of the Shock of Thursday Morning, and was inform'd by John Wolffe Esq; a great Studier of Nature, that he wrote to his Gardener at his House at Hasely-Court near Tedford in Oxfordshire about it, with Orders to go to Henley upon Thames, and inquire whether it was felt there, and he wrote back Word, that the Market-People who came there from twenty Miles round knew nothing of it. I was also informed by Mr. Sherwood of this Society, that it was not felt at Horn-Church, a Gentleman having sent his Servant on purpose to know; nor any further that Way than Ilford. It was also felt at Stanmore, but not at Watford, five Miles further. I was Yesterday in the City, and a Gentleman said, the Fish in his Ponds were remarkably disturbed by the Shock, and that many of them leaped quite out of the Water upon the Bank; and while he was relating this, another came in, who said, the same happen'd in a Pond of his, and in that of another Gentleman in his Neighbourhood at the same time. I am, Sir, with great Respect, Thursday, March 15. Your most humble Servant, 1749-50. J. Parsons. XXI. 