PHILOSOPHICAL TRAN SACT ION S, Xl. On the Causes which influence the Direction of the Growth of Roots. By T. A. Knight, Esq. F. R. S. In a Lelter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read March 7, i8ii. I HAVE shewn, in a former communication, the effects of centrifugal force upon germinating seeds; from which I have inferred that the radicles are made to descend towards the earth, and the germs, or elongated plumules, to take the op. posite direction, by the influence of gravitation; and I believe the facts I hlave stated to be sufficient to support the inferences I have dr awn.* But the fibrous roots of plants, being mucl less succulent, though not uninfluenced in the directions they take by gravitation, are, to a great extent, obedient to other laws, and are generally found to extend themselves most rapidly, rand to the greatest length, in whatever direction the soil is most favourable: whence many naturalists have been disposed to believe that these are guided by some degrees of feeling and perception, analogous to those of animal life. I shall proceed to state some of the facts upon which this* Phil. Trans. x8o6, ist Part, page S.MDCCCXI. E e 210 Mr. KNIGHT 0 the Causes whic.h influece hypothesis has been founded, and others which have occurred in the course of my own experience, an d which are favourable to it; after which I shall endeavour to trace the effects observed to the operation of different causes When a tree, which requires much moisture, has sprung up, or been planted, in a dry soil, in the vicinity of water, it has been observed, that much the largest portion of its roots has been directed towards the water; and that vihen a tree of a different species, and wlhlich requires a dry soil, has been placed in a similar situation, it has appeared, in the direction given to its roots, to have avoided the water ax d moist soil. A tree growving upon a wvall, at some distance from the ground, and consequently ill supplied xwith food and water, has also been observed to adapt its habits to its situation, and to make very singular and well directed efibrts to reach the soil beneath, by means of its rootsa. Durinng the period in which it is malking such efforts) little addition is made to its branches, and almost the whole powers of the plant appear to be directed to the growth of one or snore of its principal root S. To these much is in consequence annually added, and they proceed perpendicularly towards the earth, unless made to deviate by some opposing body: and as soon as the roots have attached themselves to the soil, the branches grow with Vigour and rapidity, and the plant assumes the ordinary habits of its species. Du HAMEL caused two trenches to be -made so as to intersect each other at right angles, and a tree to be planted at the point of intersection; and taking up this tree some years afterwards, he found that the roots had almost wholly*S M1 Tf'S Introduction to Botany. the irection of the Growth of Roots. 1 confined themselves to the trenches, in which the soil of the former surface must have been buried. A trench whihh was txwenty feet long, six wide, and about two deep, was prepared in my garden, in the bottom of which trench was placed a layer, about six inches deep, of very rich moulld, incorporated Xjith much fresh vegetable matter. This was covered, eighteen inches deep, with light and poor loamn, and upon the bed thus feormed, seeds of the common carrot (Daicws carota) and parsnip (Pastinacc s&`iVa) were soved. The plants grew f eblv till near the end of the suiniaer, wlx.cri the, assumed a very Iuxuriant growth, grew ra idly till late in the autumn, -and till their leaves were injured by frost. The roots were then examined, and were found of an extraordinary lengthi and in form almost perfectly cylindrical, having scarcepy nit-ted any lateral fibrous roots into the poor soil, whilst the rich mould beneath was filled with them. In another experiment of the same season. the preceding process was reversed, the rich soil bein0 placed it on the surface, and the poor beneath. The pants her grew very luxuriantly, and acquired a considerable size early in the summer; and xhen the roots were taken up in the autumn, they were found to have assumed very di ferent. forms. The greater part had divided into two or more unequal rami. ficatioc, vrTv nr'ar the suirface of the griound, and those wnlhilh Were n-ot Chus divTided tapered rapidly to a point at the sU7, 2 of-1c ith ar 1s:'oXl., iato xvid.a f off thcir ibrsus roots haA C~pA1 c >, In otfie exao-r, eut seeds of almost all the common esculent plants of a garden -vere so placed that the ujIg :Ylants had an or-yU11i y of selecting either t, r poor soil IEeq 212 Mr. KNIGHT on the Causes which influence which was disposed, in almost every possible wvay, within their reach; and I always found abundant fibrous roots in the rich soil, and comparatively few in the poor. The following experiment afforded the most remarkable result, and one the least favourable to the hypothesis which I have advanced in a former Paper,* and to the conclusion which I shall now endeavour to support; and therefore I think it necessary to describe it very minutely. Some seeds of the common bean (TVicia faba), the plant with which many former experiments were made, were placed upon the surface of the mould in garden pots, in rows which were about four inches distant from each other. A grate, formed of slender bars of wood, was then adapted to the Surface of each pot, so as to prevent. both the mould and the seeds falling out, in whatever position the pots might be placed; and the bars were so disposed, as not at all to interfere with the radicles of the seeds, when protruding. The pots were then directly inverted; and the seeds were consequently placed beneath the mould; but each seed was So far depressed into the mould, as to be about half covered: by which means each radicle, wvhen first emitted, was in contact with the mould above, and the air below. Water was then introduced through the bottom of the inverted pot, in sufficient quantity to keep the mould moderately moist; and, the pots being suspended from the roof of a forcing house, the seeds soon vegetated. In former experiments. ? wherever the seeds were placed to vegetate at rest, the radicles descended perpendicularly downwards, in whatever direction they were first protruded ; but under the preceding circumstances they extended horin* Phil. Trans. 18o6, page i. t Ibid. he Direction of tkre Growth of Roots. 213 zontally along the surface of the mould, and in contact with it; and in a few days emitted many fibrous roots upwards into it: just as they would have done, if guided by the instinctive faculties and passions of animal life; and as I concluded before I made the experiment that they would do, under the guidance of much more simple laws, whose mode of operating I shall endeavour to explain. Whatever be the machinery by which the sap of trees is rased to the extremities of their branches, it is obvious that this machinery is first put into action by the stems and branches, and not by the roots: for the graft or bud, whenever it has become fully united to the stock, wholly regulates the season and temperature, in which the sap is to be put in Motion, in perfect independence of the habits of the stock; whether those be Late or early. If all the branches of a tree, exclusive of one, be much shaded by contiguous trees,* or other objects, the branch which is exposed to the light attracts to itself a large portion of the ascending sap, which it employs in the forn'ation of leaves and vigorous annual shoots, whilst the shaded branches become languid and unhealthy. The rnotion of the ascending currient of sap appears therefore to be regulated by the ability to employ it in the trunk and branches of the tree; and this current passes up through the alburnum, from which substance the buds and leaves spring. But the sap x vhich gives existence to, and feeds the root, desc-n&ds tflrougIh the bark :t and if the operation of light give ability to the exposed branch to attract and employ the ascending or alournous current of sap, it appears not improbable thlat the operation of proper food and moisture in the soil,0 Phil. Trafis. iSo5 and 18o9, p. 8. t Phil. Travis. iiog, ist Part, p. i. 214 Mr. KNIGHT on the Causes which Influence upon the bark of the root, may give ability to that organ to attract and employ the descending, or cortical current of sap and if this be the case, an easy explanation of all the preceding phenomena immediately presents itself. A tree growing upon a vall, and unconnected with the earth, will almost of necessity. grow slowv1y, and as it nust be scantily supplied with moisture during the umner, it will rarely produce any other leaves than those which the buds contained, which were formed in the preceding year. Solne of the roots of a tree, thus circumstanced, will be koss well supplied with moisture than others, and these will be first affected by drought: their points will in consequence become rlgid and inexpansible, and they will thence generally cease to elongate at an early period of the summer. The descending current of sap will be thetn employed in promoting the growth and elongation of those roots only, which are more favourably situated, and those comparatively with other parts of the tree, will grox rapidly. Gravitation will direct these roots perpendicularly downwards, and the tree will appear to have adopted the wisest and best plan of connecting itself w ith the groun d: and it will reaily have employed the readiest means of doing so, as efiectively as it could have done, if ithad possessed all the feelings and instinctive passions and powers of animal life. The subsequent vigorous growth of such a tree is the natural consequence of an improved and more extensive pasture. When, the seeds of the carrot and parsnip, in the experinents I have stated, were placed in L poor superficial soil, but which permitted the roots of the plants to pass readily through it, these were conducted downwards by gravitation wlist t he D 1i o oC h e Growth f Roots, the plants grewv feebly, because they received b it little n'u X ment. The roots were in a situation analogous to thrat of stems of trees in a crowded forest; and vhen the leading fibres of the roots came into contact vith the rich mn Ad they acquired a situation correspondent to that of the la in.g branches of such trees, which, are alone exposed to the light. T he frna of the roots of the plants was consequently long, slender, and cylindrical, like the stems of such trees. The roots of the one required the actual contac, of proper soil and nutriment; and the branches of the other required the actual contact of light, to promote their growth. When, on the contrary, the seeds of the preceding species of plants were placed in a rich superficial soil, their situation was analogous to that of a tree fully exposed, on cv evry side, to the light, whose branches would be extended il e very direction, immediately above the surface of the ground: and as the fibrous roots-of the plants camne into contact witth the subsoil, which was not well calculated to promote th eir growth, their situation became analogous to that of shaded branches; and they consequently ceased to extend downwards. The fibrous roots of a tree, under similar circunstances, would bave extended along the lower surface of the favourable soil; but after these roots had much increased in bulk, they would be found partly compressed into the subsoil, however poor and unfavourable, provided it contained no ingredients actually noxious. In obedience to similar laws, the roots of an aquatic tree will not extend freely in dry soil, nor those of a tree which requires but little moisture in a wet soil; Oand on hois account the roots of the one will appear to have sought, aid those of the other to have avoided, the contiguous wvaterT Mr. KNIGHT of the CGhses which ityuence though both, in the first period of their growth, pointed their roots alike in every direction. When the seeds of the bean, in the experiment I ha ve den Scribed, were placed to vegetate beneath the nould of an inverted pot, a sufficient quantity of moisture was afforded by the mould to occasion the protrusion of the radicles: but as soon as the under points of these had penetrated through the seed-coats, their surfaces were necessarily exposed to dry airl anid were consequently rendered rigid and inexpansible; whilst their upper surfaces, being in contact with the moist mould, remained soft and expansible. If both the upper and lower surfaces of the radicles, at their points, had been equally well supplied with moisture, gravitation would have attracted the sap to the lower sides, where newv matter would have oeen added; and the radicles would have-extended perpendicularly downwards, as in form r exp srii: en is but the influence of gravitation was, to a great extent, counteracted by the effects of drought upon the lower sides of the radicles, neariv as it was counteracted by centrifugal force, when made to act horic zontally.* As soon as the radicles had acquired sufficient age and nmaturity, efforts were made by them to emit fibrous roots; x hen want of proper moisture on the lower sides prevented fl-eir being protruded, in any other direction, except upwards. In. that direction therefore they were alone e nitted, (as I was Confident that they would before I began the exi periment) and having found proper ibod and moisture in the pots, they extended thenisclves upwards -throughl More than half the motild, which these contaitned.I Phil. Traiis. o6, p. 6. the Direction of the Growth of Roots. 217 This experiment was repeated, and water was so constantly and abundantly given, that every part of the radicles was kept equally wet; and they then became perfectly obedient to gravitation, without being at all influenced by the mould above them. In other experiments pieces of alum and of the sulphates of iron and copper were placed at small distances perpendicularly: beneath the radicles of germinating seeds, of different Species, to afford an opportunity of observing whether any efforts would be made by them to avoid poisons; but they did not appear to be at all influenced, except by actual contact of the injurious substances. The growth of their fibrous lateral roots was, however, obviously accelerated when their points approached any considerable quantity of decomposing vegetable or animal matter: and when the growth of the roots was retarded by want of moisture, the contiguity of water, in the adjoining mould, though not apparently in actual contact with them, operated beneficially: but I had reason to suspect that the growth of roots was, under these circumstances, promoted by actual contact with the detached and fugitive particles of, the decomposing body, and of the evaporating water. The growth and forms assumed by the roots of trees, of every species, are to a great extent, dependent upon the quantity of motion, which their stems and branches receive from winds; for the effects of motion upon the growth of the root, and of the trunk and branches, which I have described in a former memoir, are perfectly similar.* Whatever part of a root is moved and bent by winds, or other causes, an increased deposition of alburnous matter upon that part soon* Phil. Trans. 18o3, p. 7.MDCCCXIF f SI 8 Mr. KNIGHT on the Causes which influence takes place, and consequently the roots which immediately adjoin the trunk of an insulated tree, in an exposed situation, become strong and rigid; whilst they diminish rapidly in bulk, as they recede from the trunk, and descend into the ground. Bfl this sudden diminution of the bulk of the roots, thre passage of the descending sap, through their bark, is obstructed and it in consequence generates, and passes into rany lateral roots; and these, if the tree be still much agitated by winds, assume a similar form, and consequently divide into many others. A kind of net-work composed of thick and strong roots is thus formed, and the tree is secured from the dangers to which its situation would otherwise expose it. In a sheltered valley, on the contrary, where a tree is surrounded and protected by others, and is rarely agitated by winds, the roots grow long and slender, like the stem and branches, and comparatively much less of the circulating fluid is expended in the deposition of alburnum beneath the ground * and hence it not unfrequently happens, that a tree, in the most sheltered part of a valley, is uprooted; whilst the exposed and insulated tree, upon, the adjoining mnountain, remains uninjured by the fury of the storm. In all the preceding arrangement, the wisdom of nature, and the admirable simplicity of the means it empljloys, are conlspicuously displayed; but I am wholly unable to trace the ex'stence of any thing like sensation or intellect in the plants: and I therefore venture to conclude, tlat their roots are influen ed by the immediate operation and contact of surrounding bodies, and not by any degrees of sensation and passion analogous to those of animal life; and I rejct the latter hypotheis, not only because it is founded upon assumptiors, which cannot be the Direction of the Growth of Roots. 219 granted, but because it is insufficient to explain the preceding phenomena, unless seedling plants be admitted to possess more extensive intellectual powers, than are given to the ofFspring of the most ac te animal. A young wiid -duck or partridge, wvhen it first sees the insect upon shich nature intends it to feed, instinctively pursues and catches it but natLre has given to the young bird an a propriate organization. The plant, on the contrary, if it coul feel an percnivl? t-1 objects of its wants, al d vill the possession of tierm, hls Li to contrive and form the organ by which these are to be1 approached. The writers who have contended for the existence of sensation in plants, appear to have been sensible of the preceding and other obstacles, and have all betrayed the weakness of their hypothesis, in adducing a fe facts onily which are favourable to it, and waving wholly the investigation of all others. In the description of the preceding experiments, I fear that I have been tediously minute ; but as I lhave selected a few facts only from a great number, which I couild have adduced, I was anxious to give as accu1rate and distinct a view of thoseI stated, as possible. I am, dear Sir, with great respect, sincerely yours, THO. AND. KNIGHT. Downton, Jan. x5, I8n. 