(20) An Account of some Books. I. KAAY~IOY ~TOAEMAIOY APMONIK~N BIBAIA ~. CLAUDII PTOLEMAEI Harmonicorum Libri Tres. Ex Codd. Mss. Undecim, nunc primum Graece Editi. Johannes Wallis, ss. Th. D. Geometriae Professor Savilianus Oxoniae, Regiae Societatis Londini Sodalis, Regiaeque Majestati a Sacris; Recensuit, Edidit, Versione & Notis illustravit, & Auctarium adjecit. Oxonii, e Theatro Sheldoniano, A.D. 1682. In Quarto. THis work having been never before Printed in Greek, and but very imperfectly in Latine, by Anton. Gogavinus of Graves,above a 100 Years since,when good skill in theGreek Tongue was more rare: our learned Professor took it for a Task well agreeing with his Province, to give it us in a more perfect Edition. For which purpose, he hath most diligently compared the Manuscript Copies, for restoring and perfecting the Greek Text. And adjoyned a new Latine Translation of the whole: together, with Notes on the Text. Therein rectifying many Mistakes of the Transcriters; especially in the Numbers; which (by Calculation of the whole anew, according to the mind of Ptolemy, declared in the Text) he hath restored to their Integrity. This Work of Ptolemy,gives an Account of the Nature of Sounds in general, but especially of those which are Muscial; as of the several Sorts of Tones, and their Ratio's one to another; with other Particulars. Shewing also,how Harmony may be fitly compared to the Motions of the Humane Soul; and those of Caelestial Bodys. And is the more considerable, as being not only the best of all the Greek Musicians; but as it also gives an Account of the rest; wherein they agreed, or disagreed, one with another; and upon what Principles. There is also added an Appendix, by the Doctor, Containing a brief Account of the Ancient Harmonicks,according to the different Sects of the Authors, compared one with another; and with the Musick of this Age: Shewing how (21) how and wherein the Greek Musick agreed or differ'd from ours; And how the several particulars thereof,are, for the most part, retained inours, but very differently expressed; and what in the one, answers to what in the other. There is herein, a short Collection of all or most of what occurs material, in the several Greek Authors on this Subject; as well those Published by Meibomeus, as others yet remaining amongst us in Manuscript; all Methodically digested, and brought into a Narrow Compass, that the Reader may have at once a view of the Greek and Modern Musick,compared together. A Work which we doubt not, will be very acceptable to those who are willing to look into the Speculative Part of Musick. He hath now also, in the Pressat London, a Treatise of Algebra, Historical and Practical; Shewing its Original and Progress in several Ages, and the several steps whereby it hath advanced to the height at which now it is. Whereof a further Account is intended, when it is Printed. II. Observations upon the DuBLIN-BILLS of Mortality, 1681. And the STATE of that CITY. By the Observator on the LONDON-BILLS of Mortality. London Printed for Mark Pardoe at the Black Raven over against Bedford-House in the Strand, 1683. THis little Book (consisting but of 3 Sheets of Paper) is Magnum in Parvo. Conteining very Considerable Remarques deduced only from 6 London-Bills, 15 Dublin-Bills, and a Note of the Families and Hearths in each Parish of Dublin: all digested into 3 Tables, marked A, B,C, which the excellent Author ingeniously,yet gravely and truly, calls, The A, B, C, of Publique Oeconomy. To which he hath also subjoyned,the Forms for Weekly, Quarterly, and yearly Bills, in 3 Tables; which he conceivs might be made an Excellent Instrument of Government: And to that end proposeth them to the Consideration of Authority. Jo(22) III. JOHANNES GODARTIUS ofINSECTS. Done into English, and Methodized; with the Addition of Notes. By Martin Lister Esq; The Figures Etched upon Copper, by Mr. F. Pl. York, Printed by J.White, for the Publisher, 1682. In Quarto. THe Learned Interpreter doth conjecture, That Godartius had no design of Publishing his Papers of this Subject; but only to gratify his Phancy, and the Excellent Skill he had in Limning. As appears from his almost total neglect of Descriptions, which he had sufficient opportunity to have well performed:Besides the tumultuous Order in which they were first Published, after his Death. So that he seems rather to have diverted himself by conversing with these Animals, (which he did for 40 Years) than to have given himself the trouble of well understanding them. And yet after all this (saith Mr. Lister) we shall find him every where, very just and true in his Observations. That all the Insects he writes of,he most industriously fed, and brought up to their Change, which is more than any Man ever did before him.And though the Historys he hath given, may seem but few, for so long a time; yet in these few, we have something of all the Genus's of Insects that are in Nature. He left his Papers in Dutch; which were several Times put forth in Latine, by divers Interpreters; but those wholy ignorant in Natural History; and their Comments altogether impertinent to the Explication of any one History of Godartius. Which therefore,in this Translation are all omitted; and many Curious and Luciferous Remarques subjoyned to the Authors Text. Which is here also reduced to a Method more agreeable to the several Tribes of Insects. Whereby those, who have leisure, may be put into a ready way of pursuing this Part of Natural History. Mr. (23) Mr. Lister hath also taken great Care, and at his own Charges, to have all the Figures finely Etched upon Copper Plates. The whole Impression, intended for the more curious, consists but of 150 Copies. IV. EPISTOLA INVITATORIA, Ad Observationes Magneticae Variationis, communi Studio junctisque laboribus instituendas. Dat. Altorsi Noricorum Pridie Festi Paschalis, 1682. DR. Sturmius. Mathem. Professor at Altorf, the Author of this Letter, herein first takes notice of the several steps by which the Doctrine of the Magnet, hath been advanced to its present State. That its Power of attracting Iron, hath been taken notice of beyond all History. But that its verticity to the Poles, was first observed about 400 years since by our Countryman Roger Bacon. That it gives the same vertue to Steel, (whence the Invention of the Needle between 300 and 400 years since) by the Italians. The various Delineation of the Needle from the Meridian in various Places,by Sebastianus, Cabottus. The Inclination hereof to the nearer Pole, by our Countryman Robert Norman. And that within these few Years, the Variation of the Declination, and that in one and the same place,hath also been taken notice of by Mr. Hevelius, Auzout, Petit,Volckamer; and others. Upon consideration whereof, and for that it seems by the Observations mentioned, that the said Variation being regularly made, depends not, according to the Conjecture of Des-Cartes,upon the Earth,its being more Irony or Magnetick in some places,than in others; nor upon any otherirregular Cause: he here Incites the Ingenious in all Countrys, to give their joynt assistance, for the bringing this Point to a certainty. From whence we may reasonably expect, amongst other particulars,great Improvements in these two, Navigation and Geography. ~ (24) For this purpose,he wishes, That the Observations may be made every where about the same time, especially, about the Equinoxes and the Summer Solstice. That the Meridian line be taken by Azimouths, as one of the best ways. That every Observation be made at least with two Needles; and that these Needles be neither too little, nor too great; he having frequently experienced the deceitfulness of both extremes. Concluding with a Caution, that the Observations be made upon an exact level. It is intended, that the Transactions for the next Month, shall come forth about the end of the Term. LONDON: Printed for Henry Hunt, Operator to the Royal Society. And Sold by him at the Repository in Gresham College: By J.Rogers at the Bible in Westminster-Hall; and by J. Smith at the Princes-Arms in St. Pauls. ChurchYard. 