IV. The Case of Mr..... Cox, Surgeon at Peterborough, who fell into a Pestilential Fever, upon Tapping a Corpse lately dead of an Hydropsy, drawn up by himself, and read before the Peterborough Society, Sept. 1. 1736. communicated to the ROYAL SOCIETY by the Revd Mr. Tim. Neve, Sec. Soc. Petroburg. A N elderly Gentlewoman, labouring of a Dropsy about 12 Months, underwent the Operation of Tapping four several times, by which 35 Quarts of [169] of Liquor were discharged; and dying at last of the same Distemper, I was desired by her Friends to let out the Water that was then contain'd in the Abdomen, as well to preserve the Corpse the longer from Putrefaction, as to prevent an Annoyance to the Company at the time of her Funeral.-Yet notwithstanding this was done within a few Hours after Death, the included Humours were arriv'd to such a Pitch of Putrefaction, as to discolour the external Parts with a green and livid Hue.-The Liquor itself was green, and somewhat thicker than new Milk, in Smell more fetid and offensive than what I ever met with, and so sharp and acrimonious in its Nature, as deeply to corrode a silver Canula, through which it passed.-And what shew'd it to be highly malignant, may be judged of from the following Circumstances. The Night after the Operation, I was somewhat restless and uneasy, and the next Day afflicted with small Tremors, and an unusual Lassitude; in about three Days after, several angry Pustles arose upon my Hands and Fingers, and I believe on every Place where the least Drop of Water fell; some of which coming to Matter, went off soon; those which did not, continued painful, and remained much longer. The Thumb of my Right Hand, and middle Finger of my other, were affected more severely than any other Part, the Pain more exquisite, the Swelling more hard and large, and of a red dusky Complexion. This was about the 6th Day of my Illness, and altho' the strongest Suppuratives were made use of, yet they fail'd of the desir'd Success, the Pains being continual.-Being persuaded from the great Pulsation Y 2 and [170] and heavy Pains I underwent, that Matter must lodge either under or upon the Periosteum, an Incision was made to the Bone, by which only two or three Drops of Matter were discharged.-'Twas expected this small Discharge might in some measure mitigate my Pain, but it did not; the same Evening, that Pain I at first complain'd of was changed into universal Convulsions, and the Oppression upon my Vitals so great, as to threaten immediate Death. The Intentions of Cure (which were strictly at tended to, by my ingenious Friend Dr. Charles Balguy) were to fortify the Heart with Cordials, to enable it to resist and throw out the Malignity, and to bring the Sores to a plentiful Digestion. The first was treated with the highest Alexipharmacs, the latter, as at first, with strong Suppuratives: This being about the eighth Day of my Illness, and the Convulsions continuing, with an unequal and low Pulse, and as there was little Appearance of Matter, Blisters were plentifully applied, as near to the Parts affected as possible, in order to make a Revulsion from the Heart, and throw off the morbid Matter by the Wounds. In about three Days this Point was gain'd, the Convulsions began to abate, and the Wounds digest; in four more, I found a Cessation of Symptoms, except a Faintness and Lowness of Spirits, which hung upon me for a great while after, which pestilential Fevers (as this was judged one in an high Degree) are known always to leave behind them. I suppose I might receive this Infection as much by Inspiration as Contact; for some of my Assistants, who were in the Room only, and never touched one Drop of the Liquor, found themselves much disorder'd, [171] der'd, and afterwards broke out with red and livid Eruptions; which sufficiently shew'd, that not only the Liquor itself, but the Effluvia too, were in the highest Degree subtle and malignant. V. 