(925) VI. Pharmacologia sen Manuductio ad Materiam Medicam in qua Medicamenta Officinalia Simplicia, hoc est Mineralia, Vegetabilia, Animalia eorumque partes, in Medicina Officinis usitata, in Methodum naturalem digesta succincte & accurate describuntur, cum notis generum Characteristicis, Specierum Synonymis, differentiis & viribus. Opus omnibus Medicis, Philosophis, Pharmacopaeis, Chirurgis, & Pharmacopolis utilissimum. A Samuele Dale. T H E use of the Materia Medica seems to be as old as Mankind, whose Infirmities springing up early, call'd for Remedies, which Instinct or Necessity first dictated, afterwards Observation and Experiment improv'd. The AEgyptians inscrib'd their Medicines on Pillars in the High-ways, and on the Walls of their Temples in great Cities, for the publick Instruction and Preservation of the People. The Greeks taking their Rudiments from them, cultivated the Medicinal Art, which by the peculiar Fertility of their Genius was rais'd to such a Perfection, that succeeding Ages being not able to continue its growth, suffered it to degenerate. The Romans (tho' extreamly civiliz'd) thought it Honour enough to Transcribe, or Epitomize the Greeks; Scribonius Largus, Celsus, and Pliny were only Copists. Hippocrates, Aristotle, Theophrastus, Dioscorides, &c. Originals; which Galen afterwards did indeed refine upon, but the Latines invented little or nothing. The Arabians, tho' very Luxurious in Fancy and Imagination, F f f corrupted (926) corrupted the Greek Purity; so that the Materia Medica lay in great Disorder and Obscurity, till the Navigation to both Indies was detected and opened; then the Spaniards and Portugueses began to describe the Physical Drugs bought up by the Merchants, but their ~~ are very lame and imperfect, and consequently ~, who compos'd out of them: Since his time many Officinals have been fully illustrated in ~, and in Manuscripts, both by the Dutch and English, out of which the Ingenious Author has compil'd the present Work in a most Natural, most Easie, and Perspicuous Method, being assisted by some learned Friends; so that very little (except a few Uses) is taken from Schroder (as will appear by comparing them) the Body and Frame being altogether different, and the Discoveries of a later date; the whole Piece therefore may be justly ~ new, and consequently very Useful, being the Result of many Voyages and Iteneraries to the Remore Parts of the World, and the Effect of many Admirable Observations daily made in the Indian Colonies. The many Impostures and Cheats which the Dealers in Drugs and Physical Herbs do daily commit, gave occasion to our Author of Publishing this small Tract, in which, after having given an Explication of divers of the Terms of Art used among Mineralogists, Botanists, and Zoologists, and a short Description of most of the Utensils of the Apothecary's and Chymist's Shops, he doth premise something in General concerning the Collection, Duration, Time, Manner, and Place of Preserving Simples, together with their Vertues, Uses, and Chymical Analysis, with a short Account of the General Division or Method of the Book. These being premised, our Author proceeds to the Work it self, which he divideth into four Books: The first of which Treats of Minerals, and contains six Sections. The first concerning Waters, which are either Simple (927) Simple or Mineral. Secondly, Earths, and they are of four sorts, Boles, Clays, Marles, and Chalks. The Third Section is of Sulphurs, Arsnicks, and Bitumens. The Fourth treats of Salts, as Sal communis, Sal Gemmae, Nitrum, Alumen, Borax, and Vitriolum. The Fifth contains Metallick Fossils, which are divided either into Oars, as the Cinnabaris, Haematitis, &c. or Bastard Metals, as Antimonium; or Perfect Metals, as Argentum, Plumbum, Cuprum, &c. The Sixth and last Section is of Stones, which are either such as are not Precious, as Lapis Calaminaris, Hybernicus, &c. Or Precious, and they are either Opake or Diaphanous, which are generally called Gems. The Second Book treats of Plants, and is divided into three Classes; the first of which is of such Plants as are of a stony Substance, as Corallium and Corallina. The Second Class is of Herbs, and is divided into 25 Section, in which our Author for the most part following the Method of that most Ingenious Botanist, the Learned and Judicious Mr. John Ray, in his Excellent Historia Plantarum, of which a large Account as to its Divisions, &c. having already been published in these Transactions, No. 186. pag. 283. I shall in this place say no more, but shall refer the Curious thither. The Third and last Class of this Second Book is of Trees and Shrubs, and contains 11 Sections. The first of which is of such Trees as have a single stem without any Branches, and produce but one Bud, as the Palma. Then our Author proceeds to such Trees and Shrubs as are branched, or have Boughs and Twigs; and in the second Section treats of such as have their Fruit disjunct from their Flower, and they are either Nuciferous, as the Juglans, and Corylus: Or Glandiserous, as the Castanea, Quercus, &c. Or Coniserous, as the Abies, Sabina, &c. Or Bacciferous, as the Funiperus. F f f 2 Or (928) Or Lastly, Lanigerous, as the Populus and Salix. After these he comes to treat of such Trees and Shrubs as have their Flower and Fruit contiguous. And in the Third Section, of such Trees and Shrubs whose Flower and Fruit are Aggregate, as the Ficus, Morus, Piper Longum, and Liquid Amber. The Fourth Section contains ~ Trees and Shrubs as have an Umbilicated Fruit: that is, such whose Flower stands upon the top of the Fruit, the Calyx whereof makes a sort of Umbell; and they are either Pomiserous, as the Malus, Pyrus, Granatus, &c. or Bacciferous, as the ibes, Myrtus, Garyophyllus, Cortex Winteranus, &c. He then proceeds to such Trees and Shrubs as have their Flower at the bottom of the Fruit. And in the Fifth Section comprehends such which have the Calyx of their Flower non deciduous, in which the Fruit standeth as in a Cup, and these he calls Calyculated Fruits; as the Sebestena, Agnus Castus, Sassafras, Cinnamomum, Camphora, Styrax, and Canella alba. These being dispatch'd, our Author comes to treat of such Trees and Shrubs which have their Flowers and the Calyx's thereof diciduous together. And in the Sixth Section begins with the Pruniferous, that is, such as have a large Fruit covered with a tender Skin, containing one large stone within a Juicy Pulp, especially when ripe, as the Prunus, Cerasus, &c. The Seventh Section comprehends the Bacciferous Trees and Shrubs, that is, such whose smaller Fruit doth contain in a Pulpy Juice one, two, three, four, or many Seeds: Those with but one Seed or Stone, are the Balsamum, Terebinthus, Cububae, Coculus Judus, &c. Those with two Seeds are Jasminum, Ligustrum, Berberis, &c. With three Seeds the Sambucus. With four, the Vitis, Thea, Agrifolium, &c. Lastly, with many Seeds, the Rubus, &c. The Eighth Section contains the Pomiferous Trees and Shrubs, and these are all Polypyrene, and they are either such as have a fleshy and tender Rind or Peel, as the (929) the Aurantia, Citrus, Cambogium, &c. Or such as have their Pulp contained in a hard shell, as the Nux Vomica and Cacao. The Ninth Section treats of such Trees and Shrubs whose Fruit when ripe is dry, as the Laurus, Coffee, Piper rotundum, Guajacum, Ulmus, Fraxinus, &c. The Tenth Section comprehends the Siliquose Trees and Shrubs, and they are either such as have a Uniform Flower, as Senna, Glans Unguentaria, Cassia Fistula, Tamarindus, &c. or such as have a difform or Papilionaceous Flower, as the Genista, Acacia, Caroba, Brasilia, &c. The Eleventh and last Section of this Book is of some parts of Plants which are of use in the Shops, which because for want of a good Account thereof they could not be reduced to the foregoing Method, are therefore ranged either as Roots, as the Rhodium, or Barks, as the Cortex Thuris; or Woods, as Lignum Aloes, &c. Or, lastly, Gums, as the Olibanum, Bdellium, and Cancamum. The Third Book contains Animals, which by our Author is divided into two Classes, and in the first treats of Exanguious Animals, which are divided into two Sections, in the first of which he comprehends Insects, which are either Apoda, as the Sanguisuga and Lumbrious Terrestris, or Pedata, which are either Non Alata, as the Pediculus, Ricinus, Scorpio, Millepedes, &c. or Alata, and they are eitheir Anelytra, as the Musca, Apes, Formica Cicada, Bombix, &c. or Coleoptera, which are either Scarabaei, as Cantharides, Cochinilia, &c. or the Cicindela; or lastly, the Proscarabaeus. The Second Section contains the greater Exanguious Animals, which are either Mollia, as the Sepia; or Testacea, which are either Univalvia, as the Dentalium and Entalium; or Turbinata, as the Cochlea, Blatta Byzantina, Buccinum, and Purpura: or Bivalvia, as the Ostreum, Mater Perlarum, Unguis Odoratus, &c. Or, lastly, Crustacea, as the Astacus fluviatilis, Cancer Marinus, &c. The (930) The Second Class is of Sanguineous Animals, and is divided into Four Sections; and in the first our Author treats of Fishes, and begins with such as are Auguilliform, or which have slender smooth Bodies without Scales, or at least very small ones, as the Auguilla, Mustela, and Lupus Marinus: He then descends to such as have a more contracted Body, and those are either Marine, having but one Fin on their backs, whose Rays are not Aculeate, as the Harengus, Encrasicholus, Sturio, and Ichthyocolla. Secondly, such as are Fluviatile with but one non aculeate Fin on their backs, having Teeth in their Mouths, as the Lucius. Thirdly, Fluviatile Fishes as aforesaid, but without Teeth, as the Cyprinus, Tinca, and Barbus. Fourthly, Fishes which have two non aculeate Fins on their backs, as the Thymallus and Trutta. Fifthly, such as have two Fins on their backs aculeate, as the Perca and Mugil. Sixthly, Cartilagineous Fishes, as the Galeus acanthias. Sevently, and lastly, Cetaceous Fishes, as the Monoceros, Orca, and Balaena. The Second Section contains Birds, and they are either Aquatick or Terrestrial; the Aquatick are of two sorts, First, Fissipedes, as the Grus, Ardea, and Ciconia. Secondly, Palmides, as the Cygnus, Anser, and Anas. The Terrestrial are either Majores or Minores. The Minores are again divided according to their Bills, into, First, such as have Long.Bills, as the Ispida. Secondly, such as have slender or soft Beaks or Bills, as the Alauda, Hirundo, Passer troglodytes, &c. Thirdly, such as have hard Beaks or Bills, as the Passer vulgaris. The Majores are likewise divided into three sorts: As First, such as have thick, strong, and longish Bills, as the Corvus, Pica, &c. Secondly, such as have shorter and lesser Bills, as the Gallinaceous and Columbaceous kinds. And lastly, into those which have crooked Beaks or Bills, as the Aquila, Vultur, &c. In (931) In the Third Section is comprehended the Serpentine kind, and they are either Apoda, as the Serpens and Vipera; or Pedata, which are either Caudata, as the Lacertus, Scincus, &c. or non caudata, as the Rana and Bufo. The Fourth and Last Section is of Quadrupedes, which are divided into Ungulata and Unguiculata. The Ungulata are of three sorts (viz.) First, Solidungula, as the Equus, Asinus, &c. Secondly, Bisulca, which are either Ruminantia, as the Bovinum genus, Ovis, and the Caprinum and Cervinum genera: Or Non Ruminantia, as the Porcus and Aper. Or Lastly, Quadrisulca, as the Rhinoceros and Animal Moschiferum. The Unguiculate are the Elephas, Equus Marinus, Lepus, Castor, Ursus, Animal Zibethicum, &c. The Fourth and last Book is the Anthropologia, in which the Parts of a Humane Body which are of use in the Shops are enumerated; and these are divided into two Sections, and in the first are contained those which are taken from a Living Body. And Secondly, such as are taken from a Dead Body. And Lastly, is added a small Appendix of some very few things omitted in the Work. Having run over the General Method and Division of the Work, I shall descend to the particular Method thereof, which is this: At the beginning of each Book you have a General Scheme, or Philosophick Table of all the Heads or Sections in that Book: Likewise at the beginning of each subsequent Section you have a particular Scheme of all the Heads in that Section. Each Section doth likewise contain so many Chapters as there are distinct Heads: In each of which Chapters you have, (932) have, first, the Characteristick Note, whereby it may be distinguished from others, which are chiefly taken from the Extant Works of that great and learned Enquirer into Nature, Mr. John Ray. Secondly, you have the Names of each thing in Latine and English, not only how it's called in the Shops, but by the latest and most Classick Authors. Thirdly, you have the Place where each thing is Naturally to be found, and in the Herbs the time of flourishing. Fourthly, you have an Account of what parts of each are used in the Shops, with short, but pertinent Descriptions thereof. And Fifthly, you have a Compendious Account of their Vertues and Physical Uses, which are chiefly excerpted from the learned Schroder. After which you have frequently many Useful and Curious Observations, some few of which I shall briefly present you with according to the Order of the Books, and for the rest refer you to the Work it self. In the First Book, treating of Earths, our Author takes notice of Nine sorts of sealed Earths, which he hath observed to be sold by the Drugists of London, under the Title of Terra Sigillata, and doth not doubt but many more may be found among found. Among Sulphurs he observes, that if Orpiment be the Natural Oar of Gold, as some affirm, then that Metal cannot have those Alexipharmick and Cardial Vertues that are ascribed to it by Authors. Amber and Amber-grise he takes to be Mineral Juices, and therefore rangeth them among Bitumens. Among the Salts, he observes that our Modern Nitre is a Fossil Salt, differing from the Nitre of the Ancients; and that Vitriol is not properly a Salt, but a Crystallized Metal. And concerning Stones, especially Gems, he doth believe that there are many things affirmed concerning them by Authors, which (933) which are either Fabulous, Doubtful, or at least Superstitious. In the Second Book he takes notice that the true Rubarb is not a Dock, but the Root of a Plant with a Pentapetalous Flower; and that the Rhabarbarum of Alpinus, which in our Gardens is called Rubarb, is the true Rupontick, which ought to be used in the Shops instead of the Root of a Centaurium Majus, which is frequently sold for it. Concerning the Been album & rubrum, he enumerates the many Controversies among Authors. both Ancient and Modern, and the Root of what Plant each would have it to be; and concludes, that if the Papaver Spumeum is not the Been album, and the Limonium the Been rubrum, which by reason of the imperfect Descriptions of the Arabians, he dares not aver, vet may they not improperly be used as their Succedaneums. Contra-yerva is the Root of a Pomiserous Herb; as are China and Sarsaparilla of Bacciferous: Jalapium, ~ and Turpethum are the Roots of divers Species of Convolvuli: Opium he proves to be the Concret Spontaneous Juice of a Poppy. He excellently proves the Amomum verum to be a sort of Cardamomum, as is also the Malegneta, or Grana Paradisi: Unto which Tribe also belongs the Curcuma, Costus, Galanga, Zedoaria, Zerumbeth, and Zinziber. Nardus Indica he makes the Root of a Cyperus. Among Trees and Shrubs he demonstrates Terra Japonica not to be an Earth, but the condensed Juice of the Fruit of the Faufel; Balsamum e Toly the Resine of an American Pine. Cocculus Indus, and Nux Vomica, are, the one of a ~, and the other of a Pomiferous Asafaetida: Bekzoin, Cambogium, Caranna, and Tacamahaca, &c. by what Trees they are produced. The Cortex Winteranus he proves not to be the Canella Alba which is sold for it in the Shops, but the Bark of another Tree with an Umbilicated Fruit growing in Magellan. Manna G g g and (934) and Gum Lacca he clearly shews to be Spontaneous Exudations; the first of the Fraxinus, and the other of the Jujuba Indica, and that by many undeniable Arguments. In the Third Book he shews you what the Cochinella is, with many excellent Observations thereon. The Blatta Byzantina he proves to be an Operculum of a Turbinated Shell-fish, different from the Unguis Odoratus of Dioscorides, which he takes to be a sort of ~chylium or Bivalve. Pearls he asfirms to be only the Diseases of Bivalve Shell-fish, and therefore doth not think them endued with those excellent Vertues ~bed to them by most Authors. He clears up what the Dentalium, Entalium, Purpura, &c. are. Among Fishes, he Observes that the Lapides Bufonites are the Teeth of the Lupus Marinus; and that the Unicorn's Horn of the Shops is not the Horn of a Quadrupede like a Horse, as some feign, but the Tooth of a Fish of the Cetaceous kind; he reckons up the many Opinions about Sperma Ceti,and affirms it to be an Unctuous Matter to be found in the Brain of a sort of Whale, and solves the Reason of its being found floating upon the Sea, as well as in its Natural place. In the Section of Quadrupedes our Author well observes the Bezoar to be a Stone, generated, or rather encrusted about divers things in the Ventricles or Stomacks of Animals, and is of divers sorts; as Oriental, found in a sort of Goat, the Occidental in an American Deer, and the German in a sort of Goat. Concerning the Rhinoceros, he is of Opinion, that he is the only Unicorn to be found among Quadrupedes, and perhaps may be the true Unicorn of the Ancients, whose Horn AElianus affirms to be black, which Conjecture Andreas Baccius doth confirm. Musk he takes to be an Excrementitious Blood, secreted in its proper Cystis near the Navil of a Quadrisulc Animal like a Deer. Civet he (935) he affirms to be an Excrementitious Succus, by Nature secreted in its proper Follicule near the Anus of an Animal of the Dog-kind, and not the Sperm, as some have asserted. Castor he proves to be the Scent.bags adjoyning to the Intestinum Rectum, and not the Testicles of the Beaver, as some assert. In the Fourth and last Book our Author takes notice, that the Sal Armoniac of the Shops is a factious Salt made of Human Urine, Soot, and common Salt, and is not that of the Ancients, which Pliny and others affirm to be found among the Sands of Lybia. And lastly, Observes that Mumia is of four sorts; all which he doth demonstrate. And here I shall finish my Account, recommending to those which desire further Satisfaction in the Materia Medica the Book it self, which is of excellent Use to all Physicians, Philosophers, Apothecaries, Chirurgions, and Drugsters. 