(657) I. A Letter from Mr Christopher Hunter, to Dr Martin Lister, Fellow of the Coll. of Phys. and R. S. concerning some Roman Inscriptions found near Durham. S I R, THe kind acceptance, Matters relating to our Nation's Antiquity, meet with among the Members of your Learned Society, encourages me to present these following Inscriptions, which I copy'd from theStones, without any manner of addition; and I am the more willing to present them to you, who have been a particular Ornament to that College I was lately a Student in, I mean St Johns, and are still, the greatest to our Profession. These Inscriptions were found near a Village called Lancaster, about 5 miles North West from Durham, which I am fully perswaded has been the Longovicum of the Romans. It has been a very considerable Place in these parts, and their watling Street lies through it. 'Tis on the top of a Hill, which has a descent on three sides; towards the West its overlookt by a high Hill, and almost Eastward from it about a quarter of a mile, stands the present Lanchester, a tolerable Country Village, with a pretty Church, which before the Reformation was endowed with a Deanery and six Prebends. The form of this place has been square, and fortify'd with a thick, strong Stone Wall faced with hewn Stone. Within the Wall are (and have been formerly) nothing but ruinous heaps of Stones; as also without the Wall too, especialy towards the East. 'Tis probable the Building within the Wall (668) Wall have been all publick, such as the Station for the Soldiers, Temples, Palaces, &c. or (which I am more inclin'd to think) there has been nothing but the Lodging of the Garrison within the Wall. This I rather suppose, because the Inscription of Gordianus was snot found here, but about a hundred yards from the Wall towards the East, near which place the largest Stones are found: and I my self above a year ago found part of a large Earthen Urn, near this place, within which I suppose there has been a lesser, such I remember was found at another Village not far from this, which I'm perswaded has been another Colony. An account whereof I intend to present you in a small time, if this find acceptance. There is no doubt but this Colony has been adorn'd with many beautiful Palaces, and other sumptuous Buildings; I desire to know your Opinion if the Balneum cum Basilica, mention'd in one of these Inscriptions, have not been that so long in vain sought for at Rome. This, Sir, is all I can meet with concerning this place at present, but if I meet with any thing more worth the knowing, I shall take care to send it you. I am, S I R, Newcastle sup. Tine, Your most humble Servant, Nov. 6. 1700 Christ. Hunter. II. A 