E 599 1 XXVII. On the Long Spectrum of Electric Light. By G. G. STORES, M.A., J C.L., Sec. R.S., Lucasian Professor of ]lMathematics in the University of Cambridge. Received June 19,-Read June 19,1862. Introduction. THE experimental researches described in a former paper * led me indirectly to the conclusion that the electric spark, whether obtained directly from the prime conductor of an ordinary electrifying machine, or from the discharge of a Leyden jar, emits rays of very high refrangibility, surpassing in this respect any that reach us from the sun-and that these rays pass freely through quartz, while glass absorbs them, as it does also the most refrangible of the solar rays. I was induced in consequence to procure prisms and a lens of quartz, which were applied in the first instance to the examination of the solar spectrum, and which immediately revealed the existence of an invisible region extending as far beyond that previously known as the latter extends beyond the visible spectrum, and exhibiting a continuation of FRAUNIHOFER's lines j. A map of the new lines was exhibited at an evening lecture delivered before the British Association at their Meeting in Belfast in the autumn of the same year; and I then stated that I conceived we had obtained evidence that the limit of the solar spectrum in the more refrangible direction had been reached. In fact, the very same arrangement which revealed, by means of fluorescence, the existence of what were evidently rays of higher refrangibility coming from the electric spark failed to show anything of the kind when applied to the solar spectrum. At least, the only link in the chain of evidence which remained to be supplied by direct experiment related to the reflecting power -for rays of high refrangibility, of the metallic speculum of the heliostat which was employed to reflect the sun's rays into a convenient direction; and this was shortly afterwards tested by direct experiment, on rays from an electric discharge separated by prismatic refraction. In making preparations for a lecture on the subject delivered at the Royal Institution in February 1853, in which I had the benefit of the kind assistance of Mr. FARADAY, recourse was naturally had to electric light, on account of the extraordinary richness which it had been found to possess in rays of high refrangibility. Although fully prepared to expect rays of much higher refrangibility than were found in the solar spectrum, I was perfectly astonished, on subjecting a powerful discharge from a Leyden jar to prismatic analysis with quartz apparatus, to find a spectrum extending no less than six or eight times the length of the visible spectrum, and could not help at first suspecting that it was a mistake arising from the reflexion of stray light. A similarly extensive * "On the ChaVnge of Refrangibility of Light," Phil. Trans. for 1852, p. 463. t Ibid. p. 559. MII:cccLxII 4 600 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. spectrum was obtained from the voltaic arc, and this was sufficiently bright to be exhibited to the audience, the arc passing between copper electrodes, and the pure spectrum formed by quartz apparatus being received on a piece of uranium glass cut for the purpose. The spectrum thus formed was found to consist entirely of bright lines I, whereas the spectrum of the discharge of a Leyden jar had appeared (perhaps from not having been truly in focus) to be continuous, or at least not wholly discontinuous. The mode of absorption of light by coloured -solutions, as observed by the prism, affords in many cases most valuable characters of particular substances, which, strange to say, though so easily observed, have till very lately been almost wholly neglected by chemists. Having obtained the long spectrum above mentioned, I could not fail to be interested with the manner in which substances, especially pure but otherwise imperfectly known organic substances, might behave as to their absorption of the rays of high refrangibility, But the difficulties attending the habitual use of a nitric-acid battery of 30 or 40 cells deterred me from entering on this investigation, and I determined to confine myself to the solar spectrum. On account of some inconvenience attending the tarnishing of the speculum of my heliostat, I was induced to order a quartz plate, intended to be either silvered or coated with the usual amalgam of tin. On trying on a small scale the reflecting power of such plates with respect to the invisible rays, which may be done by means of fluorescence almost as easily as if those rays were visible j, I noticed a remarkable falling off in the reflecting power of the silvered plate for the most refrangible of the solar rays, which I readily found was due to a peculiarity of the metal silver. This metal is highly reflective for the invisible as it is for the visible rays up to about the fixed line S 4, when its reflecting power falls off, with remarkable rapidity, and for the more refrangible rays of the solar spectrum is comparable with that of a vitreous substance rather than with that of a metal. Steel, gold, tin, &c. showed nothing of the kind, but copiously reflected the invisible rays. A few years ago, as Dr. ROBINSON was showing me some experiments with the induction coil, it seemed worth while to try whether the spark obtained when a Leyden jar has its coatings connected with the secondary terminals might not be sufficiently strong to exhibit by projection the long spectrum shown by electric light. On projecting a spectrum formed by a prism and lens of quartz on a piece of uranium glass, the long spectrum was in fact exhibited. It was not, indeed, so bright as when formed by means of a powerful voltaic battery, but nevertheless was quite bright enough to work by. It was discontinuous, consisting of bright lines. On changing the metals between which the spark passed, we found that the lines were changed, which showed clearly that they were due to the particular metals.* Proceedings of the Royal Institution, vol. i. p. 264. t Philosophical Transactions for 1852, p. 537. + According to the notation employed in the Map published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1859, Plate XLVII. In this Plate the group S should have been represented as three lines, of which the middle (specially named S) divides the interval between the 1st and 3rd in the proportion of 3 to 2 nearly, the spaces between the lines being a little darkened by shading. PROFESSOR STOKES: ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 601 A wide field of research was thus thrown open to any one taking the very moderate trouble attending the use of an induction coil. It remained to study the lines given by different metals and gases, and the absorbing action of various substances with respect to the invisible rays of different refrangibilities. Various observations were made from time to time in this subject. As regards the metallic lines, it is perfectly easy to view them at pleasure; but to obtain faithful delineationsof them is another matter. Even an accomplished artist would find difficulty in obtaining by mere eye-sketching a faithful representation of an object which requires to be seen in the dark. I tried different methods without being able to satisfy myself as to the accuracy of the drawings which could be thus obtained, and frequently thought of resorting to photography. Meanwhile the mode of absorption of the rays of high refrangibility by a good number of substances was observed. Nothing is easier, to a person provided with a cell with parallel faces of quartz, than to observe by means of fluorescence the mode of absorption of these rays by a given solution; but to draw safe conclusions as to the optical character in this respect of the substance deemed to be in solution is not so easy as it might appear; for the rays of high refrangibility are liable to be absorbed by an exceedingly small amount of an impurity which may chance to be present without the observer's knowledge. Thus I found that about a quarter of a squareinch of clean filtering paper sufficiently contaminated the water contained in a small cell to interfere sensibly with its transparency. Should the solution be transparent there would be no difficulty, for the effect of an impurity would not be to render transparent a solution which otherwise would be opaque. Should it, on the other hand, absorb the invisible rays, or some of them, with great energy, or in a peculiar manner, we might again conclude that we had obtained the true character of the substance deemed to be observed. The most remarkable example of this kind which I met with among inorganic colourless solutions was in the case of nitric acid and its salts, such as nitrate of potash, soda, ammonia, baryta, which absorb the rays of high refrangibility with great energy and in a peculiar manner, exhibiting a maximum of opacity followed by a maximum of transparency, beyond which the absorption becomes still more energetic than before. But if the solution should be found to absorb the rays of high refrangibility with only moderate energy, it would be left doubtful whether the observed absorption might not be due to some impurity; and I did not see how this doubt could be solved otherwise than by a laborious system of recrystallizations. After having obtained these results, I found by conversation with my friend Dr. MILLER that he also had been engaged at the same subject, working by photography, and had prepared a number of photographs of metallic spectra, and studied by the same means the absorption of the rays of high refrangibility by a great variety of substances, chiefly inorganic acids, bases, and salts, and the commoner organic bodies. Although a large part of the task which I had proposed to myself has thus been accomplished --in another way,there are many results which I have met with which are not 4KN2 602 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. likely to have been obtained by one working by photography, and I have therefore thought it well to draw up a paper embodying these results, and thus forming, as it were, a supplement to the paper by Dr. MILLER. Preparation of a Screen by means of a Salt of Uranium Few substances are more powerfully fluorescent than several of the salts of sesquioxide of uranium; and a piece of glass coloured by uranium and polished along at least two planes at right angles to each other is exceedingly convenient, from its powerful fluorescence and its permanence, for a screen on which to receive a spectrum. Nevertheless such a screen, which must be viewed in particular directions in order to get the strongest effect, is in many cases less convenient than a screen would be which was prepared by means of a highly fluorescent powder treated like a water colour, which could be viewed in all directions indifferently. This is especially the case in taking measures by a method which will be mentioned presently. Besides, I find an excellent piece of such glass defective in fluorescent power as regards the extreme lines shown by aluminium. and some specimens are defective to a much greater extent, which is doubtless due to impurities. Accordingly I have long regarded it as a desideratum to obtain by precipitation an insoluble or very sparingly soluble salt of sesquioxide of uranium which should be as fluorescent as the best salts of that base, and which might be treated like a water colour. I have now succeeded in preparing such a salt, though not by direct precipitation. The ordinary phosphate obtained by precipitation, the composition of which, independently of water of hydration, is PO, (U2 03)21HO, is only slightly fluorescent. If, however, this salt, with as much water as remains when it is washed by decantation, be put into a saucer, a little free phosphoric or sulphuric acid added, and then crystals of phosphate of soda, phosphate of ammonia, microcosmic salt, or borax be added in excess, the original salt is gradually changed into one which is powerfully fluorescent. The change seems to take place most rapidly with borax; but as an excess of this salt is liable slowly to decompose the fluorescent salt first formed, it is better to employ a phosphate. The quantity of acid should be sufficient to leave a decided acid reaction when the liquid is fully saturated by the alkaline phosphate employed. The change may be watched by observing from time to time the fluorescence of the salt by daylight. with the aid of absorbing media. It is complete in a few days at furthest, when the salt is ready to be collected. This requires precaution, as the salt is quickly decomposed by dilute acids (and accordingly by its own mother-liquor if diluted), and even,' though more slowly, by pure water, with the formation apparently of the original phosphate. It is also decomposed, at least in time, by alkaline carbonates, with the formation of a beautiful yellow nonfluorescent salt resembling the precipitate given by alkaline carbonates in salts of sesquioxide of uranium. The salt may be collected by adding at once, instead of water, a saturated solution of borax, in quantity at least sufficient to destroy the acid reaction. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 603 The salt is then poured off in suspension from any undissolved crystals of the alkaline phosphate employed, and collected on a filter. A pressed cake of this salt, or a porous tile on which the salt is spread, having been moistened with a solution of borax, forms an admirable screen, and is what I have chiefly employed of late. It shows, of course, the visible as well as the invisible rays-the former by ordinary scattering, the latter by fluorescence. From the circumstances of its formation, the salt is probably (abstraction being made of the water of hydration) the original phosphate with the equivalent of constitutional water replaced by an equivalent of an alkali, which would make it analogous to the highly fluorescent natural yellow uranite. At any rate this hypothesis guides us to its successful preparation, the conditions of which it would not have been easy to make out by observation alone. Without the use of free acid the fluorescence is not fully developed, which is accounted for by the insolubility of the original phosphate and the fluorescent salt, which presents an obstacle to the complete conversion of the one into the other. ]ietallic Lines. These may be viewed, as already mentioned, by passing the spark of an induction coil between two electrodes formed of the metal to be examined (the secondary terminals being respectively in connexion with the coatings of a jar of suitable size), forming a pure spectrum by a prism and lens of quartz, the faces of the prism being equally inclined to the axis of the crystal, and the lens being cut perpendicular to the axis, and receiving the spectrum on a suitable screen, for which, if a fluorescent liquid be employed, it is to be placed in a quartz-faced vessel, in default of which a piece of filtering paper may be saturated with the liquid. If the visible spectrum and the very beginning of the invisible be excepted, the lines thus seen vary from metal to metal, and therefore are to be referred to the metal and not to the air. They are further distinguished from air lines by being formed only at an almost insensible distance from the tips of the electrodes, whereas air lines would extend right across. The spectrum is far too extended to allow us to regard the whole at once as in the position of minimum deviation; and if the prism be placed at all near the electrodes, without which we should have comparatively little light to work with, the effect of the different divergency, converted by the lens into convergency, of the rays in the primary and secondary planes is very great. In order to obtain a pure spectrum, the screen must be in focus as regards the primary plane; and if a particular point P of the spectrum be at a minimum deviation, the lines immediately about P are reduced almost to points, which are the images, for light of that refrangibility of the tips of the electrodes, or, to speak more exactly, of the part of the spark just outside the tips. But in the secondary plane the rays on one side of P have not yet reached their focus, and on the other side have passed it; so that the image of a point is a line, the primary focal line, of a length increasing on receding from P in either direction, and accordingly the spectral image of either tip, assumed to be a mere point, would be a pair of slender 604 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONGG SPECTRUMOF ELECTRIC LIGHT. triangles vertically opposite, and having their common vertex at P, their lengths lying in the plane of refraction. The invisible spectrum is in fact made up of two such pairs of triangles corresponding to the two tips respectively, as may be readily seen when the electrodes are not too close. At a distance from P at which the length of the primary focal line becomes equal to that of the image of the spark, the two lines which are the images, for rays of the refrangibility answering to that distance, of the tips of the electrodes meet in the middle of the spectrum, and beyond that distance they overlap, so that a line appears to run across the spectrum, though it relates to rays which emanated only from the immediate neighbourhood of the tips of the electrodes, as may be seen by turning the prism till that part of the spectrum is at a minimum deviation, and focusing afresh. Besides the bright lines, evidently due to metals, which have been mentioned, other weaker light is perceptible, too faint for precise observation. A portion of this is probably due to the air. The chief part of the visible spectrum as seen by projection appears plainly to -belong to the air; for the lines stretch across the interval separating the electrodes, while the lines belonging to the metals extend but a little way, even in the visible spectrum, and the former reappear when the electrodes are changed. With some metals, however, lines belonging to the metal appear in the visible spectrum which are comparable in strength with the invisible lines of high refrangibility; but in general it is rather remarkable how poor is the visible spectrum, and even the invisible region for a good distance beyond, compared with the part of the spectrum of still higher refrangibility; with respect to strong lines characteristic of the metal. I have lately adopted a mode of laying down positions in the invisible spectrum which is extremely simple and convenient, and yields results agreeing well with one another. It might be applied to the formation of maps of the metallic lines; but this is unnecessary, as the subject has been worked out by Dr. MILLER. It is still useful, however, for laying down the positions of bands of absorption, being more convenient and exact than estimating their place with reference to the known metallic lines. The method is as follows. The quartz prism is placed on a block, raising it to a convenient height above a long drawing-board, to which the block is screwed, and is fixed at pleasure by a screw pressing upon it from above. The lens is fixed in a blackened board screwed edgeways to the drawing-board near the prism, so as to be ready to receive the rays of all refrangibilities after refraction through the prism. The focal length of the lens actually used was about 12 inches, and its diameter 14inch. A convenient distance of the spark from the prism having been selected (I chose 30 inches), the drawing-board was turned round till it attained such a position that, on placing the prism in the position of minimum deviation for the middle of the long spectrum, the rays belonging to that part fell perpendicularly, or nearly so, on the lens, which had previously been placed so that this should be a convenient position relatively to the drawing-board. The prism was then fixed by its screw, and to mark the angle of incidence a pin was placed at the edge of the shadow of one of the -blocks. On account of PROFESSOR STOKESON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 605 the increasing refraction by the lens of rays of increasing refrangibility, the locus of the foci of the different rays formed an arc of a curve, or nearly a straight line, lying very obliquely to the axes of the pencils coming through the lens. The projection of this line on the board having been marked, a line was drawn bisecting this at right angles, and at a point in the latter line situated lIII inches from the former*, the board was pierced for the insertion of a pivot, which carried two wooden rulers, which could be clamped together at any convenient angle. The shorter of these carrieda vertical needle, which as the ruler was turned moved in front of the focus of the different rays at the distance of about a quarter of an inch. The longer ruler carried a pricker, destined to mark on a sheet of paper, temporarily fastened to the drawing-board, the position of any object observed. Thus the prism, the lens, the axis of motion of the needle and pricker, and the pin for fixing the angle of incidence retained an invariable relative position when the drawing-board was moved. In observing, the electrodes were placed at the proper distance, and the board turned till the edge of the shadow fell on the pin. The rulers were then turned together till any bright line or other object was eclipsed by the needle, and its place was then pricked down. To obtain a fixed point of reference, I generally pricked down the position of the extreme red visible on a screen, such as a piece of paper; but if great accuracy were required, it might be better to employ a well-marked green air line. The metals the spectra of which I have observed are Platinum, Palladium, Gold, Silver, Mercury, Antimony, Bismuth, Copper, Lead, Tin, Nickel, Cobalt, Iron, Cadmium, Zinc, Aluminium, Magnesium. Several of these show invisible lines of extraordinary strength, which is especially the case with zinc, cadmium, magnesium, aluminium, and lead, which last, in a spectrum not generally remarkable, contains one line surpassing perhaps all the other metals. Other metals exhibit lines which in certain parts of the spectrum are both bright and numerous; so that, in taking a rough view of the whole, certain parts of the spectrum are bright and tolerably continuous, while other parts are comparatively weak. This grouping of the lines is especially remarkable in copper, nickel, cobalt, iron, and tin. Of the metals mentioned, magnesium gives by far the shortest spectrum, ending in a very bright line, beyond which, however, excessively faint light may be perceived to a distance about as great as the extent of the longer spectra. Aluminium, on the other hand, stands at the head of the above metals for richness in rays of the very highest refrangibility; and it is to this part of the spectrum that the strong lines above mentioned belong. In calling these lines strong, it must be understood that some allowance is made for their very high refrangibility; for when observed as above described they do not appear absolutely quite so strong as the bold lines of zinc or cadmium. This is partly due to the defective transparency of quartz, which for this part of the spectrum shows itself by no means perfect; and indeed the highest aluminium line, which is a double line, can only be seen by rays which pass through the prism near its edge. * A longer distance would have been better. 606 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. The following figure exhibits the principal lines of aluminium, with zinc and cadmium for comparison. In the first of the aluminium lines represented, I could not make out the division into two parts corresponding to the tips of the electrodes. R denotes the extreme red visible on a screen; the lines in the visible spectrum are omitted, as this Fig. 1. Aluminium . Zinc....... Cadmium ...... Air ......... iVn' 7$i 7? 2LX2 34v. . has been made the subject of elaborate researches by others. The horizontal distances are proportional to the distances of the several pricks from that belonging to the extreme red, and therefore vary as the chords of the arcs described by the pricker. This tends to correct to a certain extent the exaggeration of the more refrangible end of the spectrum arising from the mode adopted of laying down the positions of the lines. The lowest row of lines in the figure, which is placedhere for the sake of comparison, will be referred to further on. Besides the lens above mentioned, I sometimes employ in a different manner another of 1 inch diameter and 2inches focal length, and accordingly large for its focal length. This is used for forming an image of the spark, which is received on the substance that is to be examined, or that is used for examining the spark. The difference of focal length for the different rays is so enormous that, while one part of the spectrum is in focus, other parts are utterly out of focus, and thus we may judge in a general way of the-refrangibility of the rays by which any particular effect is produced. In this way such concentration of the rays is obtained, that effects may be studied which would not bear examination by prismatic analysis. In speaking of this lens I shall call it the 2-5-inch lens, from its focal length. Absorption of the invisible rays by Alkaloids, Glucosides, &ce Before examining these substances it is requisite to dissolve them, and we must first inquire into the transparency of the solvent. Fortunately the most useful of all solvents, water, is transparent when pure; and as to reagents, we may employ sulphuric or hydrochloric acid for an acid, these acids being transparent, and ammonia, suppose, for an alkali. In speaking of a substance as transparent, I wish it only to be understood that it is of a transparency comparable with quartz. As to ammonia, although it absorbs the more refrangible rays when in quantity (unless the observed absorption were due to some impurity), it may be deemed transparent in -the small quantity which alone it is PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 607 requisite to employ. Even alcohol, which in the state in which it is to be had is defective in transparency, is sufficiently transparent to be employed as a solvent for such substances as those under consideration, provided it be used in small thickness only. The alkaloids and glucosides which I have examined are almost without exception intensely opaque for a portion at least of the invisible rays, absorbing them with an energy comparable for the most part to that with which colouring matters (such as alizarine, &c.) absorb the visible rays. The mode of absorption also is frequently, I might almost say generally, highly characteristic; so that by this single property they might be distinguished one from another. It frequently happens too that the mode of absorption decidedly changes according as the solution is acid or alkaline, which assists still further in the discrimination. In the examination I sometimes employ a small cell with parallel faces of quartz, sometimes a wedge-shaped vessel, having its inclined faces also of quartz, but more commonly the former. The cell being filled with the solvent, a minute quantity of the substance is introduced, and the progress of the absorption is watched as the substance gradually dissolves, the fluid meantime being of course stirred up. In this way it is easy to seize the most characteristic phase of the absorption, which may be then registered by the pricking instrument. When minima of opacity occur, it is best to seize that stage of the absorption at which they are well developed. When no minima occur, a greater or less part of the more refrangible region is quickly absorbed, after which the absorption creeps on towards the less refrangible side. When once it has become tolerably stationary, the limit of the rays transmitted may be marked. It seems desirable not to go beyond this point in the absorption, lest some possible impurity in the substance examined, which if it had formed the whole of the specimen would have absorbed rays of lower refrangibility, should begin to make itself perceived, and its mode of absorption should be mistaken for that of the substance professed to be examined. All the metallic spectra are discontinuous, which prevents the mode of absorption of even a solid or liquid from being observed quite so well as in the solar spectrum, even independently of the greater intensity of the latter, and would greatly interfere with the observation of narrow bands like those shown by the absorption of certain gases in the visible spectrum, and of which chlorous acid gas (Cl 04) shows a splendid system in the invisible part of the solar spectrum. Should a general absorption take place in a part of the spectrum where previously a bright group of lines was seen, with weaker light for some distance on both sides, it is evident that at a certain stage of the absorption the bright group would be left isolated, and the effect might be mistaken for a maximum of transparency. In doubtful cases of this kind it is requisite to change the electrodes, so as to use the spectrum of some other metal; but practically the difficulty is not so great as might be supposed. It is desirable to choose a metal which gives a spectrum that is bright and tolerably continuous in the region in which the distinctive features of the absorption are most likely to occur. For general use in the examination of substances such as here consiM?DOCCLxJJ. 40o 608 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. dered, I prefer tin-the electrodes (or one of them at least) being broad, for a reason which will be mentioned presently. Tin, indeed, is weak in the most refrangible region, though after a long interval of weakness it shows one pretty strong line between the 2nd and 3rd of the strong aluminium lines; but with these substances the distinctive features of the absorption hardly ever occur so late. For combined strength and continuity, copper answers well for the highly refrangible region in which tin is weak; while mercury, which may be employed in the form of amalgamated zinc, is the richest metal for the invisible region just beyond the visible spectrum; but I have employed tin almost exclusively. The following figure gives the bands of absorption observed in solutions of several Fig. 2. Principal lines of zinc ........................... Strychnine, in dilute sulphuric acid ......... Brucine, in dilute sulphuric acid ............ Morphine, in dilute sulphuric acid ......... Codeine, in dilute sulphuric acid ............ Narcotine, in dilute sulphuric acid ......... Narceine, in dilute sulphuric acid ............ Papaverine, in dilute sulphuric acid .........I Caffeine, in dilute sulphuric acid . Corydaline, in dilute sulphuric acid ......... Piperine, in alcohol .............................. AEsculine, in dilute ammonia .................. Phlorizine, in dilute ammonia ............... Phlorizine, in dilute sulphuric acid ........ Salicine, in water ................-........_ Arbutine, in water ............ . .._ alkaloids and glucosides. The bold lines of zinc are given as points of reference; but the observations were made with electrodes of tin. The border on the left is the limit of the red light visible on a screen. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 609 Although the central part of the maxima of transparency in this figure is generally left white to save trouble, the reader must not suppose that that part of the spectrum suffers no absorption. On the contrary, it is more or less weakened when the solution has the strength to which the figure corresponds, and disappears altogether when the quantity of substance in solution is increased, while at the same time the edge of the first band of absorption creeps on a little towards the red, the absorption being usually pretty definite at this edge. The measurements were taken from the points where the light ceased to be sensible, which are represented in the figure by the junction of plain black and shaded white. The shading merely represents the general effect, the gradation of illumination not having been registered. It extends in the figure, as a general rule, too far to the left of the edge of the first black band, and accordingly does not represent the absorption at that limit as sufficiently definite. A glance at the figure will show how distinctive is the mode of absorption of the rays of high refrangibility by these different substances. Indeed this one character would serve to distinguish all these substances one from another, unless it be morphine from codeine, and caffeine from salicine. The dotted line in the figure for Masculine denotes the commencement of the fluorescence, which is situated near the line G of the solar spectrum. A solution of brucine cuts off the invisible end of the solar spectrum about midway between the lines S and T, and accordingly not far from the end of the region which it requires a quartz prism and lens to see. Accordingly, when these substances are examined by solar light their distinctive characters are almost wholly unperceived, the solutions of some appearing quite transparent, and those of others merely cutting off the extreme rays to a greater or less distance. With Masculine alone the maximum of opacity lies within the solar spectrum; but even in this case we should have little idea of the great increase of transparency about to take place. The effect of acids and alkalies on all the glucosides referred to in the figure presents one uniform feature. When a previously neutral solution is rendered alkaline, the absorption begins somewhat earlier, when rendered acid somewhat later. With salicine there is merely an indication of this change, falling within the limits of errors of observation; but in the other cases it is quite perceptible, and with phlorizine the shifting of the band of absorption produced by an acid is very large. Fraxine (or paviine) agrees remarkably with aesculine in all its optical characters; the maximum of absorption is merely situated a little nearer to the red, and the tint of the fluorescent light corresponds to a slightly lower mean refrangibility. Quinine presents no decided maximum of transparency. With this and the other bases observed, with one exception, the absorption, if changed at all, is changed in an opposite manner to the glucosides when the base is set free by ammonia. Bands of absorption occur also with neutral substances, for example coumarine and paranaphthaline, which last exhibits a system of such bands in the invisible part of the solar spectrum. Aconitine, atropine, and solanine exhibit no bands of absorption, but merely a general 4 o2 610 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. opacity for the more refrangible rays. The last, indeed, when dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid, is, for this class of bodies, remarkably transparent; while when the base is set free the solution, contrary to what takes place with the other bases, becomes much more opaque, but the absorption is vague. I am not sure, however, how far the purity of the specimen examined may be trusted, though it was white, and regularly crystallized. It would be easy to examine more such substances; but what precedes is sufficient to show the value of the study of the absorption of the rays of high refrangibility, as affording distinctive characters of substances little known. Minerals. I have examined a large number of minerals by the rays from the induction spark, both as to their transparency and as to their fluorescence. The transparency of those crystals which were of such a form as to permit it, was examined by holding them in front of a pure spectrum formed on a fluorescent screen. The fluorescence was sought for by forming an image of the spark, for which aluminium electrodes were employed, by the 2-5-inch lens, holding the mineral first at the focus of the visible rays, and then moving it up towards the lens, and watching for any image which might be formed by the rays of higher refrangibility. Should such be observed, its nature was further demonstrated by interposing in the path of the rays a very thin piece of mica. This cut off the image by intercepting the invisible rays, with respect to which, except a small portion of the lowest refrangibility, mica is intensely opaque. Carbonate of lime, the sulphates of lime, baryta, and strontia, and colourless fluorspar, were found transparent (sulphate of strontia less so), at least in the qualified sense above mentioned, thus demonstrating the transparency of carbonic, sulphuric, and probably hydrofluoric acid, and of the bases, lime, baryta, strontia. But this subject would be better followed out by salts artificially prepared, and has been investigated by Dr. MILLER. In two cases results of considerable interest were obtained with reference to fluorescence. At the time of writing my first paper, on the change of refrangibility of light, I had found but one mineral, yellow uranite, to the essential constituents of which the property of fluorescence plainly belongs ** In many other cases, both before and since that time, I have observed with solar light fluorescence in minerals, but always apparently having reference to unknown impurities, and therefore to my mind of much inferior interest. By means of the induction spark, employed as above described, I have found one more fluorescent mineral j. On receiving the image on adularia, and focusing it for the rays of highest refrangi-*) Philosophical Transactions for 1852, p. 524. t The method by which M:. EDMOND BIECQUErEL has examined the fluorescence of minerals (Annales de Chimie, se'r. iii. tom. lvii. p. 43) does not permit of distinct vision of the specimen from the distance of a few inches, which seems to me necessary to allow the observer to judge whether the fluorescence which may be observed is due to the essential constituents of the crystal or to accidental impurities. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 611 bility, a pair of bluish dots were seen, which were the images of the tips of the electrodes exhibited by fluorescence. As the appearance was everywhere the same, on natural faces and cleavage planes alike, and the same was observed with colourless felspars generally from different localities, it is doubtless a property of the silicate of alumina and potash constituting the crystal. Some specimens, it is true, did not show the effect so strongly as adularia or moonstone; but this is easily explained by the greater purity of the latter varieties. For the fluorescence extended to a very sensible though small depth within the crystal, and yet the rays producing it were cut off by a film of mica much thinner than paper. The intense opacity of mica is doubtless due to peroxide of iron, which nevertheless forms no more than perhaps 5 per cent. of the mineral. Hence a very small percentage of peroxide of iron, or any other impurity having a similar absorbing action, would suffice greatly to reduce the quantity of fluorescent light emitted. In a concentrated solar beam passed through a suitable absorbing medium, adularia did not show the least sign of fluorescence, in which respect it notably differs from common glass, such as window-glass. The other case of interest relates to a particular variety of fluor-spar found at Alston Moor in Cumberland. This variety is very pale by transmitted light, being in part of a brownish purple colour, shows a strong blue fluorescence, and is eminently phosphorescent on exposure to the electric spark. On presenting such a crystal to the spark passing between aluminium electrodes, besides the usual blue fluorescence there is seen another of a reddish colour, extending not near so far into the crystal. On receiving on the crystal the image of the spark, and moving the crystal from the focus of the invisible rays towards the lens, it was soon in best focus for the rays producing the blue fluorescence. It had to be moved much nearer to the lens before it came into focus for the rays producing the reddish fluorescence, and was then at the distance at which a welldefined image of the tips of the electrodes is formed on the uranium salt; which proves that the reddish fluorescence was produced by the rays belonging to the bright lines (considered as a whole) of aluminium of extreme refrangibility. The crystal which showed this effect best was externally colourless for about the 2l th of an inch, which stratum showed no fluorescence when examined in this way. Then came one or two strata, parallel to the faces of the cube, showing the ruddy fluorescence, and exhausting apparently the rays capable of producing that effect. The blue fluorescence extended much deeper, and presented a stratified appearance, as Sir DAvID BREWSTER long ago observed. On admitting a pencil concentrated by a quartz lens parallel to and almost grazing a face of the cube, so that the rays traversed the colourless stratum, the reddish fluorescence was observed in the stratum which produced it to a long distance from the face by which the rays were admitted, which demonstrates the transparency of fluoride of calcium for the rays of very high refrangibility. The property of exhibiting such a well-marked effect under the exclusive influence of rays of extreme refrangibility, renders such a crystal a useful instrument of research. 612 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. Several other metals besides aluminium show the reddish fluorescence; but none of those examined showed it so well, partly because it is evidently produced more copiously by aluminium electrodes, and partly because it is less masked by the blue fluorescence, the spectrum of aluminium being rather wanting in brightness until the region of extreme refrangibility is reached. If the crystal be held near the electrodes, and observed while their distance changes, it will be found that on passing from the greatest striking distance the reddish fluorescence decidedly improves. On still further diminishing the distance between the electrodes, the reddish fluorescence appears still to increase; though whether this is a real absolute increase or only an increasing preponderance over the blue, it is not easy in this way to say for certain. Hence the copiousness of rays of high refrangibility increases at first, and continues to increase relatively if not absolutely. It is supposed that the jar is sufficiently large to prevent the discharge from degenerating into what will be presently described as the arc discharge. If the crystal be held close to the contact-breaker when the secondary terminals are separated, and the effect be compared with that of the secondary discharge (a jar being in connexion, as has been supposed all along), the electrodes being of platinum for fairness of comparison, it will be found that the proportion of rays of extremely high refrangibility is decidedly greater for the spark at the contact-breaker than for the secondary discharge. On forming by the 2*5-inch lens an image of the spark from aluminium electrodes, and placing a crystal, such as that above mentioned, in the focus of the rays producing the reddish fluorescence, it is easy to determine the transparency or opacity of substances for those rays, the alteration of the focus by the introduction of a thick plate being of course borne in mind, and the crystal moved accordingly. The rays forming the image have had to pass only through air, and through a very small thickness of quartz, before reaching the crystal. In this way I have found that even quartz itself in very moderate thickness is opaque for these rays; but different specimens, or different parts of the same specimen, vary in this respect. I possess a large plate 0-42 inch thick, cut perpendicular to the axis of the crystal, which is generally transparent, but is slightly brownish on one side, to the distance of about half an inch from the face of the hexagonal prism. The colourless part of this plate, beyond a little distance from the brownish part, is opaque for the rays in question *, while the brownish part is nearly transparent. It may be inferred that the colourless part contains a minute quantity of some impurity capable of absorbing these rays, which does not exist, at least to the same extent, in the brownish part, although the latter is not perfectly pure silica, as is shown by its colour. On the * It should be mentioned that this part contains those delicate, definitely directed, elongated lamina or crystals, hardly visible except in a beam of sunlight, which are called by practical opticians " blue shoots." An examination of a number of cut pieces of quartz lent me by Mr. DARKER confirms me in the suspicion that such crystals are more defective in transparency than other colourless specimens for the rays of extreme refrangibility.-JulrI 1862. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 613 whole, I am disposed to think that quartz, if it were rigorously pure, would be transparent. We see at any rate how difficult it is to draw certain conclusions respecting the transparency or opacity of a substance which, in the state of purity in which it may be obtained, shows only a slight defect of transparency. I tried reflecting the rays from the spark by a fine Munich grating, but the light was far too faint to be of any use. Possibly a large and very closely ruled plane speculum, with a concave speculum instead of a lens, might give light which it would be possible to observe. But at present I have not found any sufficiently marked effects referable to rays of still higher refrangibility to make it worth trying. The same crystal which showed the reddish fluorescence was eminently phosphorescent, with a blue colour. The phosphorescence, like the fluorescence, was arranged in strata parallel to the faces of the cube, and, like the reddish but unlike the blue fluorescence, was not perceptible beyond a moderate distance from the surface at which the exciting rays had entered. On forming an image of the discharge by the 2 5-inch lens, focusing the crystal for the rays producing the reddish fluorescence, fixing it there, and breaking the circuit after the induction coil had worked for a little while, a dart of blue phosphorescent light was seen in the crystal at the focus of the lens. On focusing for the rays most efficient in producing the blue fluorescence, the reddish was diffused over a broad portion of the strata producing it; and on repeating the above experiment in this position of the crystal, the blue phosphorescence was seen similarly diffused. This shows that the rays of extremely high refrangibility are those most efficient in producing the blue phosphorescence. [We may suppose that the blue fluorescence, the reddish fluorescence, and the blue phosphorescence are due to the action of the assemblage of heterogeneous exciting rays on the same substance (doubtless some impurity taken up during crystallization), or on two or three distinct substances. The blue fluorescence is produced abundantly at a depth within the crystal at which the two other effects are invisible; but this alone is no proof of a diversity in the nature of the substance acted on, because the rays producing the two latter effects would have been absorbed before arriving at such a depth. Hence it is among the early strata, in crossing which rays capable of producing each of the three effects are still vigorous, that evidence must be sought, in the coincidence or non-coincidence of the strata in which the three effects are respectively perceived, of the probable identity or certain diversity of nature of the substance acted on. At the time when this paper was read I fancied I had observed slight discrepancies as to coincidence in the strata. But a renewed examination, in which a larger number of specimens were observed, leads me to regard the fancied discrepancies as too doubtful to rely upon and to overpower the increasing weight of evidence on the other side. The blue fluorescence may be observed in the early strata (which ordinarily, at least with electrodes of aluminium and several other metals, show a red) by absorbing the more refrangible of the exciting rays by a suitable plate of quartz, or else by substituting for aluminium some metal, such as magnesium, which is poor in rays of extreme refran614 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. gibility. On the other hand, the red fluorescence really existing in the early strata, when it is overpowered by the blue, may be seen by viewing the crystal through a solution of chromate of potash, which greatly enfeebles the blue fluorescence, while at the same time it transmits enough of the spectrum to allow the unabsorbed residue to be at once distinguishable by its colour (green) from the red fluorescence. In this way the red fluorescence may be readily perceived even with electrodes of magnesium. Again, a particular stratum which showed a blue fluorescence when acted on by rays which entered by a face of the cube, and before reaching it had to traverse some other strata showing fluorescence, exhibited a red fluorescence when acted on by rays which fell on it directly, having been admitted through an octahedral face. It is more difficult to decide as to the identity or diversity of the strata showing respectively red fluorescence and blue phosphorescence, because the two effects are observed in a different way; but as far as I could decide, the strata appeared to correspond. On the whole, then, I am disposed to think it probable that it is the same substance which, in consequence of the action of rays beginning with a part of the violet and extending from thence onwards, exhibits a blue fluorescence, which, in consequence of the action of rays of extreme refrangibility, exhibits a red fluorescence, and which, in consequence of the action of rays of a similar refrangibility, exhibits a powerful blue phosphorescence. At least, if the substances be different they would appear to have coexisted in solution, and so to have been taken up together in the crystallization of the mineral. I should mention, however, that it is contrary to all my experience that the fluorescence of a single substance (i. e. not a mixture) should thus, as it were, take a fresh start with a totally different colour on proceeding onwards in the spectrum; but then my experience is derived mainly from the examination of substances in the comparatively short solar spectrum.-July 1862.1 I have said that the phosphorescence was produced in certain strata within the crystal. These strata were in some places sharply terminated, so as to be foreshortened into well-defined lines. On watching the phosphorescence, there was nothing to be seen at all like conduction; the strata remained sharply defined as long as the light was strong enough to enable one to judge. This is at variance with one of the two results which, on the authority of others, I formerly mentioned as indicating a distinction between phosphorescence and fluorescences.. On trying shortly afterwards along with Mr. FARADAY, I could not obtain either of these results. One of them, that relating to apparent conduction, which was obtained by MM. BNOT and A. C. BECQUEREL, has since been explained by M. EDMOND BECQUEREL as an illusion of observationt. The other, that relating to the production of phosphorescence in CANTON'S phosphorus by rays which had traversed a strong solution of bichromate of potash, I am, after a conversation with Dr. DRAPER, still unable to explain.* Philosophical Transactions for 1852, p. 547. tAnnales de Chimie, tom. lv. (1859) p. 112. P:ROFESSOR STOKES ON TUE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 615 Advantage of Broad Electrodes. At first I employed by preference wires or sharp pieces of metal for electrodes, in consequence of the greater facility with which the discharge passed, and the larger quantity of light given out by the spark. Certain considerations, however, led me to try broad electrodes; and I accordingly procured electrodes of the common metals shaped like small watch-glasses, about an inch in diameter. These showed in some cases a most marked superiority over thin wires, exhibiting the invisible metallic lines in far greater strength, while with some metals there was not much difference. With copper, for example, the superiority was very great, with iron it was comparatively small. Instead of electrodes of this shape, it is sufficient to take two pieces of thick foil, make them slightly cylindrical by means of a round ruler, or a pencil, and mount them with their convexities opposed and the axes of the cylinders crossed. Besides copper, silver, tin, and aluminium show a great advantage of flat electrodes, and lead a moderate advantage, while with zinc, as with iron, sharp electrodes are nearly as good. Brass agrees in this respect with zinc, and not with copper, though it shows the copper lines very strongly. With such electrodes, however, the spark dances about; and its unsteadiness is objectionable in some experiments. A good part of the advantage of flat electrodes is however retained if one only be flat, especially if this be negative, and the spark is now steadier. Instead of using the end of a wire to combine with a flat electrode, it seems rather better, according to a plan suggested to me by Dr. MILLER, to bend a wire to a gentle curve lying in a vertical plane passing through the prism; or the edge of a flat piece of metal may be similarly employed. On forming an image of the spark between a sharp and a flat electrode of copper, and receiving it on a fluorescent screen, the flat electrode gave the brighter of the two images already mentioned, and that, whether the electrode were positive or negative. On similarly forming an image of the spark between two very broad electrodes, and focusing for the rays of highest refrangibility, the image did not, as usual, consist of two separate dots; but whether it was, that, from the shortness of the spark, the two ran into one, or that the rays belonging to the metallic lines of high refrangibility were emitted throughout the whole length of the spark, I am not quite certain; but I incline to the latter opinion, as a separation of the discharge into two portions, corresponding to the immediate neighbourhood of the two electrodes respectively, could hardly have escaped detection had it existed. Arc Discharge, and Lines of Blue Negative Light. On diminishing the distance between the electrodes, formed suppose of copper wires, the brightness of the metallic lines at first improves, and afterwards changes but little, or, if anything, rather falls off. On still further diminishing the distance, so that the electrodes almost touch, and the discharge passes with little noise, a new set of strong lines make their appearance in the invisible region of moderate refrangibility. In this MDCCCLXII. 41? 616 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRIUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. mode of discharge, in which the negative electrode, if at all thin, quickly becomes red-hot and fuses, the jar has not much influence, and the lines in question are still better seen when it is suppressed altogether. To show them to perfection, it is best to take a flat negative electrode, so as to carry off the heat, and not to hide from the prism any part of the blue negative light, and a sharp positive electrode almost touching the former. In this way the visible discharge is reduced almost wholly to an insignificant-looking star of blue light; but it is wonderful how strong an effect it is capable of producing in the invisible region. The most striking part of the invisible spectrum consists of four bright lines, numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 in fig. 1, situated not far from the visible spectrum. These are followed, after a nearly dark interval, by light arranged in masses resembling in its general aspect the groups of copper lines (from which, however, it differs), but not strong enough to be resolved or accurately measured. The figure represents also a couple of blue bands (b, 1Y) seen by projection. These are not seen on looking at the blue light directly with a flint-glass prism of 600, because everything is seen in too great detail. Most of the air-lines in the invisible spectrum, especially the bands beyond line 4, have an ill-defined look, and would probably be resolved did the intensity of the light permit. The appearance just described is independent of the nature of the electrodes, and therefore is to be referred to the air, and not to the metal. On viewing in a moving mirror the star of light producing this effect, it is found to have a considerable duration. On slightly separating the electrodes, forming an image of the discharge with the 25-inch lens, and receiving it on a cake of the uranium salt, a very strong fluorescence was seen over the image of the blue disk when the lens was focused for a point a little beyond the visible spectrum. On moving the lens onwards, the fluorescence produced by the rays belonging to this image spread out into a ring; and on moving still further, a tolerably well-defined image of the whole discharge was perceived. Of this the part belonging to the blue disk was the brightest, and was surrounded concentrically by the ring before mentioned, now still further widened. The image of the remainder of the discharge was brightest where it was most contracted at the positive electrode. The discharge generally was perhaps of slightly higher refrangibility than the blue disk, even excluding from the latter the rays belonging to the ring. It thus appears that the four bright lines figured were produced mainly by the blue negative light. The mode of transition of the discharge may be studied by placing the electrodes at the greatest striking-distance and making them gradually approach. At first there passes a clean bright spark making a sharp report, and not resolved by a revolving mirror. The invisible spectrum which this shows is too faint for precise observation; the visible spectrum shows chiefly air-lines. As the electrodes approach, the spark becomes clothed by the well-known yellowish envelope capable of being blown aside, and the blue negative light begins to appear. A moving mirror, as M. LISSAJOUS has already observed*, shows an instantaneous spark at the commencement, in point of time,* See Du MONCEL, 'IRecherches sur la non-homog'neit6 de l'6tincelle d'induction,' p. 107. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGIlT. 617 of the envelope and blue negative light, both which are drawn out, indicating a very appreciable duration. On making the electrodes approach somewhat nearer, the spark diminishes, and the envelope is formed in perfection, especially with broad electrodes. The air-lines now begin to show themselves well, but are brightest on the side of the spectrum answering to the blue negative light. It might be supposed at first sight that the permanence of the yellowish and of the blue light only indicated a glow of appreciable duration left by a sensibly instantaneous discharge; but several circumstances indicate that the discharge itself lasts, and that it is under its action that the glow takes place*. The action, I am persuaded, is this: a spark first passes; and this enables a continuous discharge to pass, which is due, in part at least, to the inductive action of the still falling magnetism, just as a voltaic arc may be started in a powerful battery by passing an electric spark between the slightly separated electrodes; and the glowing of the air under the action of this discharge produces the yellowish envelope and blue negative light. Thus, when the electrodes are nearly at the greatest distance at which this sort of discharge takes place, the blue negative light is seen pretty sharply terminated in a moving mirror. Were it a dying glow, it ought to fade away; but if produced under a discharge, it ought to cease almost abruptly, inasmuch as at this distance of the electrodes a continuous discharge is unable to pass when the tension has sunk much below that under which it was first produced. The same conclusion may be drawn from an effect which I once obtained, the exact conditions for the production of which it is not easy to hit off. With a jar in connexion, each discharge due to a single breach of contact appeared in a moving mirror as a bright spark joined to a spark less bright by the blue negative light, and also by the yellowish or reddish light, brightest close to the positive electrode. Were the blue light due to a glow, it ought to be reinforced instead, of being put out by the second spark, whereas the explanation of the result is easy on the supposition of a continuous discharge. The first spark started a continuous discharge, which emptied the jar less fast than it was filled by the secondary coil; so that presently another discharge took place, which emptied the jar so that a continuous discharge could no longer pass. On viewing the broad discharge formed without a jar when the electrodes are at a moderate distance, through a revolving disk of black paper with a single hole near the circumference, while the envelope was being blown aside, so as to get a succession of momentary views of the discharge, the envelope was seen extravagantly bent, as a flexible conductor might have been-not torn across, as a column might have been which was heated by a previous spark. The central spark, of course, was usually missing, as it is sensibly instantaneous. I have spoken of the arc, and especially the blue negative light, as exhibiting air-lines. The arc, however, is liable to be coloured not only by casual dust (as when it passes partly through the flame of a spirit-lamp with a salted wick, when it is coloured yellow * Although this view may be considered already established (see the work by the Vicomte Du MONCEL just quoted), the observations here mentioned will not, I hope, be altogether useless. 4P2 618 PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. by sodium), but also by matter torn from the positive electrode. This is well seen with electrodes of aluminium, when the arc or a portion of it is frequently coloured green. This green light has a very sensible duration, and a distinctive prismatic composition, and is brighter towards the positive than towards the negative electrode, but is not confined to the immediate neighbourhood of that electrode (extending indeed sometimes over almost the whole length of the arc), in which respect, and in its duration, it differs from the light of the spark proper*. With aluminium opposed to another metal, as copper or iron, the green light is seen only when the aluminium is positive. Even with aluminium this light may generally be got rid of by making the electrodes approach; and it is the arc in what may thus be deemed its normal state that was observed for the construction of the last line of fig. 1, though I have not at present noticed variations in the invisible corresponding with those in the visible spectrum of the arc discharge. On the Cause of the Advantage of Broad Electrodes; and on the Heating of the Negative Electrode. Although the spark appears instantaneous when viewed in a moving mirror, it must yet occupy a certain time; so that we have in fact a brief electric current, to which we may apply OHM'S laws. The electromotive force is here the difference of tensions of the coatings of the jar. As to the resistance, the short metallic part of the circuit may be neglected, and we need only attend to the place of the discharge. The resistance here may be divided into. that due to the air and that due to the parts of the electrodes close to the points of discharge. That the latter is by no means insignificant, may be inferred from the enormous temperature to which minute portions of the electrodes are raised, as indicated by the excessively high refrangibility of the rays emitted by the metals, in the state doubtless of vapour. By the use of flat electrodes the strikingdistance is materially diminished, without any change in the difference of tension of the coatings of the jar. Hence the electricity which it contains passes at a higher velocity, and therefore produces a more powerful effect on the metals. The injurious effect of the introduction of a small resistance was very strikingly shown with broad, slightly curved copper electrodes, three inches in diameter, by leading wires from a coating of the jar into a tumbler of water, and from thence to the corresponding electrode, when the spark became quite insignificant in comparison to what it had been. With one sharp and one flat electrode placed near together, bright sparks passed when the connexion was metallic, and the invisible spectrum then showed the copper lines, with one or two air-lines not conspicuous; but when water was interposed the spark was greatly reduced, and the invisible spectrum showed the air-lines. In both cases the spark was followed by an arc discharge, as might be seen in a moving mirror; and in the latter case the arc discharge was increased in consequence of the diminution * The outer part of the jar-spark between aluminium electrodes has the same green colour and prismatic composition, though inl this case the green light i8 sensibly inlstanataneous.-Julyr 1802. PROFESSOR STOKES ON THE LONG SPECTRUM OF ELECTRIC LIGHT. 619 of the spark, which, though necessary to start it, was formed at its expense; and as in the arc discharge the jar was idle, the increase of resistance in a circuit already comprising the secondary coil was unimportant. The fact that the blue negative light which appears when the arc discharge is formed shows air-lines, points to the air as the seat of the intense action which there takes place; and the very high refrangibility of some of the rays emitted, and the copiousness of those rays, indicate how intense that action is. The heating of the negative electrode seems to be a secondary effect, not due to the direct passage of the electricity through the metal (for the section through which it passes is not by any means small), but to the heat communicated from the film of air investing it. Small as is the mass of the film compared with that of the portion of the electrode adjacent to it, the rate at which heat is communicated is enormous. Thus with a positive point nearly touching underneath a negative electrode of platinum foil containing water, the foil is kept red-hot under the water, though the mere passage of electricity through the metal would be quite inadequate to produce that effect. Corresponding to the heating of the electrode by the air is the cooling of the air by the electrode; and such a powerful abstraction of heat can hardly take place without altering the state of the film of air in relation to its power of conducting electricity. This would seem to be the reason why the film of air in contact with the negative electrode behaves so differently from any arbitrary section of the column along which the discharge takes place, and from offering greater resistance becomes the seat of a more intense emission of highly refrangible rays. At the positive electrode, at which, for whatever reason, the issue of electricity is confined almost to a point, nothing of this kind takes place; but, from the contraction of the section through which the electricity has to pass in the electrode, a minute portion of the metal of which it is composed is so highly acted on that matter belonging to the electrode is liable to appear in the arc. These views lead to curious speculations respecting the negative light in highly exhausted tubes, and respecting the remarkable reversion of heating-effect which Mr. GAssIoT has obtained according as the discharge is intermittent or continuous*, but I forbear to speculate further.* Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xi. p. 329. 