Michael Russel, Esq; F. R. S. to the President, concerning the same. Honoured Sir, Hartstreet, March 14. 1749. A S there happen'd some particular Circumstances in the last violent Shock of an Earthquake, that were not taken notice Read March 15. 1749. [632] tice of at our last Meeting, I presume therefore to send you the Observations I made thereon, as they appeared to me at my House in Bloomsbury. On Thursday Morning last, about half an Hour after 5 o' Clock in the Morning, I was awaken'd by a violent Percussion of my Bed; the Shocks, I apprehend, lasted about 10 or 12 Seconds of a Minute; because my Bed was rock'd from one Side to the other several times. The Motion appeared to me to be in a horizontal Direction. I heard no Noise before the Shake; but if any, it might perhaps occasion my being so thoroughly awaken'd. My Servants told me they heard a Report like a great Blast of Wind with a Clattering and Snapping of the Windows and Doors of the House, as they expressed it. In my Dining-Room there was an India Cabinet, on which was placed some ornamental China, Part of which was thrown down on the Floor, and some broke. But what, Sir, was most remarkable, I had two China Figures placed on the Cabinet, with their Faces fronting the West, which were, by the several Shocks, turned about facing the N. E. which I took to be nearly one Third of the Circumference of a Circle. In this Situation I found them as soon as soon as I arose in the Morning; and I am assured nobody had been in the Room before to displace them. Since, I was told by some Company, that were at my House, that a Porter was going down Chancery-Lane to call a Gentleman to go to the Brentford Election, and, in his Way, as he called it, was struck with a Blast [633] Blast, turned round on his Heel, and fell down, and has not been well since. Also another Person, that was set out on some Business, was nearly turn'd round by the Shock; which seems a little to confirm the moving the China Figures in the Direction before-mention'd. If these Hints are worthy of your Notice, or to be communicated to the Learned Body of the Royal Society, they are at your Service. I am, with great Esteem, S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, Mich. Russel. XX. 