KALENDARIOR~REI~P COLLEGIVMPASTO PHORORVM~INDVS TRIENSIVM~PATRO NO~OB~MERITA~ T ~ OR AE ~ TROPHIMVS ~ IND ~ FAC ~ ~. ~ ~. XIV. Extract of a Letter from Mr. Arderon to Mr. Baker, F.R.S. giving an Account of the Weaver's Alarm, vulgo L A R U M. NOTHING is more true, than that Necessity is the Mother of Invention; among the many Instances of which, the useful Contrivance I am going to describe may serve as one remarkable Example. Read Dec. 12. 1745. This little Apparatus goes commonly by the Name of the Weaver's Larum, from its being chiefly or originally made use of by Persons employed in that Trade, who have frequently Occasion to get up very early to their Work: And, as I am informed, B b b b 2 Norwich [556] Norwich may boast of its first Appearance there, though I am unable to learn the Inventor's Name. However, the Simplicity of the Thing itself, and the singular Service it may be of to Multitudes of People, renders it (I believe you'll think) not undeserving Notice. The Materials necessary to compose this little TimePiece or Monitor, are nothing more than a small Candle, of fourteen or fifteen Inches in Length, a Piece of Thread or Packthread, a graduated Board, and a common Stone, or any other ponderous Body: But the Drawing added hereto (TAB. I. Fig. 3.) will fully explain my Meaning. A Represents a Board, which hangs commonly against a Wall, divided and figured according to the Size of the Candle made use of *. B, A little Shelf to place the Candle on. CC, A Thread or Packthread, tied fast at D, and hanging over a Pulley at E, whereto a Weight is hung at F. By sliding the Spring of the Candlestick G, up or down, as Occasion requires, the Flame of the Candle is raised as many Hours above the Thread as the Person that adjusts it designs to lie before he is called up. At the desired Hour the Candle burns the Thread in two, the Weight falls, and, by its Noise, seldom fails to wake the Person. But * For want of such a Board a common Ruler is frequently used, to set the Number of Hours between the Flame of the Candle and the Thread. [557] But if the Man who makes use of this Contrivance happens to be of a more than commonly sleepy Disposition, in such Case another Thread is tied to that Part of the Line CC which is next the Pulley, and its other End is twisted round the Thumb or Wrist of the sleepy Person, whereby, when the Candle burns the Line, and the Weight falls, he receives such a sudden Pull as can hardly fail to wake him, as the Drawing will easily explain. If the Line for a few Inches on each Side the Candle be Wire with a short Thread only just in the Middle where the <inferred>Candle</inferred> is placed, there can be no Danger of doing Mischief by the Fire's running along the Line. And thus may the poorest Mechanic provide himself with an useful Servant at a very small Expence. Dec. 10. 1745. 