(324) V. Part of a Letter from the Reverend Mr. Samuel Carte, Rector of St. Margaret's Parish in Leicester, to Mr. Humfrey Wanley, F. R. S. Concerning an Ancient Tessellated, or Mosaic Work, at Leicester. S I R, I Take this Opportunity to send you a draught, made by one Benjamin Garland, of the Opus Tessellatum, <inferred>still</inferred> extant in a Cellar here, over against the Elm Trees, near All-Saints Church. It is generally called Actaeon, by such Authors as mention it; but the bare Inspection of it will convince you, that it is a Representation of the Fable, which says, that a Person having found fault with Venus, she, to be revenged of him, engaged her Son Cupid to make him fall in Love with a Monster. It was first discovered about 40 Years ago, upon digging of the Cellar, at about a Yard and half under the common present Surface of the Earth. What extent the whole Pavement was of is not known; but this Figure, which, by order of the Master of the House, was preserved, is an Octogon, surrounded by a List, as you see in part represented in the corners of the Picture herewith sent you. Without this, tho' not here represented, is a Twist or Wreath of various Colours; and round that, is a second List like the former. These two Lists, with the Wreath between them, are 6 Inches and a 1/4 broad. The downright and transverse Diameters of the Area are just a Yard; but the others, leading from corner to corner, are a Yard and two Inches and an half. The Man, from Head to Foot, is two Foot and 4 1/2 Inches. Cupid seems See the Figure. (325) seems to be two Foot; but his Feet, as well as the bottom of the Monster, are spoiled, the Tessellae representing them being gone. You will easily understand, that the whole Area of the Figure, which is here left blank, ought to be fill'd up with white Tessellae, in like manner as you see some Intervals of the Figures here. I hope, that what foregoes, will serve to give you a just Idea of this Piece of Antiquity, but forbear to make any Reflections on it, as knowing that your Genius and Studies qualify you for that much better than my self. I am, Sir, Leicester, Your Affectionate Friend August 7. 1710. and humble Servant, S A M U E L C A R T E. 