303 J XVIII. An Account of a Calculus from the Human Bladder of uncommon Magnitude. By Sir James Earle, F. R. S. Read June 15, 1809. SIR WALTER OGILVIE, Bart. of Dundee, an officer in the regiment of Scotch Greys, at the age of twenty-three, active and healthy, was crossing the ferry at Leith, when he received a blow on his back, from the boom of the vessel, which paralized the pelvis and lower extremities. During two months he was obliged to have his water drawn off; for fourteen months he remained in bed, or in a horizontal posture, and though he then recovered the use of the bladder, and of his limbs, sufficiently to walk across the room with the help of crutches, and also to ride, when placed on an easy low horse, his health continued many years in a weak and precarious state, while the limbs acquired little additional strength or powers. About twenty years after the accident, perceiving symptoms of stone in the bladder, he was examined by Mr. BENJAMIN BELL at Edinburgh, and a stone was felt, which was judged to have attained a -considerable size; the operation of extraction was then recommended, but was postponed from time to time, though his health declined, and the irritation and pains in the bladder gradually increased. Sir WALTER continued to endure this state of existence twenty-eight years from the time of the accident, when he R r 2 304 Sir JAMES EARLE'S Account of a Calculus became unable to make water in an erect position; this inconvenience increased to such a degree, that latterly he could smake none without standing almost on his head, so as to cause the upper part of the bladder to become the lower, and thiL lie was obliged to do frequentily, sometimes every ten minutes, as the quantity at each tine was less than the measure of a wine glass; and vhe'n he used exercise, it was tinged with blood. The principal remedies which had been prescribed for him were aqua calcis and uva ursi; but he never persisted long in the use of either. At times, when the pain was violent, he had recourse to opium by the mouth and per an urn: this, added to a naturally costive habit of body, rendered necessary the frequent assistance of aperients. At the age of fifty-three, thirty years after the accident, the spasms and fits of pain, from the urgent desire to void urine, became so frequent and violent, and his life so completely miserable, that he was determined to have the stone extracted. I received a letter, requesting my opinion whether a paralytic state of the lower limyabs was a prohibition to the operation of lithotomy;X on my reply to the contrary, he was put on b)oard a ship and conveyed to the Thames, brought in a boat to HLungerford Stairs, and in an easy carriage to Hanover-street, without suffering any inconvenience of material consequence. Toward the latter end of July, 8o8, I visited him, when he gave mne a clear and distinct account of what has been related, and added, that the stone could be evidently felt above the os pubis. At first, I much doubted of the large prominent tumor Which I saw in the lower part of the belly, being a stone) but on attempting to pass the sound, it would not enter the bladder, from the Human Bladder. has being stopped by a solid mass; and on further examination, I was thoroughly convinced that there was a stone of sufficient size to fill the bladder. lie said he came to England with a determination to have it extracted, if it were possible, and desired my opinion as to its practicability. On such an extraordinary and important case I declined an immediate answer, but requested a consultation; and Mr. CLINE was appointed to meet me. After mature consideration of every circumstance, we were of opinion that the possibility of extraction mnust depend on the consistence of the stone; if it proved soft as is well known to be frequently the case, it might be taken away; but if too hard to be broken, it would be too large to be extracted whole, and must be left. The operation of extracting it above the os pubis was thoroughly considered, and concluded to be uncertain and dank gerous, because the bladder, thickened and exquisitely irritable, could nlot bear to be further distended with fluid, and the stone, although so large, had not raised it sufficiently high to obvia.te thre danger of wounding the per itoneum, and penetratin)g into the cavity of the abdomen: the usual lateraloperation was therefore judged to be the only safe tand probable means to be attempted. After some days consideration, Sir WALTER, tnoroughly and perfectiy aware of the difficulties which might reasotnably be apprehended in the extraction, from the magnitude, and also from the uncertainty of the structure and consistence of the stone, determined to submit to the operation, and Mr. (CLINE was requested to perform it. on Thursday, August i th, hie was placed in the usual so6 Sir JAMES SEARLE'S Account of a Calculus situation, and the proper ligatures were applied; but it was soon found that the lower limbs were so incapable of action or resistance, that they were left unconfined. The staff could be passed in no farther than the neck of the bladder; the division of the urethra and prostate gland was made with the scalpel and probe-pointed bistouri: when this was accordplished, it was found impossible to introduce any kind of forceps; but on pressing hard with the finger, part of the stone felt soft, gave way, and made some room for the forceps, which brought away several portions, and with the assistance of a scoop, as much stone was extracted as would have filled a large tea-cup; but the great mass, beyond what the finger could reach on either side, still remained hard and impenetrable, and after repeated trials with forceps of different kinds, and of the strongest powers, it was found impossible farther to reduce the size of it, or take it away. The pafient bore the several attempts, and the necessarily protracted operation, with great firmness; probably, from the paralized state of the parts, the natural acuteness of sensation was blunted; however, as from weakness and fatigue he was becoming much exhausted, and the complete extraction appeared clearly out of our power, it was judged right to relinquish any further endeavours. No hemorrhage ensued, he became calm and composed, and passed a tolerably good night; the next dav he complained only of the same kind of-spasms, and frequent pressing -desire to void urine that hfe had been accustomed to feel, and not in any very great degree more acute. As some proof of this, he was frequently inquiring when I thought the wound would be in a state to adrmit of the extraction of the remainder. from. tle H uma Bladder. 307 The second night passed nearly the sane, without tension. of the belly, the urine flowing throucgh the yound, and some by the penis ; thie third day he complained much of the ternde.-neoss of the abdomen, Which was tense and painful, and peritonlitis see ned rapidly to be taking place, which, honwever, was lessened anad quieted by bleeding and fomentations, and he again becamne easy: this state continued for several days, but he complained much of the frequent returns of his former spas ins, after eaca of which a small quantity of urine was evacuated. He was nourished wita broths, jellies, &c. but would take nothing solid, not even bread in any forn. ; after the fifth day, hie ate a few oysters some fish, or caicken, drank occasionally of porter, and his health and strength were improving ; but though these favourable symptoms continued, with the abdomen soft and easy, so as to bear examination by the hand, and all inflammatorv action was subsided, yet the repeated spasms continually broke his rest, and kept himn in a constant state of wrritation, obliging hiln to violentm eforts in resisting the l-1i and, to get instantly on his knees, with his head low on the bed, to enable qim to expel the urinee; and one spasm 'frequently succeeding before the former had, well suLbsilded, k1ept his whole i-rame hi c 'ontinual agitation, to the geaLest p ssible degree that nature could bear. All these sensations and occurrences were very similar to what he had experienced for several months before he left Scotland,; and iL Was then the opinion of Mr. STEWART, a medical gentleman who accom-mpanied Sir WALTER to England, that hbi complaints were increasing to such a degree, that it was scarcely possible for him to exist much longer. In his present situation, of course, such shocks and disturbances of the whoie animal economy acted with 308 Sir JAMES EARLE'S Account of a Calculus increased effect, in proportion as he became less capable of supporting them. Toward the eighth day from the operation,. he was visibly growing weaker, his pulse smaller and quicker, his little inclination for food became less, and he was with difficulty prevailed on to take any; some cordial medicines, however, in some degree revived him; but on the ninth day he grew more impatient, feverish, and restless, and on the twenty-first of August, ten days after the operation, he den sired not to be teased to take any thing more; when, covering himself completely with the bed-clothes, he quietly resigned a most singularly miserable existence. Examination after Death. On opening the abdomen, the bladder was found much dis. eased and thickened, firmly embracing a stone of extraordinary magnitude, and appearing to be completely filled with it. On dividing the bladder from the os pubis backwards to the rectum, the stony mass was uncovered, which I attempted to take away with the largest forceps; but it was impossible. It was then raised bly getting the hand under it, with considerable difficulty, as the cohesion between the bladder and the stone was very strong, though there did not appear to be any diseased or distinct adhesions. When taken out, the form of the stone appeared to have been moulded by the bladder; the lower part, having been confined by the bony pelvis, took the impression of that cavity, and was smaller than the upper part, which having been unrestricted in its growth, except by the soft parts, was larger, and projected so as to lie on the os pubis. A large excavation had bin made in the lower part, which from the human Bldder. 39 lav on the neck of the bladder, by the operation. The internal structure was thus exposed, in which appeared distinct stones or nuclei, now consolidated into one mass, disposed in layers. The weight of thestone was forty-four ounces, or three pounds four ounces (apothecary's weight), the foirn of it elliptical, the periphery, on the longer axis, sixteen inches on the shorter fourteen. The kidneys were altered considerably in their texture, and their pelvis much enlarged, the left was pressed up higher than natural, and adhered firmly to the spleen. The right was attached to the ascending colon, and general adhesion had obtained between all the surrounding parts. The ureters were much increased in their dimensions and thickness, and were capable of containing a considerable quantity of fluid; they were in fact supplemnental bladders, the real bladder having become nothing more than a painful and difficult con-ductor of. urine, which trickled down in furrows formed by it oon the superior surface of the stone. This clearly explained the cause which obliged the patient, when compelled to evacuate urine, to put himself in that posture which made the -upper part of the bladder become the lower, by which means a relaxation or separation was allowed to take place between the bladder and the stone, so that the ureters had an opportunity of discharging their contents ; when the body was erect, their mouths, or valvular openings, must of course have been closed, by the pressure of the abdominal viscera on the bladder against the stone. His difficulty of voiding urine, appears to have gradually increased as the bladder became more and more filled with the stony matter, and the extremity of his distress did not come MDccCIx. S S * 10 ?irJAMES EARLE 'SA count of a Calculus on till the whole cavity was nearly choked up. From the appearances on the examination, it is more than probable that the mouths of the ureters would have been soon completely closed, when a total, and consequently fatal suppression of urine must have taken place. The disease probably originated when the patient was obliged to continue such a length of time on his back, in which position the surfacce of the water only maybe supposed to have been. as it were, decanted, and the bladder, seldom, if ever, completely emptied thus in a constitution, perhaps naturally inclined to form concretions, the ea-rthy particles subsided, and by attraction soon began to lay the rudiments of a stone, which was not felt above the brim of the pelvis till many years aftcr but from that time the gradual increase of it was perceptible to the patient, and his medical friends: from this circumLstance, as well as the shape of it, the stone evidently appears to have commenced within the pelvis, and in the lowest part of the bladder. The texture of it appeared different from the generality of calculi, and to contain more animal matter. In a short time it became highly putrid and offensive: after macerating a fewx hours in fresh water, the saline particles in its composition began to separate, large flakes separated from its surface, and I was convinced that if the rnaceration had been continued, the whole of the outer part would have crumbled away; it was therefore suffered to dry, and the putrid effluvia gray. dually went off. As a proof that animal matter abounded, the calculus not having been protected from the flies, maggots were produced in it at the end of a fortnight, which were destroyed by washing it with spirits. ]rosi tg lhuoian B/ladded. Dr. POWEL e ammIed its chemical composition, and informs ,me, that it decidedly consists of the triple phosphat of ammonia and magnesia, with phosphat oflime, forming together the fusible calculus of Dr. WOLLASTON (Phil. Trans. l7 797) mnixed with a certain portion of animal matter, which was separated and -floated under a membrane-like form, on the solution of the salts in diluted acids. That this compositon is demonstrable by all the usual relations to alkalies and diluted acids, and the precipitates from solutions in the latter, by amnmonia, and also by its fusion into enamel under the blow-pipe, and that the general external character of the calculus estab. lishes the same fact by its semi-transparent appearance, and regular prismatic crystals of the triple salt, discoverable by a magnifier, between the more compact layers. The nuclei were examined solely with the blow-pipe, fronm a wish not to disturb so fine a specimen beyond what had been done by the operation. By this examination they were found less fusible than the general mass, and appeared to contain a larger proportion of phosphat of lime, for by admixture of a portion of triple phosphat of magnesia, taken from another part of the same calculus, they were rendered as fusible as the rest. This calculus accords entirely with the description given by FouRcRoY (Syste'ne de Connoisancce Chemique), and confirms his farther observations on this species. " Ce sont aussi les "concretions urinaires les plus volumineuses de toutes el les "ont depuis le grosseur d'une ceuf jusqu'a' une vo'ume qui 'occupe toute la vessie, en la distendant me'me considerablement." From this passage, it should seem that sinilar iilStances Iai occurred to 1Monsieur FouncRoy; but from my Ssa . QVZ Sir JAMEs EARLE'S Account, &C. own observation, and from all the information I have been able to collect, no calculus from the human bladder, of such magnitude; has been hitherto exhibited, or described, in this country. JAMES EARLE. Hanover Square, Dec. 26, i8olt The annexed Plates are representations of its size and figure. Plate XVL shews the cavity which was made by the ink strumnents, It is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Londonm *_ | ~~~~%>^--hr--v v,.; _ ?-s ^M-wr, r(-~ / |||~~~,;fgr jiq ; ,#Aj1.fS |i_|h --V ,-0|rr ^-__ _ __. --------:_----~ -l~ -z .. ,, -,, , _, g" =/7 K ; Ph io x.1hi n jKI'D CC CIIYIPate XViT-p. 31 2.F 