RECEIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, Front November i815 to July it816. WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS. 18 5. PRESENTS. DONORS. Nov. 9. The Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, Vol. The Commissioners of 11. and III. I 8 I4. fol. Public Records. Registrum magni Sigilli Regum Scotorum in Archivis publicis asservatum, 1814. fol. Reports of the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to execute the Measures recommended in an Address of the House of Commons respecting the public Records of Ireland, 1815 .fol. A Description of the Collection of Ancient The Trustees of the BriMarbles in the British Museum, Part. II. Lontish Museum. don, i8ix. 40 A Philosophical and Mathematical Dictionary, Dr. Hutton. by Charles Hutton, LL.D. &c. London, 1815. z2 vols. 40 An Essay on Dew and several Appearances conDr. William Charles nected with it, by William Charles Wells, Wells. M. D. F. R. S.; Second Edition, London, i8is. 80 Episodes from the Shah Nameh or Annals of the Rev. Stephen Westoni. Persian Kings, by Ferdosee, translated into English verse, by Stephen Weston, B. D. F. R. S. Londoni, I8I5. 80 Memoirs of the Life of the Rev. Richard Price, William Morgan, Esq. D. D. F. R. S. by William Morgan, F. R. S. Lond. i8i5. 80 A Philosophical Treatise on the hereditary PeDr. Josephs Adams. culiarities of the Human Race. Second Edition, with an Appendix, by Joseph Adams, M. D. London, 1815. St MDCCCXVI. g A 362 J PRESENTS. DONORS. Pharmacopoeia Collegii Regalis Medicorum. The Royal College of Londinensis 1 8o9, edit. alt. London, i 8;5. 8" Physicians. Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, The Royal Society of Vol. VII. Part 2. 4a Edinburgh. Report on the pestilential Disorder of Andalusia, Sir James Fellowes, by Sir James Fellowes, M.D London, I 8 1 5. 8? A Collection of Treatises on the Effects of Solt Dr. Francis Balfour. Lunar influence in Fevers, with an improved Method of curing them. Third Edition. Cupar 1 8 x 5, 8vo. by Francis Balfour, M. D. The Zoological Miscellany, No. 18-zz2 Dr. V. Elford Leacli. The Monthly Review from June to October, and Mr. Griffiths. Appendix to Vol. LXXVii. The European Magazine from June to October. The Editor. Annals of Philosophy. No. 31-35Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine from June to OctoMr. Alexander Tilloch. ber. i6. Systeme universel ou de l'Univers et de ses PheM. Thilorier. nomenes consideres cornme les Effets d'une Cause unique, par M. Thilorier, . vol. Paris, s 18I5, S8@ Arc hologia, or Miscellaneous Tracts relating to The Society of Antl Antiquity, published by the Society of Antiqmaries. quaries of London, Vol. XVIII. Part I. London, 1815. 40 The American Medical and Philosophical Regis. Dr. David Hosac1k. ter, or Annals of Medicine, Natural Hlistory, Agriculture, and the Arts, by David Hosack, M.D. and John W. Francis, M. D. . vols. New York, 18i4. 8? Journal des Mines. No. 217-218. Conseil des Mi.es de France. M'moire surle Cactus Opuntia. Paris, 1813. 8" M. Arsenne Thiebaut Berneaud. Coup d'fEil historique, agricole botanique, et pittoresque sur le Monte Circello. Paris, 1814. 80 Me'moire sur la Culture des Dahlies et sur leurs Usages comme Ornement des Jardins et comme Plantes economiques. Paris, i 8 I2. 8" Description de la Lembertine, Machine 'a petrir .. le Pain, snidvie de quelques Observations sur les Levains. Paris, 1813. 80 Lettre sur l'Execution juridique dQ deux Tau. reaux. Paris, 18I2. 8" Eloge historique de Ch. Sig. Sonnini de Manoncourt. Paris, i8i2z 8" Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar fdr The Royal Academy of Ar 1814. 8tockholm, 1814. 8" Sciences at StockholmRecherches sur l'Acide prussique, par M. Gay M. Gay Lussac. Lussac, Paris, I815. 80 [ 863 3 PPRESE NTS. DONORS. NViO 2 3. A General Dispensatory, or Arrangement of the Mr. S. Rootsey. Pharmacopceias of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin, by S. Rootsey, F. L. S. Bristol, 1815, IZ DVe 7. Annals of Philosophy, No. 36. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Philosophical Magazine for November, Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Monthly Review for November. Mr. Griffiths, European Magazine for November, The Editor. The Zoological Miscellany, No. 23. Dr. W. E. Leach. An Account of two successful Operations for re. Mr. J. C. Carpue. storing a lost Nose, by J. C. Carpue. Lon. don, iSI5. 40 Mernoire et Observations concernant les bons M. Valentin. Effets du Cautere actuel appliquee sur la Tete par Louis Valentin, 'a Nancy, 1815 80 Memoire sur les Fluxions de Poitrime, par Louis -w Valentin, a Nancy, 181S. 80 2 . Developpements de Geometrie, avec des ApplicaMr. Chl Dupin. tions a la Stabilete de Vaisseaux aux Deblais et Remblais au Defilement 'a l'Optique, &c. par Ch. DuLpin. Paris, 1813. 4 Tableau de 1'Architecture navale militaire aux dix-huitieme et dix-neuvieme Siecles, Analyse de la prenmiere Partie par Ch. Dupin. Paris. 40 Du Retablissement de l'Aade'mie de Marine, par Ch. Dupin. Paris, x8;:. 8o Tablas mineralogicas dispuestas segun los DescuDon Andres M. del Rio. brimientos nmas recientes, e illustradas con Notas por D. L. G, Karsten, traducida al Castellano para el Uso del Real Seminario de Mineria, por -D. Andres Manuel del Rio, impressas en Mexico, 1804. fo1. A Treatise on consumptive Diseases, by Thomas Dr. Thomas Young. Young, M. D. F.R. and L. S. London, x Six . 8o T8x6. Jan. xx. Connoissa'nce des Tems pour l'An iSiS. Paris, Le Bureau des Longix 815. So tudes de France. Anatomic pathologique des Organes les plus imM. Guerbois. portants du Corps humain, traduit de l'Angiais de M. Baillie, et enrichie de Notes par M. Guerbois. Paris, 18I5. 80 Medico Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. V. by Medical and Chirurgical the Medical and Chirurgical Society of LonSociety. don, London, i8is. 80 Annals of Philosophy, No. 57. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Philosophical Magazine for December. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review tor December. Mr. G. E. Griffths. The Zoological Miscellany, No. 24.. Dr. W. E. Leach. The European Magazine for December. The Editor. zs. Meteorological Journal kept on board the Ma. Marine Society rine Society's Ship at Deptford, for the Years 18i4 and 1815. L 364-3 PRESENTS. DONOR S Improved Agriculture, and the Suppression of Mr. F. Vanderstrte, t. Smuggling, Property Tax, and Poor's Rates, &c. &c. &c., by F. Vanderstraten. London, x8i6. go A Treatise on the mineral Waters of Gilsiand, Dr. W r. R. Clalnln by W. Clanny, M. D. Sunderland, x8X6. go, Feb I. Annals of Philosophy, No. 38. Dr. Thomas Thomso-n Philosoplhical Magazine for January. Mr. Alexander Tilloch." The European Magazine for January. The Editor. S. The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix Mr. George Edward to Vol. LXXVIII. Griffiths. i . Medical Transactions, Vol. V. London, iiSg, The Royal College of' 80 Physicians. Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. I. Horticultural Society of London, i8xz, 4to. and Vol. It. Part i andz. London. Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical The Literary and PhiloSociety of New York, Vol, L .New York, sophical Society of IS s. 40 New York. Histoire generate des Peches anciennes et moM. S. B. J. Noel. dernes, par S. B. Noel, Paris, I 8iS. 40 urther Remarks on Dr. Bradley's Theorem, Dr. T. S. Evans. for computing the Astronot ilc Refraction, by T. S. ELvan LL. D. London, i85i. s Historical Memorandum respecting Experiments intended to Ascertain the calorific Powers of the differ. t prismatiC Rays, by T. S, Evansn LL D. London, i8xS. So 22. A Chart of the Arabian Sea and circumjacent C'aptain James HorsCoast, by Captain James Horsburgh. burgh. 2,9. A Descriptive Catalogue of the British Specimens W. T. BrandeEstq. deposited in the Geological Collection of the Royal Institution. London, i8i6. 80 Tables of the Positions or of the Latitudes and Messrs. Lawrie and Longitudes of Places, composed to accompany Whittle. the Oriental Navigator, by James Purdy. London, i8X6. 40 The Philosophical Magazin for February. Mr. A. Tilloch. Annals of Philosophy, Nov. 39. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Ma r. 4. Vetusta Monumenta, Vol. IV; Plates 36 to 5 2. The Society of Antiquae ries., A Catalogue of the printed Books and Manuscripts in the Library of the Society of Antiquaries of London, London, i8Si6. 40 The Inaugural Oration spoken 4th November, The President and Ma. i8i5, at the Ceremony of laying the first nagers of the London Stone of the London Institution,' by Charles Institution. Butler, Esq. London, i8i6. 8S 14. The Transactions of the Linnean Society of The Linnean Society. London, Vol. XI. Part z. London, 1815. 40 Apr. 4. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. i. Mr. John Murray. Annals of Philosophy, No. 40. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Mogazine for March. Mr. A. Tilloch. j a PRESENTS. DONORS. The tonthly Review for March. 'ir. Griffiths. The European Magazine for March. The Editor. A Chinese Poem inscribed on Porcelain, in the Rev. Stephen W\eston. 3 ci year of the Cycle, A. D. 1776, with a dou. bec Traiislation antd Notes, by S. Weston, F. R S. and F. L. S. London, i8x6, 120 25. Journal des VMiies, No. i6i, i68, 214. Ecole des Mines. Essays, Relhgious anci Moral. London, i8iz, Isaac Hawkins Brown, I20 Esq The Priinciples of Fluxions, by the Rev. William Rev. William Dealtry. Dealtry. London, i i6. 8 The First Centenary of a Series of concise and Henry Goodwyn, Esq usefil "fables of all the. complete decimal Quotients wi-ich can arise from dividing a Unit or any whole Number less than, each Divisor by all Integers from I to 1024. Des Beautes poetiques de toutes les Languies The Abbe Scoppa. consideres sous le Rapport de l'Accent et du Rythme, par l'Abbe Ant. Scoppa. Paris, i 8 G 6 80 Plants of the Coast of Coromandel, Vol. I11L The Comnmitiei of No. IT. fol. Warehouses of the East Ifdia Company. Memoires di la Classe des Sciences mathema ' riques et physiques de 1"Institut 1I-perial d France for i8o, i8ii, and Part i, for 182. Paris. 41 Memoires de IlInstitut Royal de Frnce, Classe The Royal Institute of d'His toire et de Litterature ancienn e, Toine > France. I. and XI. Parh, i8i5. 40 Memoires presentes 'a P] istitut des Sciences, Let. tres, et Arts par divers Savans, et lus dans ses Assemblees, Sciences, Mathematiques, et Physiques, TIcme IX. Paris, i8It. 40 r May 2. Annals of Piiiosophy, No. 41. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The European Magazine for April. rhe Editor. The Monthly Review for April. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. The Philosophical Magazine for April. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. 9. The Principles of Population an-d Production, by Johb 1Weyland, Esq. John Weyland, Jun. Esq. London, i8i6. 8? I6. Catalogue raisonne' des Diat-fants dans le CabiSir Abraham Hutme, net de Sir Abraham H-ume, Bart. par M. Le Bart. Co te de BournIO. Londres, 18i5. 30Annals of Pilosophy, No. 42. Dr. Thonmas Thomson. June 13. Journal des Mines, No. 2i9 and 220. Ecole des Mines. De l'Educatkon physique de l'1-Iomme par M. Mr. Friedlander. Friedlan der, D. M. Paris, i Si S. 80 Von der Naturund den Eigenschaften des Lichtes M. Placidus Heinrich. von Placidus Heiinrich, St. Petersburgh, i8o8. 40 Die Phosphorescenz der Korper oder die im Dunkeln bemernkbaren Lichtphanomene der anorganischen Natur, von Placidus Heinrieh. Nurnberg, 18 I5. 40 C 366 ) PRESENTS, DONORS.. Monumentumn Keplero dedicatum. Ratisbonm die M. Placidus Heinrich, 27 Decembris, Anne o8o8. fol. Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and American Academy of Sciences, Vol 1111. Part 2. Sciences. Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. The Horticultural SoI. Part 3 and 4. ciety. Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Dr. Robertson, by the Observatory at Oxford, from May the ist. direction of the Trusi8xS, to May the ist. i8i6. MS. tees of Dr. Radcliffe. An Atmospherical Register for indicating Storms James Horsburgh, Esq. at Sea. An Analysis of the Mineral Waters of Tunbridge Dr. Charles Scudamore. Wells, by Charles Scudamore, M. D. Annals of Philosophy, No. 4z. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine for May, Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The European Magazine for May. The Editor, The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Mr. G. E. Griffiths. Vol. LXXIX. July +o Legons de Mechanique analytique, Tome 11. M. Prony. par M. Prony. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. z. Mr. Murray. Annals of Philosophy, No. 43. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Philosophical Magazine for June. Mr. Alexander Tilloch Monthly Review for June. Mr. G. E. Griffiths. European Magazine for June. The Editor. An Engraving of fossil Bones from Cephalonia. Count Valsamachi. An Address on Zoology and Botany, by C. S. C. S. Rafinesque, Esq, Rafinesque. July I i, Journal des Mines, No. zz5-z28. Ecole des Mines, I N D E X TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR i816i A beige Alburnumn of trees, some observations on it, 292 B BIABBAGE, CA. Esq. An essay towards the calculus of Rinctionls,' _ _ 179 Bendego, the wonderfil1 rapidity of the browth of plants in the neighbourhood of that river, 277 _______beautiful organic remains of fishes and vegetables found to the northward of it, _ 27 7 Binomial theorem, a new demonstration of it, 331 BREWSTER, DAVID, LL.D. On new properties of heat, as exhibited in its propagation along plates of glass, _ 46 on the communication of the structure of doubly refracting crystals to glass, muriate of soda, fluor spar, and other substances, by mechanical compression and dilatation, 156 ._....... __ on the structure of the crystalline lens in fishes and quadrupeds, as ascertained by its action on polarised light, 3 J I BROMHEAD, EDWARD FFRENCH, Esq. On the fluents of irrational functions, 335 C CPOQ de Cunananm, a description of a curious plant so called, growing between Monte Santo and the river Bendego, 279 INDEX. Circulating blood, experiments and observations to prove that the beneficial eflects of manv medicines are produced through the medium of it, more particularly that of the colchicum auturtmnale upon the gout, _ !257 Circulation, the different kind of substances which produce specific diseases, supposed to be first carried into the circulation, a 261 Colchicuum autumnale, a specific remedy for the gout, 257 the infusion of it can be received into the circuilation without producing any permanent mischief, 262 its beneficial effects upon gout produced through the medium of the circulation, 262 a description of a case where the vinous infusion of it was conveyed into the circulation of a dog by the jugular vein, 260 a description of another case where 160 drops of an infusion of it were introduced into the circular tion of a dog, 263 Crystals, doubly refracti;g, on the comrmunication of their structure to glass, muriate of soda, fluor spar, and other substances, by mechanical compression and dilatation, 156 Oystalline lens, on the structure of it in fishes and quadrapeds, as ascertained by its action on polarised light, 311 CuPint, (while ants), a description of numerous nests of them in Brasil, 278 D DAVY, SIR HuMPHRY, LL.D. On the fire-damp of coal mines, and on methods of lighting the mines so as to prevent its explosion, -_an account of an invention for givinrlight in explosive mixtures of fire-damp in coal mines, by consuming the fire-da mp, 23 farther experiments on the combustion of explosive mixtures confined by wire-gauze, with some observations on flame, 115 Diamond, on that employed in cutting glass, 265 ....a distinction to be made between its powers of scratching and cutting, N 26 those which are natural, and distinctly crystallized (termed sparks) preferred for the use -of the glazier, 265 INDEX page D:iamnod, cutting, requires to be moved in a particular direction of one of its edges, 266 the singular durability of its edge accounted for V 269 E Eau melicinale of Husson, a specific remedy for the gout, 257 A d -a description of its effects in a case of gout, 260 Ecliineis renora, a description of the surface of that portion of its head, by which the animal attaches itself to the shark, or the bottom of ships, 151 Eft, this animal does not belong to the tribe of lizards, but is a nearer approach to that of frogs, 302 Equations, functional, on those of the second and higher orders involving two or more variables, _ 197 -----------new methods of solving those of the first order, and also differential equations} , 229 Explosive nixtures, farther experiments on their combustion when confin ed by wire-gauze, with some observations on flame, _ l 115 F Feet, on those of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on in opposition to gravity, 149 farther observations on those of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on against gravity, 322 Fire-danf, on that which is produced in coal rfines, and on the methods of Iiighting the mines so as to prevent its explosion, _ 1 the great sources of it in mines are blowers, or fissures in the broklet strata, 4 several specielens of it analysed in the laboratory of the Royal Institution, 5 the same substance as the inflammable gas of mnarses, 6 experiments on, its combustibility and explosive nature, ) 6 the degree of heat required to explode it, 7 differs in respect of conmbustibility from the other common inflammable gases, 7 an endeavour to ascertain the degree of expansion of mixtures of firedamp and air during their explosion, S MDCCCXVI. 3 B INDEX. IagEe Fire-damp, explosions of it will riot pass through very fine wire sieves or vire-gauze, description of a lamp so constructed as to prevent the explosion of it, 10 experiments on the burning of' a flame in atmospheres containincg it, 11 tto prevent explosions of it in coal mines, it is only necessary to use air-tight lanterns, 12 ---breathing an atmosphere containinrr a certain mix. ture of fire-damnp near or even at the explosive point is not attended withany had consequence, 19 -after an explosion ofit, miners are sometimes found alive ; and the reason of this explained, Il '19 an account of an invention for ,ivi tjff lighJt in explosive r-nxtures of fire-damp in coal mines bhr consturningi the fire-damp), Flame of comibuslible bodies, the nature of it considered, 1 6 Fossil renzains of an aimnia, some farther account of those of whiclh a dJesciription was ilven to the Society in 1 8 1 .4, 31 Frin'll'S, (on those produced by rectanpu lar plates, 101 on those produiced by square pieces ol glass, 103S on those prodticed by cylindrical pieces of giass, 103 Functions, an essay towards their calculus, 17 9 the doctrine of them, applicable to every part of m1athematical enquiry, 256 Functions) exponential, (in their developement; together with several new theorems relating to finite differences, 25 irrational, on their fluents. 335 G Glass, the sapphire, ruby, and some other substances have the power of cutting it for a short time with a clean fissure, 668 Gout, an appendix to a paper onl the effects of the colchicum autumnale on that disease, -262 H HATCLIETT, CHARLES, EsQ. Some commnunications of his on the yelk of eggs, 0 6o Heat, on new prop -ties of it, as exhiibited in 'its ptopagationi along plates of glass, 46 on the transient efccts exhibited duringy its propagaINDEX. * ~~~~Page tion along plates of glass, or during its communication from glass to surroundinga bodies, 4 7 on the permanent efects produced] upon glass by the communication of it to surrounding bodies, 78 Hepburn colliery, six specimens of fire-damp collected fromt that rine, analysed, 5 HEItSCHEL, JOHN FREDERICK WC., EsQ. On the deveioper muent of exponential functions together with several, new theorems relating to finite differences, -2 HOLLAND , H., M. D. On the manufacture of the sulphate of magnesia at Monte della Guardia, near Genoa, 294 IHOMER SIR EVERARD, BART. Some account of the feet of' those animals whose progressive motion can be carried on in, opposition to gravity, 149 -_ Esxperiments and observations to prove that the beneficial effects of many medicines are produced through the medium of the circulating blood, more particularly that of the colchicum autumnale upon the gout1 _ 257 An appendix to a paper on the effects of the colchicum autumnale on gout, 262 On the formation of fat in the intestine of the tadpole, and on the use of the yelk in the formation of the embryo in the eggs, 301 -H. -Some farther account of the fossil remains of an animal of which a description was given to the Society in 18 14, 318 Farther observations on the feet of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on against gravity, _ 322 Ice, on that found in the bottoms of rivers, 286 Iron, native, an account of the discovery of a mass of it in Brasil, 270 observations and experiments on the mass of it found in Brasil, 281 K KN I G HT, T. A. EsQ. On ice found in the bottoms of rivers, 286 on the action of detached leaves of plants, !289 3 B INDEX. KNIGHT, THOMAS, EsSQ. A new demonstration of the binofiag mial theorem, -Al L Lacerta Gecko, the foot of that animal described, 150 Lantern,firevalbe, a description of one so called, to be used in coal mines, f _ _ ! Lantern, safe, a description of one to be used in coal mines, 12 a description of another upon the same principle, but with certain modifications, M 14 Leaf stalks, a fluid possessing the power attributed to sap, proved to descend through them, 289 Leaves of Plan-s, detached, on. their action, 2 89 M MASKELYNE, DR. Demonstrations of his formulae for find. ing the longitude and latitude of a celestial object from its right ascension and declination; and for finding its right ascension and declination from its longitude and latitude, the obliquity of the ecliptic being gvifn in both cases, 1,S Monte della Guardia, near Genoa, on the maniflcture of sul. phate of magnesia at that place, 294 MOR NAY A. F. ESQ. An account of the discovery of a mass of native iron in Brasil, 270 N XNckel, a description of the means employed for detecting the presence of it in native iron, 282 0 0il the proportion of it in different ova corresponds with the greater or less degree of hardness of the bones of the loetus} 310 P Planet, direct and expeditious methods of calculating the excentric from its mean anomaly, 127 Presents a list of those made to the Royal Society fromn November 1815, to July 18 16, 355 R Refraction, double, on the communication of it to glass, nMuriate of soda, and other hard substances, 157 on the communication of it either transi.. INDEX. ently or permanently to animal jellies by gradual indura. tion, and by mechanical compression and dilatation, 2172 ROBERTSON, ABRAM, D. D. Direct and expeditious methods of calculating the excentric from the mean anomaly of a planet, 127 Demonstrations of the late D)r. Maskelyne's formulx for finding the longitude and latitude of a celestial object from its right ascension and de. clination;, and for finding its right ascension and dectination from its Jongitude and latitude, the obliquity of the ecliptic being given in both cases, 138 S ASl Inglese, the name by which the sulphate of magnesia manufactured at Monte della Guardia, is generally known in Italy, Soo Sap, its probable passage fromI the mature to the young leaves and frtilt pointed out, 292 SAPotkers on the feet ot different insccts, described, 323 Sullhate of rnanesia, on the manufacture of it at Monte della Guardiia, near Genoa, 294 T Tiadpole, on the formation of fat in thle intestine of that aninal, and on the use of tihe yelk in the formation of the embryo in the egrg, 301 the length of its intestine, in proportion to the size of the animral, exceeds that of other animals, o 305 the reason of its unusual length of intestine pointed out, 306 TODD, JOHN T., EsoQ. Some observations and experiments made on the torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1812, k 120 Torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, some observations and ex1seriments made on it, in the year 1812, 120 seldom met with to the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope, 120 Torpedo of the Gape of Good Hope, the shocks received from it not felt above the shoulder, and but seldom above the elbow-joint, . 122 ---th the action of its electrical organs perfectly voluntary, 125 INDEX. Torpedo of the Cape of Good [Uole, the frequent action of its electrical organs is injutious to the life of the aninal an intimate relaxtion hetween its nervous system an~d electrical organs i'nferred, 126 W. WOLLASTON, WILLIAM HYDE, M. D. OL1 the cutting diamond, -5 observations and experiments on the mass of native iron found in Brasil, 28 1 From tbe Press of W. B UL LVIE11 & Co. Cwlevcland-row, St. Yames's, London. 