[523] LXVII. An Account of the extraordinary Heat of the Weather in July 1757, and of the Effects of it. In a Letter from John Huxham, M. D. F. R. S. to Wm. Watson, M. D. F. R. S. I Find by your letter, that the heat at London was not so great in the beginning of July 1757, as at Plymouth by two or three degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer. We had again, after much rain at the close of the month, and in the beginning of August, excessive heat; viz. on the 8th, 9th, and 10th of August; which mounted the mercury in that thermometer to 85; nay, on the 9th, to near 86. I never before remember the mercury in that thermometer to exceed 84; and that is even here a very extraordinary degree of heat. Read Feb. 2, 1758. The consequences of this extremely hot season were haemorrhages from several parts of the body; the nose especially in men and children, and the uterus in women. Sudden and violent pains of the head, and vertigo, profuse sweats, great debility and oppression of the spirits, affected many. There were putrid fevers in great abundance; and a vast quantity of fluxes of the belly both bilious and bloody, with which the fevers also were commonly attended. These fevers were always ushered in by severe pains of the head, back, and stomach; vomitings of green and sometimes of black bile, with vast oppression of the praecordia, continual anxiety, and X x x 2 want [524] want of sleep. These were soon succeeded by tremores tendinum, subsultus, delirium, or stupor. The pulse was commonly very quick, but seldom tense or strong; was sometimes heavy and undose. The blood oftentimes florid, but loose; sometimes livid, very rarely sizy: in some however, at the very attack, it was pretty dense and florid. The tongue was generally foul, brown, and sometimes blackish; and towards the crisis often dry. The urine was commonly high coloured, and in small quantity; frequently turbid, and towards the end deposed a great deal of lateritious sediment. A vast number were seized with this fever, during, and soon after, the excessive heats; tho' but few died in proportion. Long and great heats always very much exalt the acrimony of the bilious humours; of which we had this summer abundant instances. Bleeding early was generally beneficial; profuse, always hurtful, especially near the state of the fever. LXVIII. 