Microscopical Observations of the Structure of Teeth and other Bones: Made and Communicated, in a Letter by Mr. Anthony Leeuwenhoeck. I Have some time since applyed a Glass, (esteemed by several Gentlemen, who had try'd it, a very good one) to observe the Structure of the Teeth, and other Bones. Which both to them and my self also, then seemed to consist of Globules. But since then, having drawn out one of my Teeth, and for further Observation, applyed better Glasses than the former; the same Gentlemen, with my self, agreed, from what we plainly saw, That the whole Tooth was made up of very small strait and transparent Pipes. Six or seven hundred of these Pipes put together, I judg exceed not the thickness of one Hair of a Mans Beard. In the Teeth of a Cow, the same Pipes appear somewhat bigger, and in those of a Haddock somewhat less. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 1. A. B. C. D. E. is a Square B p ece of a Bone, whereto, although you apply a good MicroA C scope, yet at the end A. B. C. it will seem as if composed of Globules. Nor will the Pipes distinctly apD pear on the sides A. C. D. E. by reason E of the thickness of the Bone, and thereby the trajection of less light. Fig. 2. Is a flat piece of a Bone, in which the aforesaid Pipes may be seen. I have also observed part of the ~ in Bone of a Calf six or eight weeks old. In which the said Pipes are less strait than in a Tooth. And sometimes there ~ to be several lesser Pipes (1003) Pipes joyned together, so as to constitute one greater. Yet these Pipes were very full, which hindred my better observation of them. And I am apt to think, that there was one sort of Pipes different from the former, which are continued from the Centre of the bone, towards the circumference, as the Insertions do in the Wood of a Plant. But I doubt whether I shall be able hereafter more distinctly to discover these last said Pipes, because I cannot handle the Bone after my own pleasure. Fig. 3. Of The Grain of Jvory. THe Author of these Transactions hath often taken notice 