To the whole Book are added Five Tables of Figures. An Advertisement of the Monthly continuation of the Mechanick Exercises; by Mr.Joseph Moxon. THe Ingenious Author having begun and continu'd his three first Months Exercises on Smither: in these three next, he gives an account of Joynery. In the first,a description of some Tools. Then of Settingthe Iron. Of the Joynter. The Strike Block. The Smoothing Plain. Rabbet Plain. The Plow.Molding Plains.Grinding and Wheting (988) ing the Edg-Tools. Of Forms. The Paring-Chissel. Skew Former. Mortess-Chissel. The Gouge. In the second; Of the Square. Of Plaining and Trying a piece of Stuff square. To frame two quarters Square one into another. The Miter Square. The Bevil. Miter-Box. The Gage. the Piercer. Gimblet. Augre. Hatchet. Of-Saws in general. Particularly of the Pit-Saw. In the last; Of the Whip-Saw. The Hand-Saw. The FrameSaw,and Tenant-Saw. The Compass-Saw. The Rule. Compasses. Glew,and Glewing. The Waving Engine. Wanscoting of Rooms. Together with an Alphabetical Table of Terms used among Joyners, and their Explanation. The Author hath also given the Figures of all their Tools. At the end of the last Mechanical Exercise (vid. Numb.6.)the Author giveth notice of a new Invention. Which I think fit likewise here to do, in his own words, as follows. THere is invented by the Right Honourable the Earl of Castlemain a new kind of Globe, called (for distinctions sake) the English Globe; being a fix'd and immoveable one, performing what the Ordinary ones do, and much more, even without their usual Appendancies, as Wooden Horizons, Brazen Meridians, Vertical Circles, Horary Circles, &c. For it composes it self to the Scite and Position of the World, without the Muriners Compass or the like Forein help; and beside,other useful and surprizing operations(relating both to the Sun and Moon, and performed by the Shade alone,) we have by it not only the constant proportion of Perpendiculars to their Shades, with several Corollaries thence arising, but also an easy new and most compendious way of describing Dials on all Planes, as well Geometrically as Mechanically, most of which may be raught any one in few hours, though never so unacquainted with the Mathematicks. To this is added on the Pedestal a Projection of all the appearing Constellations in this Horizon, with their Figures and Shapes. And besides, several new things in it differing from the common Astrolabe (tending to a clearer and quicker way of operating) the very Principles of all Steriographical Projections are laid down and Mathematically demonstrated, as is every thing else of moment throughout the whole Treatise. These Globes will be made and exposed to Sale about August next (God willing) against which time the Book for its use will also be printed, and sold by Joseph Moxon on Ludgate-Hill at the Sign of the Atlas. LONDON, Printed for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society. 1678 