XIII. A Letter from Mr. Woollcombe, Surgeon at Plymouth Dock, to Dr. Huxham, F. R. S. concerning the Case of a Locked Jaw. A Ccording to your desire, I have sent you the case of the locked jaw I lately had under my care. On Saturday June 2, in the afternoon, I was sent for to a poor woman, who an hour or two before had been taken with an 1 oppression Read March 7, 1765. [86] oppression at her breast, attended with a slight pain in her side, and at the same time complained of a soreness in her jaws, and a little difficulty in swallowing; as I then took it to be only a common cold, she had fourteen ounces of blood drawn off, and some nitrous medicines sent her. Upon visiting her the next morning, I found her relieved as to her breast and side, but her jaw was fixed, and almost closed, with a very great difficulty of swallowing. Upon a further enquiry, and short reflexions, I was soon convinced, she had, that terrible symptom, a locked jaw. As this disorder is more frequently the consequence of external injuries than from internal causes, I enquired whether she had any kind of wound, or cut; and was told, that about eight days before a rusty nail had run into the bottom of her foot; and though the wound was painful for two or three days, yet it was cured by their own applications, and had been well four days before she was taken with the above complaints. I therefore examined the foot, and found it quite whole, though upon pressing the tendons of the foot she expressed a little uneasiness. I now endeavoured to relieve this terrible malady; as the blood drawn the preceding day, was of a firm texture, and her pulse full and tense, I took away fourteen ounces, which proved sizy; and having procured some stools, gave her an anodyne of forty drops of T. Thebaica, in a very small vehicle, which she swallowed with great difficulty. I then applied a large blister to her back, but without any relief. Soon after she was seized with frequent convulsions, which for the time deprived her of her senses; and tho' in the intervals they were quite perfect, [87] perfect, and her jaw not quite so shut, but a little might be put into her mouth by a teaspoon; yet so great were the spasms, that she never after could swallowing any thing; and in this manner she continued, with short remission of the spasms, till two o'clock the next day, Monday 4th, when death put an end to her misery. I have been since told, that an hour before she died, she could open her jaw, at which she seemed to be greatly rejoiced; but it was of a short duration, the convulsions again returning, and a universal one carried her off. Give me leave to make an observation on the case, which I submit to your better judgment. That a locked jaw should often be the consequence of an external wound, is nothing new, several cases having happened that put it beyond doubt; but that symptoms should come on after a slight contused wound that had been cured for four or five days; and make such a rapid progress, as to carry off the patient, in little more than forty-eight hours after the first appearance of the symptoms, is very remarkable. We are certainly much in the dark, in regard to the nervous system; but I think it a strong presumption, that from the first impression of the nail, the nerves were so peculiarly affected, that, though the irritation was not sufficient to hinder the external wound from healing, yet it might be sufficient to dispose them to suffer those violent agitations, which ended so fatally. On the other hand, is there any reason to conclude, that it was from an inward affection of the nervous system; the wound being well, and the woman able to walk about and manage her family matters? If [88] If the above case is worthy of your mature reflexions, it will be a great satisfaction to, S I R, Your most humble servant, Tho. Woollcombe. 