97o 3 XIII. Contlnttation f a PEer on tbe Produsfion of Slgljt anK Heat from dlffierent Bodies. By li/lrv Thonas Wedg;wood F sommunicatedf by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. P. R. S. Read May lo, ot92. EXEPR IMENT I e P a iN order to discover svhat effect the ligbt of the burnilag fuel has upon incombustible bodies, I fixed itlto the elad of a tube of earthen ware X two eqtlal cylinders of silver, with polislled surfaces, half an itlch irl length, and a quarter of an itlch in l 1 * dlameter see 1 au. V * Flg. o . ) ; one of tlae cyllnders was paluted over, except tlle end witllill the tube, with a thin coat of incomt bustible black colour, to make it absorb the incidellt light; the otllern intended to refect, was left with its polished surfaceX Applying my eye to the opposite extremity of the tube (wilich it fitted exactly, so that no extraxleous light could enter), and direcsting it towards the two polished ends of the cylinders, I held the tube wRithin a red hot cruc.ible, surrounded by burlaing coaks) and continually turned it round tllat both cylinders might be equally exposed to tlle light, atld heat. Tile result uras, that the end of the blackened cylinder began to shine a considerable time before that of the polished one, and remained constantly somewhat briglater: on removing the tube + When erben ware is mentioned in this papex; the cream-coloured or queen's ware is lneant. JUr. T. \vEDOWOOD'S Experigets and Observatlons, Sc 27lt-Eroln the cruciblej still looki2zg within it, I was surprised to see the appearance reversed, tlle polished cylinder contillui2lg to shfirle fc)r sg)me time after tlle blackeraed one had ceasede Cylinders of gold, and of iron, treated ia the same manner gave the same general result; but tlae differences between the polished and the blacketled ones were not S£) remarliable ill fthese, as ill the silver. X I repeated tlnis experituent many tines, and found, by ob -servations with a stop-X^vatcla) that the blackerled silvel cylinder began to shine, at a medium, in tsvo-thirds of the time whicl the polisl:led one requirecl; and that, after -its removal from the crucible, it contilaued to slaine only tsvo-thirds of the time that the other did. For this latter obsservatioll, I was obligecl to make a little variation in the apparatus; the tube itself becoming frequetltly so hot, as to make the cylinders continue longer red thatz they othersvise nZould have done: I therefUre took them out of tlae tube, to susperld tlaetn by afine wirea atld then 11eating them in the ignitedXcrucible as equally as possible (for they canllot be made to exhibit to the eye the sameprecise tiloge of redness), I removed them itnmediately into a dark place. From this experiment it wo^uld seem, that a great part of the light emitted by tlae cyliilders was absorbed from the red hot crucible, as the blacketled olle, whicll absorbs most rays, not only became first red, lDut likew ise shone brightest. The follosvirlg experiment howevern affe3rds a different conclusiolz. EXPER I MENT I I . At1 earthen ware pipe, of a zig-zag fortn (Fig. 2.), was placed ita a crucible, tthich ssas filled up itll sand, the two open N rl 2 272 Mrf T. wEDowooDE >xperlmenzs aXd observions;ends of the p-ipe being left uncovered; one of them sras of a propex form Xr receivilzg tlae nozzle of a pair ofs hellouts, the other bent; inLto a]gles of the forln of the letter Z: on thinlast svas fa-Stened a globular vessel A, with a lateral bent pipeg to let otlt air bllt exclude a11 external lightn and with a rleck im vvllicll svasinserted a circtllar plate of glass. The crucib}eE >ith the sand and: the part of the pipe contailled itl it, vtas then heated to redness. Having fmy eye fixed in the neck of the vessel A, and observing it perfectly dark svitllill, I directect an assistant to blow witIz the bellosas-. The strearn of air, sealt through the redhot tube, laot being at all lulminous, I -fixe(l a small strip of golel into tlle orifice of tlle ttlbe at 1S, which, aftera:wo or three blasts, became faintly red; thus provillg, that the aira though not luminous, svas equal in temperature to what is usually caslled red heatj l then heated the crucible to a brig;h-;£er redlless: the stream of airy blown through the bright red hot tube, still came out psfectly dark, lbut the strip of gold, exposed to it, shone beoth sooner and brighter than beforea Hxence it app£ars7<that the greater brightness of the blackenedE cylindery in the first experiment, was owing to its being of a higher temperature; arld that it rould have been equally bright had it been ra}sedto the sam-etemperaturwe by any other means th-all tlle absorptioll of light; the metal Wing here brougllt to a fai-nt, and to a bright ignition, without the access of anyvisible light. -: But perhaps another consequence may be fairly drawn from this experiment. As the gold may be made to etnit light for any length of time9 by being supplied with heat froln the durk xs of tlle temperature of red heat, neither the gold NQR ox tbe Prodactiok f LzgZJt and He:at27Sthe air suSering any chemical thange whatever, is hdt the light emitted identical with the be-t receizoed ? This identity appears to be confirmed by the follovving observation tllat if the solar rays be made to converge upon one end of hlackenedX cylitlder of-metal the other parts will become red hot, atld enzit light; o-r, if tlle rays be corlverged upon the tube blackerzed3 and air passed through it tlle gold placecI in the dark current will yield a collstant light. The simultaneous absoieption and emission of lig;hty itl a red hot body is a subject of very difficult and abstruse investigation, as it inv-olves the nature o:f the constitllent parts of matter, and of their relative CtiOllS and arrangetnents. I*shall not attempt to offer any hypothesis for explaining the various phaenomena, as I have not b:een able to form one at all satisfictory to mysel-f, btlt shall proceecI to state a few miscellaneous experinaents and observations ^hich, though apparently unconnectedn may yet be of some assistance to tlle speculationE of some abler theorist. EXPERI-MENT I I t A quart of oil was poured into a bright tin vessel, which had a FAHRENHVIT)S therlnDm.eter fixed in its neck. The mercury standing at 4,°, the vessel was plunged into boiling watery anclthe time which elapsed before tlle mercury rose to <80° was-exac-tly noteel. I then hlackened the exterior surfice of the tin vessel, an19 repeating tlle experiment, fout;ldf the thermometer to require exactly the satnetime as beforeX to rise to the same d:egree. From the foregoing experiment it appears>? that bluk matteE M¢y r*T VV EDGWOOD'-S Experiments and C)bservationg has no particular attraction to light itl a quzessent state9 that isJ svhen combined, as heat, svith other matter. EXPERIMENT IV-e Three equal cylinders of glazed earthen Ntare snere<fixed ill the end of a tube (like the two silver otles in Fig. 1.) ; one of -them blackened; another gilt, all but the ends mJitlnin tise tube ; alld the third with its glassy surface. Thes,e, treated in the same manner as the silver cylinders, in tlle first experilment a11 became red at the same time. Without taking theln out of the tule, I removed the svhole from the fire, alld, still keepng my eye upon their en-ds, observed them a11 to :disappear to gether. To @-CC-OUllt for the simultaneous ignition of tl-oese three cylinders, it must be considered, that eartllen svare being a very slow conductor of heat the stlrfaces of a11 of them are, pt^obablys heated to redness some time before any such appearazace talres place in tlle ends svithin the tube. Now it is not utllikely} that the lolack matter, the gold, and tlle glaze, when red hot, may reflect light equally; anidX in tllat case, there should be no perceptible differellee in the time of igllition of the ends svithin tlle tube, except the little advantage gained by the blaszkeiled cone before its black coat becotnes red hot, which is partly counterbalaaced by the powdery matter (of wizich the cout consists) obstructing the transmission of heat. rrhe surfaces of the silver cylinders (experiment I.) on the cotltrary, do not become red ;any sensible time before the ends svitllin the tube, tlle metal conducting the heat rapidly through its whole mass. A11 eartherl ware cylitlders fastened ill the etld of an earthen an the Productzoz of LigZJT and Heat.27swvare tube, along with a goId otze, sald plunged into melted glass is nuch longer in heating than the gold one. This is easily explained, upon a well known principle, namely that in two bodies of unequal temperature, the colder body conducts the heat from the hotter at a rate direfctly proportionate to tlaeir diSerence of temperaturet Ntow the surface of the eartlae< vare cylinder, as tlae heat is collducted very slowly from it by the iIlterior xuassn soon beconzes very nearly of the temperature of tlle hot glass contiguolls to it. tlnhe surfice of the gold cylinder, on the colltrary, havlng its heat conducted from it much faster by the interior masss is of corlseqtlence disposed to receive tlle heat with greater rapiditJrO E XPER I MEN T Y . iqual pieces of gold, silver copper, and irollj blacliened a11: ovel , alld suspended by a uZire in a red hot crtlciblen became red in the order in wllich they are 11ere set do-wll; atld; whenmade equally red, and relnoved into the dark, they: disap peared in the same order. When just brotlght Qt Qf the fires tlley a11 lookecl equally red ; but xvhen they had cooled a littleS the iron wtas rnuch the bzrightest. Anzearthen ware cylinder, tried with l;Ile metals, disappeared lnuch3soonerthan atly of theln the il-lterior part llOt com municating its heat quick ellouigh to lieep the surfaceof the temperature of red heat: acGor2alaglyX wllen brolien, twhougl} the surEace gave no light, tlae mass was lumirlous interxlally. From a parity of reasoning, a giIt earthen ware cylinder« suspellcled in a red hot crucible along with a gold ones svotlld probably become red on the surfacq before the gold jQe y6 Mr.T.B rEDOWOOD'S E4erinzents and ObservationsEXPERIMENT v I. A tube of unglazed-earthen rare open at top, and havirlg one half of its bottom blackened on tlle outside, was placed ill a red hot srtlcible and the eye directed, as before, to the in side: the part whch-was externally blackened became always red before the other. -The experi-ment ^ras repeated wiith a metalline tube; but -lao -difference could here be perceive(l between the blackened and unblacliened half of the bottom The reason is obviouss froln the foregoirxg observationse EXPERIMENT VIt. To ascertain whetl1er metals and earthy bodies begin to shine at the salne tenlperature, I gilded, irl lines rul1ning across, a thin piece of earthen ware, of the specific gravity of ahout -2,0O0, and luted it to tlle end of a tabe, the gilt side being inwards; then, directing my eye into the tubeX I held it; within a crucibleg which was gradually lBacie red hot; but I could rlota after many trials perceisre that either the gold or the earthen ware began to shitle firste As it appears from this experimerut, that gold and earthe ware begin to shine at the same temperature; and ts no two Nbodies can we11 k more different, in all their sensible proper -ties, may it not be inferred,-that almost all bodies begin to s;hine at the same temperature ? EXPERIMENT v I II. Observing that colourless trarlsparent glass had a paler hue, hen red hot than most-other bodies, I £onceived that it migllt on the :Production Qf LiVbt and Heat.277not be luminous at so low a temperature. I therefore took a circular pitat-of glass, about 4Io of an inch thicks and having gilt one side of it, exposed the ungilt side to a stream of air passed through a red hot tube:; but did not perceive that the gold shone at all before the glass. T*his e:xperiment, howw ever, is not decisive; glass heing so slow a conductor of heats that its exterior surface naight have beell heated some time before the interior, and thus have deceived the eye. I could not meet with ally glass sufficiently thin for this purpose, nor thirlk of any other possible rnode of trial. -EXPERIMENT IX. Having often remark-ed, that the surfaces of re(l hot metals had an appearallce diierent from what t;hey prese-nt by reflected light wwhen cold, I had an idea that this peculiar appearance might be derived from a transmissic)n of the light through the superficial parts of the ignited body. To ascertain whether they acquired any degree of transparency by lueat, I fixed a circular plate of firae gold, albcout 6I0 of an inch tlaick, on the end of a tube, which was perfectly closed by it; then, having heated it to redrless, and looking down into the tube, I pressed the outer surface of the gold against single grains of gunpowder: the red light of the gold looked whiter ola every flash. To be satisfied that no light foulld admission through the sitles of the tube (which were of thick earthen ware), I covered the exterior surface of the gold plate with a thicli coat of clay luting, and again making it red hot, fired gunposn7der with it as before, hut no increase of ligllt was zNow perceptible fronz the flash; N7hich proves, that the sides of the tube were ilnpervious to the lighte When this gold MDCCXCIT O O M78 Mr. T. WEDGWOODVS Ezperiments and ObserzJationswas cold, I stucl a few grains of gunpowder upon its surEace,and looking withila tTze tube, fired them by pressing them against a hot iront but the light ofthe explosiotls was llot tllen sensible. Plates of silver, and of iron gave the same results. EXPER IMENT X . A lump of the most lum-inous rllarble and all equal lulnp of the satne marble blackened over) svere placed together UpOll a mass of iron heated jtlst under redness: the forlnel gave out rnuch lig;ht, the latter none Upon a second expostlre, t}le lump not blackened gave a faint light; the blackened cne, as before, none at all. Then wipin; offthe black and placing them togetlaer upon the-heater, I found tile one which had beetl blackened to emit as little light as the other: thus the phosphorescent property was nearly destroyed, without any visible llght leaving the body. EXPERIMENT S1. If a piece of glass, ol glazed or unglazed eartherl ware svith ally enamel, pairlting, gilding, or writing in ink upon it, be made red hot;, the coloured parts appear considerably more red than the others, andL continue longer visible. Iron wire, withill a red hot glass tube, looks much more red than the glass. Black uatter, upon a large polished lmass of fine gold, did not remain any longer red than tlle gold EXPERIMENT XIIo A bit of iron wire becozues visibly red hot when immersed in melted glass. Aii, tllerefore, is not necessary to tlle sllilling of ignitecl bodies on tbe Production qf Light and ISe:t.279EXPERI MENT XI I I. A piece of red hot metal corltitlues to shine fbr some time after its removal fironl the fire; which proves, t}zat corlstant accessions of light or heat are not necessary to the slliing vf ignited bodXes. If tlle piec b> strollgly blown uToll it installtly waws to shine; for the cold air, contitwually applied, unites with the light as Ast as it leaves the body, altd which otherwtise would harre passed l;o the eye. I. shall llOW close this paper wvith two or three miscellaneous observatiolls. Z . . Red hot bodies, though igllited by a1bite light, give out only the red . rays. Perhaps the other more rzCfrangible rays, from their greater attraction to matter, may be circulating as heat,.. whilst the red ones, having a less attraction, .yield sooner to that force which propels the light of red hot bodies. If the interlsity of tlle irltident white light be much increased, so as to raise the body to a white heat, the more rSefrangible rays then come out with the others, constituting together a white light. * The flash of a graill of gunpowder is a purewbite light: but if the explosion i made within a thin, ullglazed) earthen ware tube, close. at both ends, all the light that pervadesthe sides of the tube is red: the other rays must therefbrej remain united with the matter of the tube} whilst the less attractive red ones are transmitted. . Thus also, otl looking at the SUI1 through the thin bottom of an earthen ware tea-cup, only the red rays are transmitted., so that the others must be retained by the matter of the cup. It would perhaps be worth trying, wheths a body can be made red hot by concentrated rays of other colours. * Oox e80 Mr. T.WEDGWOOD'S Experiments and ObservationsThe light produced from bodies by attrition conssts of a dotlble light; that wllich their powder wou]d give out on tlle heater under redness; and that sshich partiGles in their surfaces give out by beillg made red hot. The sudden heating of a body to redness, by a single rub or blow, is a remarkable phlomenon, and deserves to be investigated. One eiect produced upo] a body by attrition, is a compression or con densation of the parts in its surface; and it appears from general observation, that a condensation of the parts occasions a diminution of its capacity for heat. Iron may be made red hot by repeated blows of a hammer; alld I have found, that if red hot iron be forcibly struck by a hea+7y hamtrlerg with a sharp edge to concentrate theX action, the part so struck elnits a white light for a sellsible time, and is probaluly raised to a white heat: also, that my father's thertnometer clay has its capacity for heat diminished olle-third, by being burllt to 120° of his scale, and thus reduced to about one-half of its bulk; and as it-loses in weight little-more than two graitls on a pound, -the ditninution of capacity can only be attributed to its conlensation. Many other allalagous illstallces might be adduced if llecessary ;$ but t]aese will, perhaps, be cleemed sufficient tc) render it probable, that the sudden ignition of the particles by attrition proceeds from the compressioz, and consequellt climinution of the capacity for heat. I am not certain that the increase of brlghtaess in the gold plate, experiment IX. lBUSt be attributed to its transparency: it may arise from the gold beilzg sudclenly heated to a white heat by the light of the explosiorl; or the force of the explosior * See Dr. D A RWI N RS excellent paper of Frigorific Experiments on the mechanical Expansin3n of Air, &c. Phil. Transs Volj LXVIII. p. +3. on the Production of Lighle and Heat.281may condense its partsiand ditninish its capacity for heatfor light. l'here isf however, a strong analogical argument for the traspazency of the golel : evWry body whatever, vvhel] extremely tllin, is pervious to light in such quantity as to be perceptible to our eye-sight: thus gold, perhaps the lBOSt opake of all bodies, platina excepted, when beatetl into leaf gold, is so pervious to the green rays, tlaatif held close to the eye, all objects are seela through it vvMitll considerable distirlctness, appeariIlg of a deepish green hue. Now the particles of natter in tle gold pIate beirlg much separated from one another, if not more regu]arly arranged, by the lleat; and the intensity of the light iil tile explosion of the grains of gunponvder being so great; it is not improbable that some few rays may be transrnittecl tllrough the gold. After some reflection upon the curious result of experirnent I) I am inclined to thirzk, that the blackened cylinder does not begin to shine at so low a telllperature as the polished one; and, consequently, that tlle cornmencement of ignition is nots in all cases, a certain indication of a particular temperature. For, when tile two cylinders snTere removed from the ignited cru W cible (see Fig. .) the blaclrened one looked of a brighter red than the polished) and yet, in the course of cooling, disappeared in about tuo-thirds of the time that tlae polished one continued to siline, without any apparellt reasoll for its cooling at a faster rate. Should it not, therefbre, seem that it requires a greater lleat to make it shine ? I am well aware that these appearallces may be diSerently explailled; and, to determine this point I would propose tlle followting experimellt. Put larger cyliladers illtO the tube; and, having made them red hot drop tllem separately each at the 282 Mr. T*WEDGWOQD)S EXperiRleXts and Observations &c instant of its disappearing, irltoe cups of wreighed waters of the temperature of between g 1 1 arld 2 12° of FAHRENHEIT : thez as any additiotl of heat svill expand the water into steam, the loss of sveight of eacll vessel will give at1 exact measure of the heat of the cylinders at the tilme of immersione .+ f 7'' ?' //y'£--// e-AerO/ f/ -Xf B. 