An Account of some Books Extracted out of the Journal des Scavans. I. Museo Cospiano annesso a quello del famoso Ulisse Aldrovandi et donato alla sua Patria dall' Illustrissimo Signore Ferdinando Cospi Patricio di Bologna & Senatore, &c. Descrizzione di Lorenzo Legati Cremonese In fol. In Bologna. 1678. MR. Ferdinand Cospi Ma quis of Petreoli, equally illustrious for his Merit, the Employments where with he is honoured in the Court of Tuscany, and for his extraordinary Learning, which hath rais'd him to one of the highest degrees in the Academy of the Gelati in Bononia (no less famous than that of the Humorists at Rome) having with extraordinary care and expence, made a Collection of whatever he saw there that was curious and rare, and bestowed it upon his Countrey, the Senate of Bononia hath added the same to that of Aldrovandus. An ample and learned Description whereos is here made by Mr. Lorenzo Legati Philosopher, Physician, and Greek Professor in the University of Bononia He divides the Work into Five Books. The first contains a Description of whatever this Musaeum hath of rarity concerning Mummies, Beasts, Serpents, Birds and Humane Monsters, in respect as well of the inward as the outward parts: as the Child born at Bononia, in Apr. 1660. with two heads and two pair of Lungs, yet dy'd within an hour after it was born. The second Book conteins the Descriptions and other Remarks of several rarities concerning Aquatiles, as of the Flying Fish, &c, As also of Corals, Pearl, &c. The (1012) The subject of the third Book, are Works of Art. There being in this Musaeum several Volumes of different Paper, and writing. Divers Mathematick and Physical Instruments. Together with the several kinds of Weapons and other Instruments of War. Upon occasion of which latter, the Author discourses at large of the Original of War, and of every Engine and Weapon in particular made use of in an Army. There are here also divers Sepulchral Lamps of the Antients. The Fire whereof the Author of the abovesaid Journal well observes, that it was no otherwise perpetual, than that of the Vestals, which they took care to feed every day with fresh supplies of nourishment. Which is also confirmed by one Article of Maevia's Will reported in L. Maevia 44.ff. de Manumiss. Testament in these words sc. I do affranchise Saccus my Slave, and Eutychia and Irene my Servants, on condition that every one of them in their turn, from moneth to moneth, shall replenish the Lamp with Oyle that burns in my Sepulchre. The Fourth and Fifth Books are concerning the Medals and Gods of the Antients: Of which a further account is promised hereafter. II. Systema Bibliothecae Collegii Parisiensis Soc. Jesu. In 4 A Paris cher Sebastien Mabre-Cramoisis 1678. OF which Library the Author of the said Journal saith, that it conteins above two and thirty thousand Volumes. III. (1013) III. Glossarium ad Scriptores mediae & infimae Latinitatis, in quo Latina Vocabula novatae significationis explicantur; complures aevi medii Ritus & Mores, Legum, Consuetudinum Municipalium, & Jurisprudentiae recentioris formulae & obsoletae voces, utriusque Ordinis Ecclesiastici & Laici Dignitates & Officia, &c. enucleantur & illustrantur, innumer a denique Scriptorum loca Graecorum, Gal. Lat. Jtal. Hispan. German. Anglo-Sax. expenduntur, emendantur, elucidantur. In sol. 3. Vol. Autore Garolo du Fresue Domino du Caugi Regi a Cons. & Franciae apud Ambianos Questore.A Paris chez Louis Billaine rue S. Jacques devant les Mathunnis. 1678. THis Glossary of M. du Caugi, which is now compleated, for the merit of the Author, the subject treated of, and for the Brass Cuts therein, is a Work so considerable, that the Learned will not be offended with this Advertisement. For which a very great number of Authentick Writers, as well in M. SS. as in Print, were consulted. The work conteins above two thousand Observables; together with several Learned Dissertations upon divers curious and profitable Subjects. IV. Explication Novelle & Machanique des Actions Animales, ou il est traite desfonctions de l' Ame, &c. Par. M, Duncan D. en Med. In 12. a Paris chez le meme. 1678 BEcause the Knowledg concerning the Functions of the Soul, and Animal Motions, dependeth much upon that of the Construction of the Brain: This Author therefore teaches the Dissection hereof, after such a manner, as seems more natural than that of Sylvius, Bartholine, or Willis, although they have all done excellently well. In this Dissection, having laid bare the Vertebral Artery of a Living Animal, and made an Incision (1014) cision therein big enough ro receive the end of a Syringe; he then makes several Injections into it, either of Mercury, or of melted Wax mixed with Oyl of Turpentine, till the Jugular Veins are colour'd therewith: and so presently makes a Ligature upon those Veins: whereupon you shall have the pleasure to see the branching and distribution of the Carotick and Vertebral Arteries, and of the Jugular Veins; together with the Communication that is between them all. That you may distinguish, in the twinkling of an Eye, the Arteries from the Veins; he begins his Injection through the Jugular Veins, having before emptied them of the blood, after he hath made a Ligature on the Carotick Arteries. Note, that this is the whole account given by the Author of the aforesaid Journal. LONDON, Printed for John Martyn,Printer to the Royal Society. 1678. 