(117) A Continuation of the Osteographia Elephantina: Or, a Description of the Bones of an Elephant, which died near Dundee, April the 27th, 1706. By Mr. Patrick Blair. BEing come to the Internal Parts of the Head, we shall proceed as in Treatises of Osteology, by taking Notice of its Structure, two Tables, Diploe, Figure and Extent of the inner Table, ~, Eminences and Foramina; of all which in their order. As there is no Animal in proportion that is endued with a greater quantity of Brains than Man, so there is none that seems to have less than the Elephant. In the one, 'twas so order'd by the Wife Governor of all Things, that they might be sufficient for the Generation of so many Spirits, as are requisite for the Performance of the Rational and Animal Functions; and in the other, had the quantity of Brains been greater, the Principia Nervorum had been more divided; so that instead of being requisite, they had been vastly inconvenient, because the Nerves could not so well receive the Spirits dispers'd in a greater Mass, as now, when contracted within lesser bounds: And such a contrivance as this being requisite, the interposing of such a vast distance betwixt the two Tables of the Scull, as we shall come to give an Account of, is a stupendious Piece of Mechanism. Inner Parts of the Head. As we before observed, in the bottom of the Hole for the Root of the Trunk there are several Laminae (h. h.) to be seen. These Laminae, taking their Origin from hence, run backward in a Parallel, and sometimes oblique Line, to the second Table of the Scull, or that part of it which invests the Brain: And these Laminae being either horizontally, perpendicularly, or obliquely plac'd, meet with and intersect each other, forming intermediate Cavities or Cellules (c. c.) of different Magnitudes, Positions and Figures, according to the Intergerine Walls or Sides, whereof they are compos'd: So that although Dr. Moulins, and after him Tentzelius, seem to assert, that they were for the most part triangular, yet I have observ'd them quadrangular, pentagonal, hexagonal, and rectangular, and even sometimes irregular. These Cells run, as I said, from the outer Table, or External Parts of the Scull (a. a.) to the inner Table or Seat of the Brain (b. b.) and communicate with one another by pretty large Holes, either toward Tab. 3. Fig. 1. Cellules of the Head. Fig. 4. (118) toward the inner or outer Table, and sometimes two meeting together in the middle frame a third. In a word, as there is no certain Rule observ'd in their Figure, so neither is there any in their Communication. The distance they fill up between the two Tables before is 11 Inches, at the Sides 8 Inches, toward the back-part but 3 Inches, and at the Hole for the Spinal Mar~ (o) both Tables meet together; for the Brain is plac'd in the lower and back-part of the Scull (Fig. 5.) All these Cellules were empty, and only obduc'd with a thin Membrane. And here I cannot but take Notice of what Dr. Moulins observes, namely, that there are several Blood Vessels pleasantly disseminated throughout the Surface of these Cellules with different Divarications; and Tentzelius says, he observ'd several Lineaments of Vessels after the same manner. This was not to be observ'd in ours at all, nor so much as the Vestigium of a Vessel to be seen; the reason whereof, I suppose to be this: When the one was burnt in Ireland, and the other over-whelm'd with Earth in Germany, both suffering violent Deaths, could not but have vast Struglings and Wrestlings, such as Dr. Moulins says his had, and such as ~ supposes that in Germany to have had also. By these violent Motions, the Blood could not but be propell'd with a vast force from the greater Trunks to the smaller Capillaries, where it distended the Vessels, and rendred them so perceptible to the view after the Death of the Animal; whereas this we treat of, having labour'd of a languishing Distemper for sometime, as appears by the Polypus's found in the Heart and other Vessels, the Blood could not but be very languid, and scarce ~ itself to these Capillaries; So that the Sides of the Vessels being collaps'd, they were rendred imperceptible: But that which is more remarkable is, that not so much as any of the Sulci, which these Vessels might have made in the Laminae, do at all appear; and yet the Sulci were still very evident in the ~ found in Germany, with the Blood Vessels containing the dry Blood strictly glued to them, and chang'd into a yellowish Colour, and that perhaps after thousands of Years, as the same Author observes. Indeed upon viewing more narrowly the Cellules, ~ find all of their Laminae ~ with small Holes of an indefinite Number, and irregularly plac'd, through which these Vessels seem to have past from one Cellule to another: So that tho' not so observable, yet no doubt they have been dispers'd through them in this as well as ~ other ~. We (119) We come next to enquire what may be the Use of the Cellules. There have been several Opinions advanc'd about them; as 1st. That since the Elephant has been observ'd to suck up a great deal of Water by the Proboscis, that the Water perhaps is received into these Cellules, because of the Communication they seem to have with the Proboscis, and that thereby they cool their Brain in hot Countries, where they abound. 2. That since the Elephant has a very acute Sensation of Smelling, they think the Nervus Olfactorius is dispers'd (after it has pass'd the Os Ethmoides) throughout the fine Membranes that obduce the Laminae, which describe these Cellules. 3. That these Cellules being interpos'd betwixt the two Tables of the Scull, they only serve to keep the Head from being too weighty. As to the first; admit the Water could be receiv'd into these Cellules, which from their Position at the Root of the Trunk, 'tis plain they cannot, there being no muscular Substance to expel these Waters, we cannot suppose this is their Use. As to the second; the Nervus Olfactorius, after it has pass'd the Ethmoides, does not at all communicate with these Laminae, but penetrates the Os Vomeris, whence the cartilaginous Septum of the Proboscis arises: So that these Cellules can be no ways assisting for that end, the Sensation of Smelling being chiefly perform'd in the Proboscis, and not by the Fibres of the Nervus Olfactorius dispers'd in these Laminae, which are quite otherwise dispos'd here, than in Men, Dogs, &c. whose Laminae Spongiosae are situated in the Root of the Nose; so that the Air must touch them before it reach the Os Cribrosum; whereas here the Laminae are so situated, that the Air touches the Nervus Olfactorius as soon as it can touch them. The third is to me more probable, and Dr. Moulins ~ of the same Thought, and that upon several Accounts; such as the Consideration of the small extent of the Seat of the Brain, to which had the rest of the Head been correspondent, it would have had no proportion to the Body; nor could the Muscles, fit for moving the Head, have sufficient space for their Insertion, nor the Proboscis for its ~ so that there was a a Necessity for interposing some distance betwixt the inner and outer ~ of the Scull. Now this distance must be fill'd up with some intermediate Substance, and had that either been carnous or osseous, whether spongious or solid, or (as some think the Sinus ~, Maxillares & Basilares in human Sculls are) Mucous; should either of these have occupy'd such vast bounds, the Head would have been rendered too Q 2 weighty. Use of the Cellules. (120) weighty. Therefore it is wisely order'd by Providence, that there shall be only thin Laminae of Bones, so dispers'd, that the outer Table of the Scull may be more strengthened for supporting the Weight of the Muscle of the Head, Lower Jaw, and Proboscis adhering thereto, that it may have a Communication with the inner Table, and that the space betwixt these Laminae may be empty; lest by any intermediate Substance, the Head had been too heavy, as is said, and the inner Table so burthen'd as to press too much upon the Brain, which might have disturbed the Aconomia Animalis. Analogous to this Structure we find in Oxen, which have the same Cellules betwixt the two Tables of their Scull, especially toward the Horns, whose Flints, as they are call'd with us, or the boney Substance, whereby that part of the Horn, which is ~ the Head, is fill'd, is likewise cellulous, lest by their Weight, together with that of the Horns, they should prove uneasy to the Head: But lest by reason of these Vacuities, which are all plac'd in the upper and fore-part of the Head of the Elephant, (for the Brian and Elevatores Capitis are ~ to depress its back-parts) it should be rendred so light, that it could not be equally pois'd or kept steady, the Teeth, both in the Upper and Lower Jaw, are rendred ~ weighty to counterballance it. We come next to consider the inner Surface of the Scull, where the Brain is lodg'd: 'tis in Figure like an Human one, but more Spherical, being from the Right to the Left 10 Inches, from before to behind 9 Inches, and from above to below at the anterior Fossa 7 Inches, betwixt the middle 5 Inches, and at the posterior, or Seat of the Cerebellum, 4 1/2 Inches. It has 4 Foffae, and 5 Eminences. The anterior Fossa (b. b) is circumscrib'd by the ~ part of the inner Table of the Scull before, and by the two anterior Eminences (c. c.) behind. Here the Brain sends sorth its greatest Production; for at the hind part this anterior Fossae is depress'd streight down near 2 Inches, where the O s Ethmoides begins, which is of a singular Figure and Structure; for from the fore-part of the Seat of the Brain in the middle, there is here, as in most Sculls, an Eminence which runs obliquely downward, till ~ begins to form the Crista a Galli (d.) so call'd in Human Subjects. This Crista Galli divides the O s Ethmoides into ~ right and left Part; 'tis pretty thick and broad at the Base, whence it arises from each side, till it begins to form a ~, which is perforated by 3 Pair of Holes; and then there arises a Inner Surface of the Scull. Tab. 3. Fig. 14. (121) a small Spina in the middle (d.) at the fore Extremity whereof, it being further extended than the Ethmoides, there is another Hole. From this Crista Galli run on each side several prominent convex Lines, some obliquely forward, o hers obliquely backward, others transversely; each of which is branch'd out twice or thrice toward the Circumference, which 'twas impossible to express very lively in so small a Figure. These Lines have some few Perforations running from their highest part, but most of them are betwixt their ~, where they are pleasantly dispers'd after some kind of order, which also we could not express in the Figure. The Os Ethmoides is not unlike a Heart, as they usually represent it, being narrower at the hind part, where the anterior Fossa runs streight down from the forepart of the Sella Turcica (u~) and broader at the fore-part of the Bone, which runs obliquely upward from it; 'tis from before to behind 3 1/2 Inches, and from the right to the left 4 Inches: Its Circumference is not altogether circular. The Speciality of this Structure gives ground to enquire into its Reason, and the acute Sensation of Smelling, wherewith, according to all Authors, this Animal is endued. In most of other Animals, neither is this anterior Production of the Brain so great, the Perforations of the Os Cri'orosum so many, nor its extent so large: But in Animals of an acute Smelling, besides the Perforations of the Os Cribrosum, there are several spongious Laminae which arise from its lower part; each whereof are endued with Tunicles, wherein are variously dispers'd several Branches of the Nervus Olfactorius; and these Laminae are set very near to one another, as it were the Teeth in a Comb, or the Lamellae in the lower Part of some Mushromes. Both the Contrivance of the Laminae and their thick disposal, are very useful for Sensation; for whereas, had~ this~ Nervus Olfactorius been still in one Trunk, the Volatile Saline Particles~ would have only acted upon such Filaments as compose the Surface; whereas the Nerve being variously dispers'd into divers Branches, and these Branches differently dispos'd into several Surfaces, 'tis capable to receive impression from as many Saline Particles, as there are different Branches and Surfaces, whereinto, these are dispos'd: Add also, that the sharp Edges of these Laminae being toward the Air, they are more capable to divide the Columnae Aeris suck'd in by the Nose, and give a greater tension to the Nervous Filaments dispers'd in them; whereby the Sensation is communicated the more lively to the Sensorium Commune; Os Ethmoides.~ ~ (122) and 'tis observable, that such Creatures as have most of these Laminae have their Smelling the more acute. Now this Structure is only to be seen in those Animals, whose Septum intermedium and two sides of the Nose consist of Bones, at least so far as their Laminae are extended; but it fares otherwise with our Elephant, whose Os Ethmoides is very thin, and has no Laminae Spongiosae adhering to its outside, nor a Bone for the Septum, or Sides to guard these Laminae, which would have been inconvenient, for then the Proboscis could not have mov'd with the same Facility, e'en from its Root, as it doth. Therefore to supply this defect, and still to continue the Smelling so acute, if not more in this than in many other Animals, 'tis provided, that the anterior Fossa should be very deep, that the Production of the Brain in it might be the greater; and lest its Surface should still be too small, there should be eminent Lines both in the Vomer and throughout the rest of the Bone, that there might still be more space for branching out the Nerve, as it proceeds from its Origin. There may also be another Reason alledg'd for these protuberances, viz. because the Brain is more pendent here than elsewhere, they may serve as so many Columns to support it, lest by its Weight it should lean too much upon the Os Cribrosum, so that the Origin of the Nervus Olfactorius being too much press'd, instead of a clear, might afford a very confus'd Idea of Smelling; and, that even within the Scull it may be so divided and dispers'd in this Animal, as it useth to be without it in others: So that the defect of the Laminae Spongios ~ without, is ~ by this diversity of Perforations and Eminences in the Os Cribrosum within Indeed in Horses there is somewhat of this Structure to be ~ The Os Cribrosum seems to be proportionally as large; its Perforations as frequent; and the Laminae Spongiosae without,both-few and thin set; by which that Creature has but an ordinary Sensation of Smelling, and only such as is convenient for the choice of its Food; because the Nervus Olfactorius has not such a space wherein to be dispers'd, as the Septum and Cartilaginous Sides of the Proboscis; which is so great, that scarce can a Particle of any odoriferous Substance escape the touching of some one or other of the Nervous Filaments: Whereas in Horses, there being but a short space betwixt the Os Cribrosum and the Nose, the additional Surfaces of the Laminae Spongiosae, and the tension of the Bone of the Nose on both sides, otherwise than in the Elephant, who has no Bone there at all, are very convenient to supply that defect; for you know (123) know the more extended a Nerve is, the greater is its Sensation, and a Bone is fitter for tension than either a Cartilage or other soft Substances are. The anterior Fossa (b. b.) is from the Right to the Left 8 Inches, and from before to the Nervus Opticus behind 4 1/2 Inches, and of depth, i. e. streight down from the Sella Turcica, or in the middle betwixt the foresaid Holes to the bottom of the Os Ethmoides on each side, 2 1/2 Inches The two middle Fossae are bounded before by the two anterior Eminences (e. e.) and behind by the two Processus Petrosi (s. s.) The Seat of the Brain is here 12 Inches Diameter (r.r.) In the Center between the two anterior Processes is the first pair of Holes (f.f.) at an Inch di stance. These run obliquely between two small Eminences, where the Glandula Pituitaria was lodg'd, call'd the Sella Turcica (u.) and these two Processes are call'd in Human Subjects Clinoides. This Pair of Nerves runs obliquely downward 6 Inches, and passes out below the Lamina on each side of the Head (s.) which frames the upper Edge of the Sinus for the Globe of the Eye, being the second Pair, call'd the Optick Nerves. These two Processes running 1/2 Inch back on each side, at the same distance afford two more Holes passing in below them, which could not be shewn in the Figure; this is call'd the Foramen lacerum, and through it pass the third Pair, or Oculorum Motorij; the 4th Pair, or Pathetici; the Opthalmic, or first Branch of the 5th Pair, and all the sixth Pair (g.g.) The third Pair of Holes is at the back of the two anterior Eminences, betwixt the first Pair and the External Part of the Seat of the Brain, 4 Inches distant from each other (h.h.) They are the largest of all those in the bottom of the Scull, except that for the Spinal Marrow, and have a peculiar Use, which is at large declared, Pages 82 and 83, when speaking of the Vessels and Nerves of the Proboscis; viz that they are for the transmission of the superior Branch of the second Division~ of the 5th Pair of Nerves, and a Branch of an Artery which proceeds from the Arteria durae Matris (k.k.) being separated from it by the boney Septum, which passes betwixt it and the Hole for the third Branch of the 5th Pair (i.i.) runs along the Crena (x.x.) and passes out with the foresaid second Branch (g.g.) The fourth Pair of Holes then is for the Egress of the third Branch of the 5th Pair (i. i.) and ~ of a Branch from the Arteria durae Matris; and the 5th Pair is for the Arteria durae Matris itself (k k.) The sixth Pair is for the Carotid Artery (l.l.) which is otherwise situated here than in Human Subjects; for in them it Anterior Fossa of the Scull. Middle Fossae. First Pair of Holes. Fig. 2. Second Pair. Fig. 14. Third Pair. Fourth Pair. Fifth Pair. Sixth Pair. ~ (124) is betwixt the Processus Petrosus, and two posterior Processus Clinoides; whereas here tis betwixt the Processus Petrosus and Center of the Base of the Scull, on each side about ~ Inches distant from each other. The seventh Pair is for the Nervus Auditorius (m. m.) being situated in the Processus Petrosus (S. S.) And here 'tis observable, that from the side of the Hole where the Carotid Artery (l. l.) passes toward the Os Petrosum, there is an Hole which runs about ~ 1/2 Inch outward, forms an Angle, and then ~ by the Sides of the Cavitas Tympani (e.) runs streight downward and penetrates the Scull (l.) This I take to be the Hole for the hard Portion of the Nervus Auditorius, which does not here as in other Animals, pass in at the Hole of the Processus Petrosus with the soft Portion; but as it proceeds from the Brain, goes along the Sides of the Carotid Artery to this Hole. This hard Portion, as I told you, was much bigger as we trac'd it running forward above the Temporal Muscle, and going to the upper Lip to be afterward dispers'd in the Proboscis. The eight Pair is for the Internal Jugular Vein, and par vagum, which passes out at the same Hole (n. n.) And the Ninth Impar, is for the Spinal Marrow; of which already. And thus we have given an Account of all the Parts of the inner Surface of the Scull. Now we come to the Consideration of Seventh Pair. Eighth Pair. A Hole for the Spinal Marrow. The Ear, whose Parts are, ~. The Meatus Auditorius, or that Duct which runs from an Orifice on each side of the Head (k) whereof formerly, to the inner Table of the Scull, terminating in the Os Petrosum (S.) being of a Cylindrical Figure (b. b.) having the Cellules arising from it on all sides (c. c. &c.) 'Tis in length from the External Orifice to the Crena for the Membrana Tympani (b.) 9 1/2 Inches, and about 1 Inch Diameter throughout the whole Extent. Its Sides are compos'd of a firm solid Bone, and little thicker than an Halfpenny. Next is observable the Crena for the Membrana Tympani, in Circumference 2 Inches 1/3: After which is to be seen the Cavitas Tympani, consisting of two Parts; the first whereof (c. c.) is 1/2 Inch deep, streight down from the foresaid Crena, endued with a great many Cellules, distinguish'd from each other by several osseous solid Laminae, irregularly dispos'd, which could not be so well represented in the Figure. These Excavations were about two or three Lines, or ~, or 1/4 Inch deep. The next Cavity (d.) is of a Surface more smooth, arises much higher than the former, and runs toward the outer Table, having several Semicircular Lines running Tab 3. Fig. 2. Fig. 13. Fig. 12. Fig. 10. across. (125) across. The first Cavity is from the Right to the Left 1 1/3 Inch, and from before to behind 1 1/4 Inch. The second Cavity ~ Inch in length, and 1/2 inch at its broadest part. The Ossicles, viz. the Malleolus (a) Incus (b) Stapes (f) are of a proportional bigness, as you see in the Figure, where they are shewn in their true Dimensions, running from the Malleolus, which touches the Membrana ~, to the Basis of the Stapes, which shuts the Foramen Ovale (c.) It has but a small Cochiea in proportion (d.) whereinto a Branch of the Soft Portion enters, and another Branch of the said Portion goes into the Cavitas Tympani, whose upper part is covered by the lower side of the Os Petrosum (b b.) I was at some Pains to file down a great part of the Os Petrosum, where ~ observ'd how the Hard Portion past outward from the Hole for the Carotid Artery, as is said, and how the Soft Portion after it had entred the Processus Petrosus (e.) did divide itself in to these two just now mention'd Portions, to the Cochlea, and Cavitas Tympani. I search'd for the Labyrinth, or Lineae Semilunares, but could find none; by which I concluded, that these Caverns in the bottom of the Cavitas Tympani did serve for the same Uses in this Animal, as the Meanders of the Labyrinth do in others; and that this second Cavity did serve sor receiving and continuing the Undulations of the Air, for the longer retaining of the Sound, as we see the cavous Apophysis Mastoides does in Sheep Cats, Dogs, &c. and the Spongious one in Men. The Foramer Ovale is but little, and the Base of the Stapes very thin and slender (h) whereby I suppose the Sensation of Hearing is rather perform'd by the Vibrations of the Air upon the Cavitas Tympani, than by any assistance it had from the Cochlca. The upper part of the epta which circumscrib'd the Caverns in the Cavitas Tympani, is thicker, and the lower part very slender; and I doubt not but they communicate with one another by several hiatus, whereby what humidity is in the bottom of the Caverns may be convey'd from each other, till it come to the Orifice of the A queduct parallel to it, and thereby discharge it into the Mouth; for the boney part of this Aqueduct descends in a streight Line, from the fore part of the bottom of this Cavitas Tympani 5 1/2 Inches flat, being from the Right to the Left about 1/4 Inch, and from before to behind 3 Lines, or 1/4 of an Inch. I am sorry I did not know the Os Petrosum would so easily separate for I might have observ'd more narrowly the Structure of the Ear before the Scull was boild; and ~ by an accidental Separation of this Fig. 13. Fig. 11. R Bone, (126) Bone, after the Head was taken out of the Caldron, that I have now come to give this Account of it. From the Head we go to the Trunk, which consists of the Spine, Ribs, and Sternum. The Spine is divided into the Vertebrae of the Neck, Back, Loins, Os Sacrum, and ~. The Vertebrae of the Neck differing from each other in several things material, I shall speak of them separately: Whereof The first ~ Atlas, has four considerable Cavities; two at the fore part (b. b.) whereby it receives the Condyles of the Scull, and two at the back-part (c. c.) whereby it receives the Base of the following Vertebra; the first two are 2 1/2 Inches from above to below, and 2 Inches from the Right to the Left. It has a large Hole in the middle, divided into its larger part (a.) 3 Inches Diameter, which is for receiving the Spinal Marrow, and Lesser, which receives the Tooth of the following (b.) Four Perforations, or two Pair of Holes at the Sides; one at its lower and fore-part (c. c.) which receives the Arteria Cervicalis, or Vertebralis from the side of the Spinal Marrow, and conveys it to a Crena (e. e.) along which it runs, till it again penetrates the same Bone (d. d.) and goes out at the back part; after which in its Progress it perforates all the transverse Processes of the rest of the Vertebrae of the Neck, as is usual in other Animals. This Crena is guarded on its outside, or at the Extremity of the tranverse Processes by a Protuberance, which runs toward the scull 1 1/2 Inch (a. a.) till it be equal to the Sides of the Hole for the Spinal Marrow. At its upper and fore-part it inclines obliquely (f.) where 'tis; Inches thick, and at its lower and back-part (e.) it has a Protuberance which is extended where it embraces the Tooth. This Vertebra is in Diameter 12 Inches (a. a.) The transver'e Processes are in breadth from above to below 2 Inches, and in length at their lower part 3 Inches. The first Vertebra of the Neck. ~. 4. Fig. 1. A. A. 1. The second Vertebra has remarkable in it, 1st A large Protuberance called the ~ (d.) which is received by an Hole in the former, and serves as an Axis upon which the Head is turn'd round. This Tooth runs forward from the Body of the Vertebra 2 Inches above, and 2 1/2 Inches below, tapering and terminating in an obtuse Point. 2. A large Protuberance arising from its upper and middle part (a. a.) (like the Processus Spinosus in others, 4 Inches from the beginning of the transverse Processes, two Inches broad at the top, terminating in two obtuse Points, with a ~ (b) larger at the back than the fore-part) in the middle. The second. A. 2. This (127) This Protuberance inclines forward toward the first ~. 3. Its Body or back part, and Base of the Tooth (f.) trans~ 4 ~ Inches, perpendicularly 4 Inches. 4. Two oblique Processes, by which 'tis articulated with those of the following, and betwixt which there are 4 Inches (h. h.) 5. Two transverse Processes (g.g.) each 2 Inches long. At its fore part on each side of the ~ (d.) are two Protuberances (e~ e) which are received by the two hind Cavities of the first Vertebra. This Vertebra is two Inches thick from before to behind, the Hole for the Spinal Marrow 2 Inches Diameter, those for the Cervical Artery (f. f.) 1/2 Inch Diameter. Between the oblique and extremity of the transverse Processes, 'tis 6 Inches. B. 2. A. 2. The third and fourth Vertebrae differ from this, 1st. In their four oblique Processes (e.e.) viz. two by which they are articu~ lated with the preceding, and two with the following, which is common to those of the Neck, Back and Loins. 2. In their Convex Body before (b.b.) and concave behind (c.c.) where they are receiv'd by, and do receive the preceding and following, which is also common to the other Vertebrae. 3. In their Eminences at the Top (betwixt the oblique Processes) at 4 1/2 Inches distance (e.e.) betwixt which there is a Depression in the third, and a small Protuberance in the midst of this Depression in the fourth. Their transverse Processes (f~f.) are 2 Inches broad at the Extremity, from which they descend obliquely 3 Inches,having a Protuberance on each side, betwixt which and the Body of the preceding Vertebra (h.h.) does ~ a Branch of the Cervical Artery, which it continues to do from betwixt all the other Ver~ of the Neck, till it comes to betwixt the Seventh of the Neck and first of the Back, where 'tis wholly spent. Betwixt the oblique Processes (e.e.) and transverse (f.f.) it is 4 Inches. The Hole for the Cervical Artery (d.d.) is here Oval. The Bodies of these Vertebrae are thinner below than the former: They are 4 Inches in Diameter, being of the same Dimensions with all the other Vertebrae of the Spine, till you come to the Os Sacrum. Those in the ~ are more flat before, and those in the Back more Protuberant. Besides those Sinus's in the inside of the fore-mention'd Protuberances in the Neck, there is likewise a Sinus betwixt the transverse Processes of each Vertebra and its Body, throughout the whole Spine, for transmission of the ~ Conjugations of Nerves from the Spinal Marrow. The third and fourth Vertebrae. A. 3. A. 4. Fig: 3. R 2 The (128) The ~ Vertebra is of the same Dimensions with the other two, and differs in nothing from them but by its Spinal Process, which from 1/2 Inch in the former arises to 1 1/2 in this, being ~ Inch broad, and thin at the ~. The ~. A. 5. The sixth Vertebra differs from all the rest in its transverse ~, which is as far forward as the rest, and sends out another ~ which runs a backward; so that from the Extremity at the fore-part to that at the back-part, 'tis 3 Inches. It ~ sends another Protuberance obliquely outward ~ 1/2 Inch (i i.) At this Process the Cervical Artery passes out from the transverse Process of the Vertebra, and only send a Twig to the The sixth. A. 6. Fig. 3. Seventh Vertebra, or last of the Neck, which ~ from all the rest, 1st. In the length of its Spinal ~, which is augmented from 3 Inches in the former to 5 in this (g.g) 2. In the smallness of the Hole for ~ Cervical Artery (d.d.) this being the last perforated ~ Process, as is said. 3. ~ a ~ on each side of its Body behind (i.i.) whereinto it ~ part of the first Rib. The ~. The Thorax is divided into the Vertebrae, Ribs, ~ ~: There are ~ Vertebrae, correspondent to so many Pair of Ribs; they differ nothing from the former, except that their Body is more Protuberant, that their Spinal Processes are augmented and dimished in their length, ~ to their Situation, and that they have a Sinus in each side~ both before and behind, for Reception of their respective Ribs: For the Weight and Dimensions of their Spinal Processes see the following Table. The Thorax. The Ribs are divided into the true (which are articulated with the Sternum) and false ones, with and without Cartilages. There are 8 ~ of true Ribs, 8 Pair false with, and 3 without Cartilages. The Cartilages here are soft, as in Human Subjects, and not boney, as in Oxen, Harts, &c. The length of the Ribs both from the one Extremity to the other, and along their inner Surface, that you may the better know how much they are bended, with their breadth at the Extremity and Weight of each Pair, shall be given in the following Table. Ribs. The Sternum consists of four Bones; they are plac'd edgewise, being two Inches thick above, and sharp below: From the forepart to the Point of the ~ ~ 'tis 25 Inches; whereof the first is 88 Inches long,and 4 1/2 Inches broad at the Articulation of the ~ Rib; the second 4 1/2 Inches long, and 3 Inches broad; the third 3 ~ Inches long, and 3 Inches broad; the 4th ~. 4 ~(129) 4 Inches long, and 2 1/2 Inches broad; the rest of the length is made out by the Cartilago ~. The Loins consist of three Vertebrae, whose Spinal Processes are but short; their transverse Processes a little longer than those in the Back; which beside their Weight, (for which see the Table) is all that is material about them. The ~brae of the Loins. The Os Sacrum consists of five Bones; they are of a flat Surface before (B) each having three Processes (viz. two oblique, and one Spinal, under which the Spinal Marrow descends) behind. They are perforated before by 4 Pair of Holes, plac'd at their Interstice~ on each side. It is 12 Inches long and 7 1/2 broad, where 'tis articulated with the Ossa innominata above, and 6 Inches broad at the lower part. See Fig. 4 and 5. Os Sacrum. Tab.4. Fig. 4. The ~ consists of twenty nine Vertebrae, whose differences are to be seen in the following Tables. From the Os Sacrum to the Eight they have five Process s, viz. two transverse, two oblique, and one Spinal, under which the Spinal Marrow descends, sending forth a Conjugation ~ Nerves from betwixt each of them. From the Eighth to the Sixteenth each has 4 Processes, viz. two longitudinal behind, betwixt which ~ remainder of the Spinal Marrow ~ descends, and two transverse: The rest have no Process at all, but are of a kind of quadrangular Figure, having a Ridge which descends before and behind, and on each side; being somewhat bigger at each end, and smaller at the middle. All the Vertebrae, as well in the Neck and Back, as Tail, had Cartilages, which run betwixt each of them; they were about 1/2 Inch thick in the Back, thinner in the Neck, and thicker proprotionably in the Tail. These Cartilages I was obliged to supply with ~ in mounting the Sceleton, as ~ be shewn. So much for the Trunk. The Vertebrae of the Tail. Because this ~ a Quadruped, we shall divide the Extremities into the fore and hind ones. We being the fore Extremities at the Scapula, which is usually divided into its Head, Neck, Spine. Processes, fore and hind Cavities, (i~e. these Parts before and behind the Spine) its concave part, which lies upon the Ribs, and its convex or outer part, and its Margin. The Head (a.) which receives the Os humeri, is oblong, (because the motion of the Humerus perform'd by this Animal, is rather Flexion and Extension, than Adduction or Abduction) wherefore the Cavity being 5 ~ Inches long, is only 3 1/2 Inches broad, and the Margin of the Bone arising from the fore and back-part (b. b.) makes it The Fore Extremities. ~. 2 In(130) 2 Inches deep; for at the sides the Margin is equal to the Cavity. At the back part there are two Processes; that which regards its convex part is 2 Inches long, rugous, thick and obtuse; that which regards the concave, runs two Inches backward, where it forms an obtuse Angle, whence it ascends 3 Inches to the Neck: This has a sharper Edge than the former, being somewhat incurvated ~ these two Processes is a rugous Sinus two Inches broad, ascending from the Cavity of the Head 3 Inches to the Neck, and rising somewhat in the middle of its Progress. The Neck (c. c.) is flat, being more obtuse at its back-part, and where is the last nam'd Protuberance, and sharper at its fore, where is a little Protuberance toward the Spina on the convex side, being more plain on the concave. Betwixt the first of the fore nam'd Protuberances(b.) and the Spina, there is a Sinus which ascends 4 Inches (d) and from the same Protuberance (b.) to the Extremity of the Processus Coracoides (e.) is 3 1/2 Inches. This Processus Coracoides is that part of the Spina (e.) which runs toward the Neck of the Scapula, but does not, as in Men, defend the Humerus from Dislocation. `Tis very rugous and convex before, but concave at its back part, being 3 1/2 Inches broad at the Point it ascends 11 Inches, where 'tis raised 5 Inches from the Body of the Scapula (f.) it inclines a little backwards and ascends 12 Inches more, till it be lost where the Epiphysis begins (g.) being still concave at the fore, and convex at the back-part. From the Spina (f.) it sends forward a Production 8 Inches long (h.) 3 Inches broad at its upper part, two Inches about the middle where tis crooked, and 1 1/2 Inch at its lower Extremity where 'tis thin and sharp; but at its upper part thicker and rugous, concave at the inner, and convex at the outer side. This Process serves to keep the Musculi supra-spinati within their bounds, when they pull up such a vast Weight as the fore Leg. As the Spina runs up 5 Inches from this Production, 'tis rugous and thick in its edge, from thence it becomes gradually thinner till it comes to the Epiphysis. The Back and upper part of the Scapula is very thin, and sharp from the Neck (c.) 16 Inches upward to (m.) from thence it ascends 5 Inches to the place where the Spina ends, and forms a very rugous and spongious Epiphysis, thick at the upper end (l.) thence it descends obliquely two Foot (i.) whence its fore edge runs obliquely in toward the Neck 10 Inches, being sharp; thence it tends outwards and descends other 5 Inches till it comes to the Neck. All the upper part of the Scapula (131) Scapula from (m) to (l) where 'tis thickest, and from (l.) to (i.) where 'tis thinner, except towards its lower part, is covered with an <inferred>Epiphysis</inferred> (as is said) spongious and ~, which seperated by the boiling, and is a further Argument that this Animal was Young, according to their term of Life; 'tis otherwise a very thin Bone and solid, except where the Epiphises are. The Humerus is a very irregular Bone; it's Head is in Circumference 2 foot, having 2 remarkable Epiphises, one whereby 'tis articulated with the Scapula from before to behind with a convex Surface 8 Inches,and from the right to the left 4 1/2 Inches, and another on the outside rising higher and sharp about 1 1/2 Inches. Round this Epiphysis is 11 Inches, and from before to behind with a flat outside 6 1/2 Inches. Betwixt the Epiphysis, which receives the Scapula, and this Protuberance is a Sinu about 3 ~ Inches broad, and about 1 1/2 Inches ~; as it descend toward the inside it becomes deeper, and only 2 Inches broad: `Tis for lodging the external Tendon of the Biceps, analogous to a Crena for the same purpose in human Subjects. The Neck of the Humerus is in Circumference 19 Inches, flat behind for the space of 4 Inches, then forming an Angle, and running obliquely outward 3 Inches, then passing foreward below the utmost Protuberance 5 Inches, thence crossing the forenam'd Sinus it runs back, first flat, then a little convex, 7 Inches. Below this outward Protuberance there is a rugosity for the Insertion of the Flexores Cubiti 6 1/2 Inches long, and 3 1/2 Inches broad at the upper part, and thence descending gradually it terminats in a Point. At the lower part of this rugosity the Bone is 13 1/2 Inches in Circumference, having 3 Faces; one at its Back part 5 Inches broad, somewhat depress'd from the inside, then a little Proteberant, as it tends outward; a second on the outside, and 4 Inches broad; and the third on the inside, 4 ~ Inches broad, flat also. Here begins another considerable rugosity, small and oblique from the back part of the utmost Protuberance of the Humerus, and becoming very rugous at this Place, continuing 6 Inches obliquely downward, and 2 Inches broad about the middle. At the lower part of this rugosity the Bone is 18 Inches in Circumference, with its three Faces otherwise disposed; that which was before terminated in an obtuse Spina, and where it was an obtuse Spina behind, now becoming flat. On the outside begins a considerable Sinus, being the Continuation of the Sinus formerly mention'd betwixt the Epiphysis Humeri and outer Pro~ The Hume Pro. (132) Protuherance, whence in its descent the Bone became depress'd; and now the Sinus is conspicuous (3) being fram'd by an obtuse Spina, descending obliquely forward from the foresaid rugosity on the one side, and another obtuse Spina descending obliquely outward on the other. This Sinus (~) is ~ Inches broad from before to behind; thence measuring backward the Bone is flat 3 1/2 Inches; measuring from thence on the inside, the Bone having form ~ ~ Angle, is 5 1/2 Inches flat also. The Spina on the fore side,after it has descended ~ ~ Inches, the Bone becomes flat; that on the outside terminating in a considerable Protuberance, 4 1/2 Inches long~ where the Bone has only two Faces, convex before and concave behind, and 17 Inches round Behind its foresaid outward Protuberance is 7 Inches; it becomes 1 1/2 Inches depress'd in the middle, where the Sinus for receiving the Cubitus begins. From the foresaid external Protuberance it descends in a streight Line 8 Inches, and from its opposite part at the inside it descends ~ backwards 5 Inches, and here the lower Epiphysis begins, where 'tis receiv'd by the Cubitus and Radius. This Epiphysis is 1 Foot 10 ~ Inches round being ~ thiek at the outside and flat, and ~ Inches at the inside and Protuberant; betwixt which behind is a ~ inus ~ ~ Inches broad, and 2 ~ Inches deep, and before, another ~ 7 Inches broad, of the same ~ ~ ~ ~ at its lower extremity and inside, where it receives the ~, ~ ~ Inches from before to behind; of a convex Surface and 6 Inches at its outside, where 'tis receiv'd by the Radius. At its fore part the Sinus is not very considerable, but at its back part deeper and arrower for receiving the Olecranon. At the extremity of the Epi bysis, tis narrower, being only 6 Inches from the right to the left before, and 7 ~ Inches behind. And thus you have an Account of the most irregular Bone of the Body, being at it's external part ~ Inches in length, and 26 at its internal; having a large Head consisting of an Epiphysis receiv'd by the ~, a large Protuberance on the outside defending it from Dislocation, and a Sinus be~ twixt the two reaching a good way back, thence descending to its Neck, whence the Bone becomes flat (2) to about the middle, descending on the outside, flat also, with two rugosities for the Insertion of the Tendons. Betwixt this outside and back part, is a very large Sinus for the Biceps, which oblique situation (~) is an admirable contrivance for adding Strength and conciliating length to this Muscle. Now the shape of the Bone begins to be ~, (133) chang'd, sor whereas it formerly reach'd from before to behind, now it reaches from the right to the left, and its lower extremity (4) becomes broader, whereas at its upper extremity it was rounder. The Cubitus and Radius are two Bones of a singular Figure, the one lying above the other: We shall begin with the Cubitus, which is in length from the top of the O~ lecranon to its Articulation with the Bones of the Carpus (5) 28 Inches. The Olecranon (1) from the right to the left, with a Surface somewhat convex, is 9 1/2 Inches; and from before, where it is articulated with the Humerus, to its utmost point behind, in a streight line 7 Inches. This Olecranon as it descends, becomes narrower by degrees, till it forms a Spine, which runs obliquely forward 13 Inches, where 'tis contracted from the foresaid 9 1/2 Inches to 3 in breadth. Afterwards the Bone is enlarg'd on each side, till it forms a convex Surface, which is received by, and articulated with the Humerus. This Articulation is a Ginglymus, as in all other Animals; viz. the Cubitus and Radius together receive the Humerus on the outside before, which on the inside the Cubitus doth alone. Betwixt these two is a large Protuberance rising 2 1/2 Inches, which is also received by the Humerus. Measuring from the extremity of the Cubitus and Radius, which receive the Humerus, on the outside to its opposite part on the inside, including the back part of the Olecranon,it is 10 Inches. Both the Bones from the right to the left, at the articulation before, are 7 Inches. Then measuring round the Cubitus, below the Articulation, is 16 1/2 Inches. Here the Bone is flat before, from the right to the left 7 Inches; from thence obliquely backward to the forementioned Spine beneath the Olecranon is 5 Inches on the outside, and 6 1/2 on the inside. At the lower part of the foresaid Spine the Cubitus is in Circumference 11 Inches; viz. flat before 4 Inches, where it forms an Angle; thence running obliquely backward 2 Inches, forming another Angle; thence 1 1/2 Inch ob iquely backward, where 'tis a little Protuberant; and from thence obliquely inward 3 ~ Inches~ Round the lower extremity of the Cubitus, and 3 Inches above the Epiphysis, it is 12 Inches; viz. f om the Radius 2 1/2 Inches; thence obliquely outward, with another flat Surface, 3 1/2 Inches; and from thence,with a convex Surface, round the back part 6 Inches~ The Cubitus at the Epiphysis, from the Radius on the fore part to its opposite side on the back part,is 13 Inches; from the upper part of the lower Epihysis, where 'tis articulated with the external Bone of the Carpus, obliquely inS ward The Cubitus and Radius. The ~non. (134) ward is 5 Inches. This same Epiphysis, with a convex Surface behind, from the right to the eft is 5 Inches. The Radius in length,from the external and upper part of the Cubitus,on which it lies,and with which it is united,running obliquely inward,is 1 Foot 9 ~ Inches. At its upper part it sends a Production outward 3 1/2 Inches, by which, with a part of the Cubitus, it receive~ the external part of the lower Epiphysis of the Humerus: From thence the Bone is contracted at its fore part to 2 1/2 Inches; then descending 10 1/2 Inches, it becomes 2 1/2 Inches broad; thence it enlarges gradually till you come to the lower Epiphysis, where measuring from the fore part of the Cubitus to its opposite and back part, the Radius is 8 1/2 Inches; thence you descend 3 Inches, to its articulation with the internal Bone of the first rank of the Carpus. This Bone is quadrangular above, descending to about the middle it becomes more convex; from thence it is gradually enlarged, and during the whole Progress pretty free from the Cubitus, except where 'tis conjoin'd with it at its upper part: At the lower articulation, the one is only seperated from the other by a Cartilage. The lower Epiphysis of these Bones is of a very unequal surface, and though not seperated from them by boiling, yet plainly distinguish'd by their Cartilages, which are not yet Ossified. Radius. The Fore Foot (as the Hand in human Subjects) consists of the Carpus,Metacarpus,and Fingers,or rather Toes. The Carpus has 6 Bones dispos'd into 2 Ranges, differing in Figure from each other, rugous before, ~ with several Holes for transmission of Blood Vessels, and of a convex Surface behind, having several inequalities for Insertion of Tendons. The Fore Foot Carpus. The External Bone of the first Rank (1) is an irregular Bone, running forward with a convex Surface, till it meets with its Copartner, 5 ~ Inches; passing in a more direct line 3 1/2 Inches behind. It has 3 Faces: Its upper View,in the Figure,whereby it is articulated with the Cubitus,from behind to before is 2 1/2 Inches, from the right to the left 3 1/2 Inches. At the fore part it has a Prominence which is receiv'd by the Cubitus, from which the Bone declines as it runs backward, and forms a depression about the middle, rising higher at the hind part. At each side, on the right and left, it receives the Cubitus by two Superficial Sinus's~ Its Second Face, whereby it is receiv'd by the second Bone of this Rank, runs from before to behind 2 1/4 Inches. It is very narrow, and only touches it Copartner of the lower part; for betwixt this External Bone of the first Rank. Tab.4.Fig. 8. (135) this and the other is a small Cavity, whose Surface compos'd by both Bones is unequal for the Insertion of Tendons,and perforated with several Holes for immission and egress of Blood Vessels: Its lower Surface is articulated with the outer Bone of the second Rank by a Ginglymus; i. e. behind it has a Sinus for receiving that below it. About the middle it has a small Prominence which is receiv'd by the other, and both are conjoin'd by a plain Surface behind. From before to behind it is 3 Inches, and from the right to the left 4 Inches, being 1 1/2 thick. It has three Protuberances; one larger at its outside,more obtuse; one lesser below that more sharp, extended a little further to cover a part of the outer Bone of the second Rank; and a third on its inside towards its Copartner: Besides these, it has another small Face at its upper and back part, which runs 2 Inches from the right to the left, and 1/2 Inch from above to below, being also conjoin'd obliquely with the back part of the Cubitus. This Bone weighs 6 ~. The second Bone of the first Rank (2) is of the same thickneess with the former, being articulated with the Radius; it is 3 Inches from the right to the left before. At its middle it has a Sinus on each side; one towards the former, making up with it the forenam'dCavity,the other on its opposite side,where it receives the third Bone of this Rank; so that here 'tis only 2 Inches Diameter, and further back but 1 1/2 Inch: From behind to before it is 3 Inches, and behind 'tis articulated with the Radius by a Ginglymus also, for before 'tis received by a small Production of the Radius; about the middle it receives the Radius. This Bone weighs 5 ~. The Second The third Bone of this Rank (5) is only articulated with the former at the side, where 'tis receiv'd into the forenam'd Sinus, above which it is also receiv'd by the Radius. It runs 1 1/2 Inch higher than the former, and as much lower; so that it is 4 1/2 Inches from above to below, making up almost the whole inside of the Carpus. It terminates above in an obtuse point,from thence it becomes still broader,so that 'tis ~ Inches from above to below. At its lower part it rests upon the second and third Bone of the second Rank: It weighs 3 ~. The Third The first Bone of the second Rank (3) in its fore and outer side follows the same Progress with that above, being 6 Inches from behind to before, where 'tis conjoin'd with its Partner; and from before, at the Articulation with its Partner, to behind 4 Inches; from the right to the left behind, where itis broadest, 3 Inches. S 2 the The first Bone of the second Rank. (136) Its Surface behind is unequal for the reception of Tendons. It is articulated above with the first Bone of the first Rank,and with 3 Bones of the Metacarpus below, and at its inside with its Partner of the same Rank. Its articulation above is per Ginglymum, as is said; i. e. before and behind 'tis receiv'd by that above, and at the middle it receives it: It is 2 1/2 Inches thick before. It weighs 6 ~. The second (4) which is much like to it, as being received by the second above after the same manner, is 3 Inches on its convex Surface, and 2 1/2 Inches transversely at its middle. At its outside, being the inside of the Foot, it mutually receives the The second Third (6) which runs obliquely backward 2 Inches from the former: It has four Surfaces for Articulation; one where tis join'd with the third Bone of the former Rank; the second where it is join'd with the last nam'd Bone: In conjunction with the former it receives the th Bone of the Metacarpus; and at its outside the 6th. It terminates in an obtuse point behind, and has a Sinus betwixt the Articulation of the Bone of the Metacarpus and its extremity. The 2d weighs 6 ~, and this 4. The third There are Six Bones in the Metacarpus,per Ginglymum longum; viz. they are receiv'd above by theBones of the second Rank of the Carpus, and below by the Toes. They are all of much about the same Figure, but not of an equal length; somewhat flat before, and both convex behind; broader at the upper and lower extremity where they touch one another, and narrow in the middle. Bones of the Metacarpus, Tab. 2. G. 8. The first on the outside is 3 Inches long, and 4 1/2 Inches round its middle, and articulated with the external part of the outer Bone of the second Rank of the Carpus; in weight 3 ~. The second is 4 Inches long, and 5 1/2 Inches round its middle; ~ before, and more convex behind; and articulated with the middle of the foresaid Bone of the Carpus. It weighs 4 ~. The third is 5 Inches long, flat also before,and 7 Inches round its middle; articulated with the foresaid Bone of the Carpus, and occupying most of its inner Surface. It weighs 6 ~. The 4th is 5 Inches long, and 6 round its middle. This occupies the largest part of the middle Bone of the second Rank of the Carpus. It weighs 6 ~. The 5th is 4 1/2 Inches long, of the same bigness with the former; and occupies a part both of the middle and of the internal Bone of the second Rank of the Carpus; and weighs 4 ~. The (137) The sixth is 3 1/2 Inches long, and 5 1/2 Inches round its middle; and occupies the external part of the second Bone of the Carpus, and weighs 3 ~. Each of the Toes of the ForeFoot consists of two thick short Bones; whereof the first of the external ~ is 5 1/2 Inches round, and 1 4/3 Inch long; the second about 1 Inch broad, and 1/2 Inch long; weighing 2 ~. The first Bone of the second Toe is 2 Inches long, and 6 1/2 Inch round; the second is 1 3/4 Inch from the right to the left, and 1/2 Inch from above to below; weighing 3 ~. The first Bone of the third Toe is 2 Inches long, and 7 1/2 Inches round: The second Bone is divided into two in thisSubject,in figure not unlike anOxes Hoof, whether it be aLusus Naturae, or peculiar to all other Animals of this Species I know not. Weigh 4 ~. The first Bone of the fourth Toe is 2 1/2 Inches long, and 5 1/2 Inches round: The second Bone is in figure not unlike the former, but not divided; from the right to the left 2 Inches, and from above to behind 1 Inch. Weigh 4 ~. The first Bone of the fifth Toe is 2 1/2 Inches long, and 4 1/2 Inches round: Its second Bone is in figure like the former, but less, and divided. Weigh 3 ~. The first Bone of the sixth Toe is 2 Inches long, and 4 1/2 Inches round; bigger at the upper and becoming narrower at its lower extremity, wherewith a very small Bone is articulated, and weighs 1 ~ ~. The Bones of the Toes of the Fore-Foot. Tab. 2. G. ~. All these are besides two Ossa Sesamoidea, which were affix'd to the lower part of the lower extremity of each Bone of the Metacarpus; each being about 1 Inch long, 1/2 half ~ broad, Protuberant at the lower part, and concave at their upper or that side whereby they are articulated with the Metacarpus; seperated from each other by an Cartilage, which did run down in the middle of this lower Epiphysis of the Bone in the Metacarpus These Ossa Sesamoidea were very useful for supporting the Foot; for about their middle did all the four Hoofes of the Fore Foot terminate. They weigh each ~. The Ossa Se~. The Hind Extremities consist of the Ossa Innominata, the Thigh Bone, the two Bones of the Leg, and the Foot. The Ossa Innominata consisting, as in other Animals, of two large Bones, articulated behind with the Os Sacrnm on each side, and before with each other per ~, as 'tis call'd, each may be divided, as in Human Subjects, into the ~, or upper and external part, Os Pubis, or lower and fore part, and Ischion, or lower and back part: Though strictly speaking, these Bones here should only be divided into the Ilion and Pubis, there being no ~ The ~ In ~ Fig. 4. ~. (138) remarkable part about them which deserves to be pointed out by the Name of Ischion. Both these Ossa Innominata join'd together, make up the Pelvis, which in Circumference is 4 Foot 6 Inches. From the Os Sacrum above B. to the upper part of the Os Pubis below C. it is 18 Inches, and from the Right D to the Left E. 17 Inches. The Os Pubis at the Articulation is from above C. to below F. 12 Inches; betwixt the two outer and lower Extremities of the Ilion, from the Right G. to the Left H. is ~ 1/2 Foot; from the Os Sacrum above, along the Margin of the Os Ilion, down to the fore-mention'd utmost Point is 2 foot 9 1/2 Inches G. H. and from that same Point H. to the Acetabulum which receives the Femur K. 1 foot. This Acetabulum is in Circumference, round the External Edge, 18 Inches. The breadth of the Os Ilion from the External Edge H. to the side of the Pelvis E. is 13 Inches. Ronnd the Neck of the Ilion above the Acetabulum M. M. is 74 Inches. The height of the Ossa Inneminata, from the upper part of the Ilion to the Acetabulum, 22 Inches. The breadth of the Os Pubis from the Articulation with its Partner, to the outside N N. 8 Inches. The length of the Oval Hole for the Musculus Marsupialis ~. O. 5 1/2, its breadth 4, its Circumference 13 Inches. Betwixt the lower and utmost Extremities of the Os Pubis behind, R. R. 17 Inches. These Ossa Innominata are flat before, standing almost perpendicular with the two lower and utmost Extremities of the Os Ilion G. H. bending forward, having the Os Pubis ascending obliquely, convex before, where join d together, and concave behind. This ascent of the Os Pubis is a further Argument, that this is no Retrocoient Animal. The Pelvis. The Femur is 3 foot long with its upper Epiphysis (1.) in circumference 15 Inches; the Neck below it is 13 Inches; the breadth from the great Trochanter (2.) on each side 10 Inches; below this Trochanter in circumference 18 Inches; about the middle 12 Inches; round above the lower Epiphysis 16 Inches; round the lower Epiphysis itself (3.) from the Patella (4.) on the outside to its opposite part on the inside, 18 1/2 Inches. Its Diameter, where articulated with the Tibia behind, is 7 Inches; having two Protuberances, whereof the External is 2 1/2, and the Internal 3 1/2 Inches. The Internal Epiphysis, which is received by the ~, is from before to behind 7 Inches, and the External 5 1/2 Inches. The Femur is in general a long streight Bone, having a big round Head (which in this Subject is separated from its Body Femur. Tab. 2. ~. (139) Body by a Cartilage, still an Argument of the Youth of the Animal) receiv'd by the Ossa Innominata (1.) A large Trochanter on the outside, where the Bone i, broadest; from thence in its descent it becomes smaller, flat before and behind, and thicker on the inside than the outside, near to an equal bigness, till it comes to the lower Extremity, where 'tis enlarg'd into two big Epiphyses, which are receiv'd by the Tibia, with a Sinus in the middle about one Inch deep, and as much Diameter. It sends forth a large Protuberance before, which is received by the Rotula, or `Patella, a Bone of a very rugous Surface, considerably Protuberant on the outside, being from above to below 8 Inches, and from the Right to the Left 6 Inches. It is articulated with the Femur per Ginglymum, having a Cavity on each side which receives, and a Protuberance in the middle receiv'd by the Femur. Rotula The Tibia is in length, measuring behind, 22 Inches; its circumference at the upper Epiphysis 19 Inches, and at the Neck 17 Inches. Before it has a large Depression for facilitating the Motion of the Patella; of a very rugous Surface, for Insertion of the Extensores Tibiae 'Tis almost Semicircular before, and flat behind: Its circumference about the middle is 9 1/2 Inches, and at the lower Extremity, where it again meets with the Fibula, and where it receives the Astragalus, 12 Inches. Tibia. The Fibula is 21 Inches long; 5 1/2 Inches round above, where receiv'd by the Tibia; 3 Inches about the middle; and 5 Inches at the lower part, where it receives the Tibia Its Epiphysis which forms the External Ancle, or Maleolus, measuring from before to behind along its outer Surface, is 5 1/2 Inches. Fibula. The ~ of the hind Foot consist of those of the Tarsus, Me~ tatarsus, and Toes. The Tarsus consists of 6 Bones, whereof The Bones of the Hind Foo: The first is call'd Astragalus (1.) This is articulated above with the Tibia, having a Depression in the middle 3 Inches, which receives, and two Protuberances at the Sides, which are receiv'd by the Tibia, 3 1/2 Inches. It receives the Talus below with a Surface 4 Inches Diameter. On the inside it sends forth a large Protuberance; and on the outside both it and the ~ are received by the External Male lus for the space of 2 Inches. Before, 'tis receiv'd by the Os Naviculare during the space of 4 ~ Inches. It is in Weight 6 ~. ~. T. b. 4. ~9. The (140) The ~ (a.) is a very irregular Bone; it is Protuberant be~ hind from the ~ 4 ~ Inches. This Protuberance is in circumference at the Extremity 10 Inches, and at its Neck 8 In~ ches: Below it is very rugous on the inside. It sends forth a Protuberance, which is received by the Astragaelus, as in Human Subjects. It has three remarkable Surfaces; viz. one upon which the ~ rests, at its upper side; one at the fore-part, articulated with the Ossa Cunciformia; and the outside, for the ~. It weighs 1 lb. Fig. 7. The Os Naviculare is 10 1/2 Inches in Circumference, one Inch thick, concave behind (2.) where it receives the Astragalus, and convex before, with its different Surfaces (3.) viz. one whereby it is articulated with the Bone of the Toe on the inside, and one for each of the three Wedge-like Bones. It weighs 4 ~. Os Naviculare. Fig. 9. The Bones of the second Rank of the Tarsus are call'd the Three ~-like Bones, two of which are articulated at the back-part with the Os Naviculare, as is said, and the third partly with the Talus, and partly with the Os Naviculare; each of them is about 1 Inch thick: That on the inner Side (4.) is the least, being from the Right to the Left one Inch thick, in Weight ~: The middle 2 Inches (5.) in weight ~ij; and that on the outside (6.) 3 1/2 Inches, in weight ~iij. This last has two Surfaces at the fore-part, whereby 'tis articulated with the two utmost Bones of the ~. The middle Bone of the Tarsus being only receiv'd by the middle Bone of the ~. ~ Cuneiformia. The Externa Bone of the Metatarsus is very irregular: It is articulated behind with the External Os Cuneiforme, where 'tis about 2 Inches from above to below; from whence (its External Surface being very rugous) it becomes gradually smaller; being somewhat Concave below, and Protuberant above, till it terminates in a round Extremity. In Weight ~ij~. The Bones of the Metatarsus. The second is a short thick Bone, 8 Inches in Circumference, and 2 1/2 Inches long; in weight ~ij~. This receives the first Bone of the Toe, which is 4 1/2 Inches in Circumference, and 2 long; and receives the second Bone of the same Toe, being 3 in Circumference, and 1 1/2 long; greater at its upper, and smaller at its lower Extremity, to which is ~ a small Bone. These Weigh ~iij~. The middle Bone of the Metatarsus is the largest of all those belonging to the Toe, being 7 Inches round, and 5 long; ~iiij in Weight. It receives the first Bone of the Toe, which is 4 1/2 Inches round, and 2 1/2 long; to which also is join'd another small Bone to make up the Extremity: In Weight both ~iiij. The (141) The two Bones of the Metatarsus remaining are thin, broad,and irregular; the first whereof is 2 1/2 Inches broad, and 2 ~ long ~ weighing each ~i. to which also adheres a small Bone, as in the former Toe, but less. The second and last of the Metatarsus on the inside is two Inches broad, and as much long, thin like the former, having a small Protuberance adjoin'd instead of a Toe. The Bones of the 4th Toe weigh ~j~, and the 5th ~j. I once designed to have compar'd more particularly the Bones now describ'd, with those of Tentzelius and Dr. Moulins: But since both these Treatises have been already communicated to the R. S. and I doubt not are in the Hands of most of the Honourable Members thereof; and since I have already insisted longer upon these, than I suppose you expected, I shall only put you in mind in few Words, that Tentzelius tells his Friend, that in digging in a Hill near Erfurt in Germany for a fine white Sand, there were found several huge Bones, first mistaken for a Giants; but upon tryal, and the perusal of Dr. Moulins's Treatises, known to be the Bones of an Elephant: And that among the rest there were found the Head 42 Inches Diameter; two Tusks 2 1/2 Spans large, and 8 foot long; four Grinders, each 12 lb. the Humerus 4 foot 2 1/2 Spans; the Vertebrae of the Neck, each 4 Spans in Circumference, and 2 Spans high; the Ossa innominata 2 1/2 foot long; with the Head of the Femur inserted in the Acetabulum, and part of the Tibiae 22 Inches at the biggest, and ~ 7 at the smallest part: That they were obliged to dig 24 foot deep, before they could get out the Head; that the Bones lay in such a Posture, as betoken its being over-whelm'd, or having had great Struglings while a dying; viz. the Left fore Foot stretch'd forward to the side of the Head, which lay toward the North, the Right inclining backward under the Body; the Left hind Foot drawn in toward the Body, and the Right distorted here and there, out of its Natural Posture. From all which he concludes this to have been the largest Elephant that ever was seen in Europe; and that it could be brought hither by no other means than the Flood, both from the Preternatural posture of the Body, and from the different Strata of Earth lying above it, without the least sign of having been to bury it. ~ of ~ Bones with those treated of by ~. T A (142) A Table containing the particular Dimensions of the Vertebrae and Ribs, and Weight of all the Bones of the Elephant. The Bones of the Head. ~ The Vertebrae of the Tail, Upper Jaw66 Numb. ~. Length. Breadth. Lower Jaw45 Inch. Inch. 1-10-2 6 The Vertebrae of the Neck. 28 5~ Weight. Length of Spi35 nal Process. 46 4~ Numb. ~ ~. 3. Inch. 74 11 13 85 21 6 494 3~ 313 4~ 103 413 4~ 113 2~ 514 41~ -13-----2~ 614 63 14-2~ 1~ 71 5 151 16-1~ 2~ 7 10 6 171 181~ -201~ 211~ 221 2~ 23~ 2 241~ 25~ ~ -29~ ~ The Vertebrae of the Back. The Ribs. Num. Weight. Length of SpiBreadth Weight. L. of inner L. between Breadth nal Process. of Extrem. ~. Extrem. of Extre~ No. ~. ~. 3. Inch. Inch. ~. ~. 3. Feet. Inch. Feet. Inch. Inch. 1 2 4 8 2 1 13 1 5 1 4 4 2 2 2 12 3~ 12 4 9 8 3 3 2 13 4~ 1 1 2 11~ 10 4 1 5 5 2 2 2 5 1 4 2 12 3~ 8 4 6 3 2~ 6 1 2 3 11~ 3 2 3 3~ 7 15 6 11 1 5 8 3~ 2~ 8 14 10~ 2~ 4 6 10 4~ 9 14 10 3 5 10 15 9 3 11 14 4 7 12 13 9~ 2 13 4 5 1 13 9 12 4 14 ~ 10 6 ~ 1 11~ 15 6~ 1~ 9 10 16 6 2 5 5 1 9 8 17 5 5 8 7 18 2 4~ 3 2 5 4~ 19 4 3 2 1 20 8 7 16 15 6 The Vertebrae of the Loyns. 16 15 6 1-13 4 3~ Weight of Ribs 33 15 4 ~-12 7 Tail 4 2 7 ~ ~ 3-11 2 5 3 The (143) The Sceleton of the Elephant consists of the Bones of The Head divided into those of the Upper Jaw. viz. ~ ~ 3 ~ Calvaria, or upper and back part1 Frons, or upper and fore part 1 Two Maxillary Bones 2 Two Bones of the Palate 2 Two Zygomatic Bones 2 Two ~ Processes 2 Two Tusks 2 Four Grinders 4 66 Lower Jaw 1 Four Grinders 4 45 21 111 The Trunk composed of the Spine consisting of the Vertebrae of the Neck 7 7 10 ~ Back 19 20 8 7 Loyns 3 2 5 3 Os Sacrum 5 4 0 0 Tail 29 4 2 7 ~ Ribs, 19 Pairs 38 33 15 4 Sternum 4 3 00 0 105 75 11 3 ~ The Fore Extremities Scapula 2 19 08 0 0 Humerus 2 16 Cubitus and Radius 4 15 Carpus, Six on each Foot 12 3 12 Metacarpus 12 3 4 Toes 24 2 3 ~ ~ 24 6 80 60 1 The Hind Extremities Ossa Innominata,viz. Ilion 2 28 00 Pubis Femur, or Thigh Bone 2 16 Tibia and Fibula, or Leg and Spit Bone 4 13 4 Patella, or Knee Pan, 2 12 Tarsus 12 5 10 Metatarsus 12 1 06 Toes. 20 1 02~ 54 66 2 ~ Summa Totalis 260 312 14 7 1 This is the Total Sum of the weight of the Bones. T 2 I (144) I come now to the last thing I propos'd, which is the Method I us'd in mounting the Sceleton; and because Dr.Moulins's way. of nailing a Plate of Iron to the Roof of the Mouth, in which the Iron Rod that run through the Vertebrae of the Neck was fastned, would have been inconvenient, by spoiling the backpart of the Scull, obstructing its View, and making the Head look too much forward, which was the fault of his Sceleton, as represented by the Figure, I contriv'd another, which is as follows. The Method of moounting the ~. There was an Iron Rod made about the ~ of one for a Bed, as long as the Elephant, from the Forehead to the Point of the Tail, being 14 Foot, which pass'd in at the fore-part of the Scull above the Hole for the Root of the Trunk, and run back amidst the fore Cellules, passing along the lower part of the Seat of the Brain, and going out at the lower part of the Hole for the Spinal Marrow; and lest the inconveniency of its Weight (as Dr. Moulins fear'd) should happen to break the tender Laminae, there was another Rod of the same bigness, which pass'd in at the one side of the Head, where the Depression is for Insertion of the Muscles of the Lower Jaw and Proboscis, and run through the Cellules at the side, going transversely along the lower part of the Seat of the Brain below the former, and passing out at the other side; by which this Rod, from the Right to the Left, eases the Burthen of the other, in supporting the Head on both sides, as well as the other did before. And least any of these should slide out, I caus'd to be screw'd a Piece of Iron upon each Extremity of that which pass'd from the Right to the Left, and upon the fore end of that which did run from before to behind. Afterwards the second Vertebra in the middle of its Tooth, and all the other following Vertebrae were perforated in the Center of their Bodies; and to make the Head still more steady, the Base of the Scull was twice perforated on each side of the Hole for the Spinal Marrow; and a strong Wire being pass'd through these Holes, it run from the Right to the Left above the Rod, and kept it firm, lest it should have bended, and suffer'd the Head to incline too much downward by its Weight. Connexion of the Head. The joining of the Lower Jaw, which is perhaps the most ponderous Bone in any Land Animal, was next to be consder'd; therefore two Wires were pass'd in at about one Inch distant from each other, running from above to below, to that part of Connexion of the lower ~. the (145) the Base of the Scull (y) which is for Reception of the Condyles; and the same two Wires having pass'd through two Holes, made from before to behind in the Condyles themselves, both Extremities of the Wires were made to meet together at the upper and outer part of the Condyles, and so twisted and made firm. Being still suspicious that this would not be sufficient to support such a vast Weight, and fearing lest either the Base of the Scull or the Condyles might come to suffer, there was a Wire brought round the Margin of the so often mention'd great Hole in the Os Maxillae Superioris~ which being folded, was twisted several times toward the Processus Coronae in the lower Jaw (b.) where there were two Latchets, or Foldings of Wire plac'd in the inner side; the folded Wire from the Os Maxillae was brought in betwixt them, and a Pin pass'd through all three, to be taken out at pleasure. And lest these should not still be sufficient to support its Weight, there was provided in the third place a folded Wire from behind to before in the Symphysis Menti (h.) which passing in betwixt the two Ossa Palati (b.) a Pin was put across them, to be taken out at pleasure; which is such a Relief to the Condyles, that without making use of the Wires running from the Os Maxillae to the Processus Coronae, we found it sufficient to support the Weight of the Jaw; and 'tis so much the more convenient, that by pulling out this Pin, the lower Jaw can be brought back and forward, to shew the Spectators its considerable Weight. Tab. 3 ~ 3. Fig. 9. Fig 1. Being ~ to saw the Scull, in order to take out the Brains, for fastning the upper part of it, there were two Wires ~ at the back-part of that which is below the Division; into which are linked two other Wires, which reach to that part above the Division, and are there receiv'd into two foldings of Wire plac'd there on purpose. The same Contrivance is also observ'd before; so that this upper part may either be laid back, to shew the Structure and Contrivance of the Cellules, or taken altogether off, as seems good. Connexion of the upper part of the Scull. The Vertebrae being all perforated, my next Care was to have the Ribs match'd and join'd; in order to which having first suited them in Pairs, and fitted each Pair for its Vertebra, I caus'd to be perforated each of their Epiphyses twice from above to below, (once toward the fore, and once toward the back part) and the transverse Processes of the proper Vertebrae opposite to the Holes of the Ribs, after the same manner; and then perforated the Ribs at the Extremity toward the Vertebrae, and the Sinus of the The ~ of the Vertebrae and Ribs. Vertebrae (146) Vertebrae (corresponding to the Rib) in toward its Body: After which a Wire two Inches long was fastned in the Body of the Vertebra, and Extremity of the Rib, and then both were brought together; which being done, the Wires were put into their respective Holes in the transverse Processes and Ribs,and both the ends of each of the two last Wires, being brought together at the upper part and Interstice betwixt the Ribs and transverse Processes, were twisted and made firm. Thus I continued to do throughout all the Nineteen Pairs. After this I provided some Jumps, or Leather, such as Shoemakers use for the Heels of Shoes, because the Bend or Sole Leather us'd in mounting the Sceletons of other Animals, could not be so conveniently fitted as to its thickness. Having wetted and beat this Leather, it was shapen'd according to the bigness of each Vertebra, perforated in the middle, and put upon the Rod alternatively, first the Vertebra, and then the Leather, to supply the defect of the Cartilages, which were all lost in boiling, as usually happens, and was beat so close, that the oblique Processes of the Vertebrae might meet. This was continued till all the Vertebrae were upon the Rod, all along to the Os Sacrum; and because the first Vertebra is nothing concern'd with the Rod, 'twas convenient to pass a Wire betwixt the Scull and it on each side, that it might not remain loose, but be fix d to the Condyles, by twisting and making fast the Wire. Leather, inLead of Cartilages. I came next to the Ossa innominata, which had been disjoin'd in Boiling, both before or below at the Os Pubis, and above or behind at the Os Sacrum. I made two Rods of Iron to pass transversely from the one side (the one above, and the other below) through the Os Sacrum to the other. These were riveted on the back side at both ends; and then having perforated the Os Sacrum from above to below through the middle of its Body, it was also put upon the ~ for the Spine, which was a very difficult Task, because the Rod being thick was uneasy to bend, and the Situation of the Os Sacrum requir'd it to be bended precisely, betwixt the last of the Vertebrae Lumborum, and the Os Sacrum. Neither was it easy to perforate the Os Sacrum itself, being obliged to make a Drill on purpose, there being no other Bone in the Body that requir'd one so long. After this I proceeded to put on the Bones of the Tail, and their Sham Cartilages alternatively, as they followed in order, till all the Rod was fill'd, Connexion of the Ossa Innominata. on (147) on whose Extremity another Piece of Iron was screw'd, to keep all firm and secure. Afterwards a large Wire was passed from the fore to the hind part of the Sternum, whereby all its Bones were fix'd to one another; and to them were joined pieces of Bend Leather to supply the Cartilages, which had been first mangled by the Butchers, and then lost in the boiling. These I fitted to the Articulation of each Rib, whereto they were join'd; and perforating the Extremities of the Ribs twice, I past two Wires betwixt the Sham Cartilages and them, bringing the two ends together, twisting and fastening them on the inside, by which all the Thorax was mounted. And left the Ribs thus fix'd at both Extremities should be too ready to move from before to behind, and e contra, each of the Ribs was perforated above toward the Back, and below toward the Belly, for receiving of Foldings and Latchets of Wires to be fastned in them. Then I provided two big Wires, each being folded twice, the length of the Thorax; one of which being pass'd through the last Rib, its two Parts being brought together, they were twisted several times, till it was brought opposite to the Latchet in the next Rib, within which the one part was pass'd, the other continuing without, and then twisting again, till it came to the third; it was so continued throughout all the Ribs, both above and below, to keep them firm and at a due distance. And thus you have the whole ~ mounted. ~ of the ~, and mounting the Thorax. Next, I took the two Scapulae, as belonging to the upper Extremities; and lest they should be too weighty for the Ribs, if nail'd to them, as is usually done in other Sceletons, I thought fit to perforate both of them opposite to one another at their upper Margin, and to pass a good big Wire through one of the Perforations, which being folded, was twisted for the space of 20 Inches, i. e. from the Scapula on the one side, streight over the Back, passing in betwixt two of the Vertebrae, till it came to that on the other, where it was fastned. Afterward both the Scapulae were fastned, by bringing two folded Wires from the outside of each Scapula, through the first and third Rib, in whose inside they were fix'd; then was the Head of the Scapula perforated through the Margin which guards the Humerus at the fore and back-part. The ~ of the ~ pulae. The (148) The Head of the Humerus opposite to the middle of the Concave part in the Epiphysis of the Scapula, was four times perforated, twice toward the inside, and twice toward the outside; whereinto were put two folded Wires, whose Extremities were fix'd below at the foresaid inner and outer part, and into whose Foldings a large Pin pass'd from the Margin of the Scapula on the one side, to that on the other, (to be pull'd out at pleasure) for su pending of the Humerus. Connexion of the Humerus. The Cubitus and Radius were join'd with the Humerus, thus: The Cubitus was perforated twice in the back part,at the beginning of the Olecranon on each side; where two Extremities of Wires being fix'd and riveted, they were brought through the upper part of the said Olecranon, and then twisted, till they came to the Humerus, which was perforated from the back-part, where the Depression for receiving the Olecranon is, to the fore part above the Epiphysis received by the Cubitus and Radius; through which Holes made pretty large, the Wires thus twisted were pass'd, the one to the Radius on the outside, and the other to the Radius on the inside; where they were introduc'd, and brought out at the back-part of the Cubitus below the Olecranon on each side, where their Extremities were riveted 2 1/2 Inches below their Insertion: By which means the Flexion and Extension can be easily shewn, because the Wires have sufficient space to move in their Passage through the Humerus, these Holes being made bigger on purpose, as is said. The lower Epiphysis of both Cubitus and Radius having been separated by boiling, as I have formerly observ'd, I was forc'd to perforate each of them below toward the Carpus, and pass a Wire obliquely upward, whereby to secure them: And because the Radius is distinct from the Cubitus below, there was a Wire passed from the one to the other, and riveted at each outside. Cubitus ~ Radius. In joining the Bones of the Foot, I took special care to hide the Wires, so that none might appear to the Beholders. For doing whereof the Cubitus was twice perforated in the back part of the Epiphysis, about ~ Inch above the Articulation with the Bone of the Carpus on the outside, and the Radius in the inside and and back-part, after the same manner: Both which Perforations were continued through the two Bones of the first Rank of the Carpus. Afterwards the External Bone was perforated a third time; all which run from above to below, to the first, second, and third Bone of the second Rank. Which being done~ two The Fore Foot. folded (149) folded Wires were pass'd in at the four Holes of the back part of the Cubitus and Radius, where their Duplicatures were formed; and the fifth Wire put into the Hole made in the middle of the External Bone of the first Rank of the Carpus, was continued with the rest through the Bones of the second Rank to those of the Metacarpus, where they run from one Extremity to another; that is to say, the outer part of the folded Wire from the Cubitus, did run down the outside of the External Bones of the first and second Rank of the Carpus, to the External Bone of the Metacarpus, all along, till it was brought out at the Extremity of the furthest Bone of the Toe belonging thereto; and the inner part of the same Wire passing from the Cubitus through the same two Bones of the Carpus, ran down to the third Bone of the Metacarpus from the outside, from whence 'twas convey'd to the Extremity of its Toe, and there riveted. The third Wire pass'd from its entry in the middle of the External Bone of the first rank of the Carpus, to that of the second, and from thence down to the second Bone of the Metacarpus, from the outside, to the Extremty of its Toe, where it was fastned; and the folded Wire from the back-part of the Radius pass'd down at two Places through the middle Bone of the first rank of the Carpus, to that of the second rank, and from thence to the fourth and fifth Bones of the Metacarpus from the outside, and still forward to the Extremities of their Toes, where they were fix'd. This done, I caus'd to be perforated the External Bones of the Carpus twice, i.e. toward their fore and back part, as also the Metacarpus at the upper and lower Extremity; passing the Drills from the outside to the inner of each Bone, or from the Right to the Left, by which the Bones above were as well join'd with their Sides, as with those below them; so that each was kept secure in its Place, especially the Bones of the Metacarpus, which would have too readily separated from each other, and endanger'd the breaking the Wires, by which they were join'd with those above. Since the third Bone of the first rank of the Carpus lies, as it were, at the side of both Ranks, therefore I thought it convenient to pass the two Extremities of the Wire, which run from the right to the left, in the first Rank, that so it might be fastned with its Partner on the inside; and since the Internal Bone of the Metacarpus yet remain'd to be join'd, this inner Bone of the Carpus was again perforated, and a Wire brought from it to the inner Bone of the second Rank, and from U thence (150) thence to the said Bone of the Metacarpus with its Toe, where it was fastned. The upper Epiphysis of the Femur having also separated by boiling, it was requisite to perforate its Head four times, for the immission of two folded Wires, which were brought obliquely down the inner and outer side to its Neck, where their Extremities were twisted and secured. Afterward it was perforated in the middle four times more, for two other folded Wires, which were once or twice twisted, and their Extremities put through the foresaid Holes to the inner and outer part of the Neck of the Femur, as before, there to be made fast. The Acetabulum was perforated in the bottom, and these two Foldings pass'd through it; whereinto was put a Pin, at the back-part of the Ossa innominata, to be pull'd out at pleasure, and the Thigh suspended as the Humerus. Connexion of the Femur. Two folded and twisted Wires were pass'd in at the Epiphysis, on each side of the Spina, in the middle of the Tibia, and their Extremities brought out at its upper and back part, where they were riveted: Afterward the lower Epiphysis at the Femur was perforated from the right to the left, and a Pin passed from the out-side, through the Foldings of the Wires from the Tibia, to the in-side, (whereby the Flexion and Extension is most conveniently shewn,) to be taken out at pleasure. The Perone was fix'd to the Tibia at the upper part, by a Pin passing obliquely upward from the one to the other; and the Patella fastned to the forepart of the Femur, by a Pin passing directly inward from before to behind. Of the Tibia and Fibula. The lower part of the Perone forming the External Malleolus, is perforated from without to within, as is the opposite part of the Tibia forming the Internal one; likewise the Astragalus is perforated from the right to the left, corresponding to these two Holes, for the immission of a Pin, whereby the Foot is join'd to the Tibia, to be out at pleasure. The Astragalus is join'd to the Talus by a Pin, pass'd from the upper and middle part of the one, to the lower part of the other, where it is riveted. The Astragalus is thrice perforated before; into two of which Holes a folded Wire is pass'd, which goes forward through the Os Navi~ to the Bones of the Metacarpus of the second and third Toe from the inside, at whose Extremities they are fix'd. The third Wire runs from the Astragalus to the Os Naviculare, and the third Os Cunciforme, to the fourth Toe. The said Os Naviculare Of the Hind ~. is (151) is perforated on the inside for a Wire, which runs through the Bone of the Metacarpus and inner Toe. The third O s Cuneiforme is perforated for a Wire which passes through the Bone of the Metacarpus and outer Toe. The three Ossa Cuneiformia are join'd to each other by a folded Wire, which runs twice from their outside to the inside, where they are secured. Sir, By the Opportunity I have had of preparing and joining these Bones, it may be expected I should give some Account of their Structure: But as the design of preserving the Sceleton entire gave me no Liberty to go any further than their External Surface, so it cannot be expected I could dive any deeper in the Knowledge of them. Tentzelius says, Omnia isthaec Ossa porosa sunt & rimosa; and I may add, Levia too: For there is nothing about them to be seen of that Solidity and Compactness, that smoothness of Surface, and Whiteness, which is observable in other Quadrupeds of the larger size, such as Oxen, Horses, Harts, &c. or smaller, as Sheep, Dogs, Cats, &c. And I should have readily attributed this to the Youth of the Animal, had not Tentzelius from his Subject, suppos'd to be 200 Years Old, told the same. And this differs much from the Account of the Behemoth in Job, whose Bones are said to be as strong pieces of Brass, and Bars of Iron. The Laminae of the Head were thin and solid; the External Table thin and more ponderous; the Teeth exceeding solid and ponderous: So that from the computation of the Weight of the upper part, which was taken off by the Saw, as in Tab. 3. Fig. 5. and 6. which is only 6 ~. weight, I may reckon all the Head, which weighs 66 ~. beside the Teeth, not to weigh above 24 ~. at most; which well agrees with whatTentzelius says, that each of the Dentes Molares were 12 ~. weight, and that of all the 45 ~. which the Lower Jaw weighs, the rest of the Bone beside the Grinders do not exceed 12 or 16 ~. For its External Surface seems to be both porous and rimous, as is said; and at perforating the Condyles seem'd to be very spongy, as were the ~, Femur, Tibia, &c. where, after the Drill had pass'd the External Lamina, which was very thin, it would have run forward as if it had been through so much Moss. When the Epiphysis came off the Thigh Bone, it resembled very much the Epiphysis of the Femur in Man; its minute Cellules were not so big as those of an Oxe, and the Laminae which circumscrib'd them, not by much so solid. The Humerus indeed both above and below was U 2 much (152) much harder; it did heat the Drill in passing: And there may be some reason for that too; viz. that since the Progression of most Quadrupeds chiefly depends upon a more frequent motion of the Fore than Hind Limbs, it does much more here, where the Head is proportionably more heavy than in other Animals. And this perhaps is the reason too, why the Fore Limbs in this ~ are brought so far forward; for measuring in a streight Line from the Humerus above to the Carpus below, and bringing another Line directly backward at the Articulation betwixt the Humerus and Cubitus, from the perpendicular Line before to the point of the ~ behind, it is 20 Inches; which is the reason why some believe my Engraver has made the fore Limbs of the Sceleton to bend too much at the Articulation. The Bones of the Carpus are pretty solid, and by Perforation they seem only to have a little spongiosity about the middle: All the rest of the Bones of the fore Foot are spongy. The Astragalus, Os Naviculare, and Ossa Cuneiformia, are more solid; but the Talus and other Bones of the hind Foot spongious. The Spine was spongy, as is usual; the Ossa Innominata of a middle Consistence; and the Scapula very thin, but solid toward its Neck. I cannot positively determine the Cavities for the Marrow, nor quantity of it; but by comparing the Dimensions with the Weight and small quantity of Fat to be seen at the boiling, we may suppose it not to have been much in this Animal: I know not how it may be in others of this Species. I must not forget to tell you, that when I weighed the Bones, it was immediately before they were joined; so that their weight was much diminish'd, in respect of what it was when they were newly boil'd. The weight is ~. to 1 ~. and the measure, according to the English Yard, 12 Inches to a Foot, and 12 Lines to an Inch. And thus, Sir, I have finish'd these my Weak Endeavours: The Undertaking, I doubt, will seem bold to some, and rash to others, and the Performance mean. But the many Obligations you have laid upon me, and the frequent Marks of Esteem I have received in your several Letters, made me pass over all Obstacles, Reflections, and Discouragements, when to serve you and your Honourable Society was my only Design. I have rather chosen to address you in a plain and common Stile, than give the least suspicion of Disingenuity in a finer Language; especially since (153) since it is History I have written, where Matter of Fact, and not Romance, where Eloquence, is the chief Design. The Copper Plates, which at my own Charges I have caused to be engraven here, I acknowledge might have been done finer in London; but since I had the Original by me, whereby I was able from time to time to correct in the Ingraving what Errors happen'd in drawing the Figures, I rather chose to have them done by me here: And tho' the Draughts of the Engraver be course, yet I have endeavoured what in me Iay to have the Figures true and well proportion'd. Wishing all Health and Happiness to your self, Prosperity and Success to your Honourable and Famous Society. I continue, Sir, Your most humble, and From my House at most obliged Servant, Dundee, April 27. 1709. P A T R I C K B L A I R. The (154) The Explication of the Tables. T A B U L A I. Represents the stuff'd Skin of the Elephant, as it now stands in our Hall, with an Account of its particular Dimensions. Feet. Inches. A. A. The Height of the Elephant at the Fore Feet. 8 6 B. B. Its Height at the Hind Feet. 9 C. C. Its Length. 10 C. D. The Length of the Tail. 4 3 E E. The Circumference of the Belly. 14 F.F. From the top of the Head to the Point of the Proboscis. 8 G. F. The length of the Proboscis. 4 6 H. H. The distance between the Forehead and lower Jaw. 2 3 F. I. From the top of the Head to the lower Jaw. 4 6 K. K. The length of the Ear. 1 7 L. L. Its breadth. 1 5 M. The Orifice of the Meatus Auditorius. N. N. The Circumference of the fore Foot round the Hoofs. 3 101/2 a. The Fore Hoof fore-shortned. 5 b. The middle External Hoof. 5 c. The third External Hoof. 41/2 Note, That neither the Diameter of the fore Foot from before to behind, which was1 41/2 nor from the right to the left, which was1 2 can be so here. O. O. The Circumference of the fore Foot at the upper Joint. 4 3 P. P. At the Articulation with the Carpus. 2 61/2 Q. Q. The Circumference of the hind Foot round the Hoofs. 3 4 The Diameter from before to behind. From the right to the left. a. The breadth of the fore Hoof. 3 b. The breadth of the outer Hoof. 4 c. The breadth of the third Hoof. 4 R. R. The Circumference of the hind Leg. 2 2 S. Tab 1 F E A M H G H I T O E P Cura et ~ Pat= Blair, ~= Orum ~= pinx=et sculp= Z F N ~ ~ N A B C D Pat: Blair ~: Excudit R R Z 2 a b c (155) S. The Mouth. T. The Tusks broken off by the middle. U. The Eye. X. Represents the Scabs about the Belly. Y. Y. The Depressions in the Skin through the folding of the Proboscis. a. A Protuberance first occasion'd by the Ossa Innominata, when the Animal was alive and very lean, and still remaining in the Skin. b. A Protuberance in the forepart of the Thigh. c. The lower Joint of the fore Foot, where there is a Depression in the Skin. d. d. Several Wrinkles in the stuff'd Skin. T A B U L A II. Represents the Sceleton of the Elephant, as it was mounted by my Direction, and now stands in the Repository of Rarities in Dundee. A. The Scull taken in Prophile, whereby a part of the fore side is foreshortned. a. The Hole for the Root of the Trunk foreshortned. b. b. The two Ossa Palati. c. c. The Two Tusks as they proceed from the Ossa Palati. d.d. The broken off Extremities of the Tusks. e. The Grinders of the Upper Jaw. f. The fore Grinder of the Lower Jaw. g. The undulating Lines of the lower Surface of the Grinders of the Upper Jaw. h. The inner Grinder of the Lower Jaw. i. Part of the Os Malae. k. Its Articulation with the Os Zygomaticum. l. The Os Zygomaticum. m. The Orbit of the Eye. n. Its upper Protuberance. o. Its middle Protuberance where the ~ is inserted. p. Its lower Protuberance. q. A Sinus at the bottom of the Orbit. r. r. A Depression fit for lodging the Muscles of the lower Jaw and Proboscis. s. The Orifice of the Meatus Auditorius. t. t. The Articulation of the Os Calvariae with the Os Zygomaticum. u. The Processus Cononae of the lower Jaw. ~. The (156) x. The Insertion of the Musculus Masseter y. The space for the Mouth betwixt the Os Palati and lower Jaw. z. An Orifice from which the Nervus Maxillaris inferior proceeds. B. The Vertebrae of the Neck. 1. The first Vertebra. 2. The second Vertebra,or Tooth which rises higher than the rest. 3. The third Vertebra having scarce any Spinal Process. 4. The 4th, whose Spinal Process is not yet seen. 5. The 5th, with the Spinal Process beginning to appear. 6. The 6th, whose Spinal Process ascends higher, and is remarkable at its fore-part, as in Tab. 4. 7. The 7th, whose Spinal Process still ascends, and with whose back-part the first Rib is articulated. C. The Vertebrae of the Back. 1.-13. Their Processus Spinosi, which have no Protuberance at their Extremity, whereof 1-C. are the longest, and C.-13. become gra dually shorter. D The Spinal Processes of all the rest of the ~ to the Os Sacrum which are shorned by degrees. XXXXX &c. the oblique Processes of the Vertebrae. E. The Scapula. a. a. The spongious Margin of the Scapula. b. b. Its Processus Spinosus sending forward a Protuberance. c. c. Its Neck. d. d. The Epiphysis which receives the Humerus. e. e. &c. The Ribs. f. f. &c. The Ribs which appear on the opposite side. g. g. The Cartilages of the Sternum. h. h. The Bones of the Sternum. i.i.i. The three Ribs which have no Cartilages l.l.l. The Bodies of the three Vertebrae Lumborum. F. The Humerus. 1. Its upper part, spongious and rugous, for the Insertion of Tendons. 2. Its middle part more solid. 3. A large oblique Sinus for lodging the Biceps. 4. Its lower Extremity articulated with the Cubitus and Radius. G. The Cubitus and Radius. 1. The Olecranon. 2. An hallowness on the outside of the Cubitus. 3. The Radius. 4. Its lower Epiphysis, rugous, and separated from it by a Suture. 5. The lower Epiphysis of the Cubitus, separated likewise by a Suture. 6 6 6. Three Bones of the first Rank of the Carpus. 7 7 7. Tab 2 C A I B s 7 ~ a ~ 6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ u ~ g e c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ y g z c c 2 F d d ~ ~ G Cura et Impes= Pat: Blair,Gilb: ~ ~: pinx:et sculp: 3 4 5 5 6 ~ ~ ~ Z ~ ~ 10 8 ~ 10 D l ~ ~ e H I H K ~ L 1 L 2 4 3 Pat:Blair ~: ~ M 1 2 4 3 fig1 ~ fig 2 ~ fig 3 ~ e ~ f ~ c c ~ ~ f g a g i 5 p i p h g 7 7 s t m t 6 6 ~ 8 8 i l m o n fig19 a r r a l fig13 fig12 b b d e ~ a 11 11 c o ~ o c c f r 12 12 fig 14 q fig 11 q g a ~ c a a f l e h h ~ f h d e g g fig 15 b e m l l m a a a s m n s a a c fig 16 e e p p q e e A g f f h i ~ ~ B fig 18 a Gura et Impens~ Pat Blair Gilb~ Orum Taodunensis ~ d sculpsit fig 4 a a fig 6 ~ a a a c 7 h fig 5 g h g a a 8 fig 7 l ~ ~ ~ c c d fig 10 f a e a fig 8 ~ ~ c c e a f e f d a c b a b fig 9 fig17 ~ ~ a ~ c b b ~ c h Patricius Blair Taod~ Exc~ (157) 7.7.7. Three Bones of the second Rank. ~. The Bones of the Meta carpus. 9-9. The first Bones of the Toes. 10-10. The second Bones of the Toes. H. H. The Ossa Innominata represented in Profile. I. The Pelvis. K. The Tail. L. L. The two Thigh Bones. 1. The Epiphysis receiv'd by the Ossa Innominata, and articulated with the ~ by a Suture. 2. The Trochanter major. 3. The lower Epiphysis. 4. The Patella. M. The. Tiba 1. Perone. 2. The Talus. 3. The Bones of the Tarsus. 4. The Bones of the Metatarsus. 5. The Bones of the Toes. T A B U L A III. Represents the Head in different Views, Parts of the Ear, Proboscis, and Uterus. Figure 1. Represents the forepart of the Head. a. The Hole for the Root of the Trunk. b. The lower part of the Os Palati, over which hangs the Proboscus. c. c. A Depression of the Bone on each side, for lodging of the Muscles of the lower Jaw. d. d. The two Eminences on each side at the top of the Head. e. A Depression in the middle betwixt these two Eminences. f. f. Two Beginnings of the An~ gles for forming the Depressions for the Muscles of the lower Jaw, betwixt which the Surface of the Bone begins to be plain. g. The upper Production of the Sinus where the Eye is lodg'd. h. The Beginnings of the Laminae which run betwixt the two Tables of the Scull, and here appear in the bottom of the Hole for the Root of the Proboscis. i. The Os Vomeris to which the Cartilaginous Septum of the Proboscis was adherent. k. The beginning of the Depression of the Os Palati. l. The middle of the Sinus for the Orbit of the Eye. m. The Articulation of the two Ossa Palati. n. n. The Articulation of the Os Maxillae with the Os Palati; where also is a Crena for containing the Blood Vessels, as X they (158) they go to the nourishment of the Proboscis. o. o. The Place where the Tusks proceed from the Os Palati. p. p. The upper part of the Articulation of the Os Maxillae with the Os Palati. q. q. The broken Extremities of the Tusks. r. r. A great Oval Hole in the Os Maxillae, through which a considerable Branch of the 5thPair of Nerves,and a large Artery from the Arteria durae Matris pass to and are dispers'd in the Proboscis, and by which a big Vein returns and joins to the Vena jugularis. s. The Os Zygomaticum. t. The middle Production for the Orbit of the Eye. Figure 2. represents the Side of the Head. a. The beginning of the Depression for the Muscles of the lower Jaw and Proboscis. b. The Insertion of the Retractores Proboscidis. c. The Insertion of the Musculus Temporalis. d. The bottom of the Orbit of the Eye. e. Its upper Production. f. Its lower Production. g. The Articulation of the Os Maxillae with the Os Zygoma~ ticum. h. The Os Zygomaticum. i. The Articulation of the Os Zygomaticum with the Os Calvariae. k. The Orifice of the Meatus Auditorius l. One of the Condyles of the Occiput, which is articulated with the first Vertebra. m The Orifice of the largeOval Hole in the Os Maxillae. n. The fore Grinder in the upper Jaw. o. The hind Grinder, or rather Wedge for keeping the fore Grinder fast. p. The undulate Lines in the lower Surface of the Teeth. q. The beginning of the Tusks as they proceed from the Os Palati. r. Their broken off Extremities. s. The Sinus in the bottom of the Orbit of the Eye for the Nervus Opticus. Fig 3. represents the back-part of the Head. a. a. The two Eminences at the upper part of the Head enlarg'd, whereby the Sinus betwixt them becomes narrower and deeper. b. The Sinus betwixt these Eminences shortned. c. c. The two Condyles which are receiv'd by the first ~. d. The Hole for the Spinal Marrow. e e. Two Protuberances above the Meatus Auditorius. f. The (159) f. The Orifice of the Meatus Auditorius. g. A Sinus whence the Processus Styloides arises, which is shewn by itself. h. The Cartilage whereby the Processus Styloides is articulated with the Scull. i. Its longest and smallest part. k. Its shortest and biggest part. l. The Orifice for the hard Portion. m. m. The Hole for the Jugular Vein and Par vagum. n. n. The bony part of the Aqueduct o. o. ~ Extremity of the Aqueduct where the fleshy part begins. p. p. The Hole for the Carotid Artery. q. q. The Hole for the Arteria durae Matris~ and 3d Branch of the 5th Pair. r. The middle of the Base of the Scull beneath the Hole for the Spinal Marrow, where the Bone is somewhat raised. s. A Depression on the Base of the Scull before the Choana begins. t. The Choana, or Passage between the Root of the Trunk and the Mouth. u. A Production of the Vomer, or Septum, which divides the Choana in two. x. The Articulation of the Os Zygomaticum with the Os Occipitale. y. The Glenoid Cavity for Reception of the lower Condylus of the lower Jaw. z. The Sinus for the Globe of the Eye. 1. The Os Zygomaticum. 2. The fore Grinder on the right side. 3. The hind Grinder on the right side. 4. The hind Teeth on the left side, which not grinding at all, only serve as a Wedge. 5. The fore Teeth on the left side, the back-part of which does not Grind. 6. 6. The lower Surface of the Grinders, where their undulate Lines appear. 7. 7. Part of the Os ~, where it is articulated with the Os Zygomaticum. 8.8. The great Oval Hole in the Os Maxillae. 9. 9. The back-part of the Os Palati. 10. The Interstice between the the Ossa Palati on the backside. 11. 11. The Tusks as they proceed from the Os Palati. 12. 12. The two broken off Extremities of the Tusks. Fig. 4. represents theScull saw'd transversely, so that its lower part with the Base appear. a. a. The outward Table of the Scull. b. b. The inner Table. X 2 c. c. The (160) c. c. The Laminae which pass betwixt the two Tables. d. d. the cells form'd by these Laminae. e. e. TheOrifices for Vessels which penetrate the Laminae. f. The Seat of the Brain, represented at morelength in Fig. 3. g. g. The two Condyles which are receiv'd by the first Vertebra. h. The Hole for the Spinal Mar row. i. The Os Zygomaticum. Fig. 5. represents the upper part of the Scull saw'd transverse~ ly, with the Cells running be~ twixt the two Tables and La~ minae which cover the Seat of the Brain. Fig. 6. represents the outside of the upper part of the Scull saw'd transversely. a. a. Two Eminences on the top of the Scull. b. A Sinus betwixt these two Eminences. c. A long Spina in the bottom of the Sinus. Fig. 7. represents the fore-part of the lower Jaw. a. a. The two Condyles. b. b. The two Processus Coronae shortned by the opposite view. c. c. The fore Grinders of the lower Jaw. d. The distance between the two Jaws for lodging the Tongue. e. The Symphysis Menti. Fig. 8. represents the back parts of the lower Jaw. a. a. Two Condyles. b. b. Two large Orifices of a Cavity, wherein enter the Vessels for nourishing the Teeth,and wherein are lodg'd the Rudimenta dentium, as in Fig 19. c. c. The two fore Grinders of the lower Jaw. d. d. The undulateLines in their upper Surface. e. The distance between them for lodging the Tongue. f. The Concave part of the lower Jaw. Fig. 9. represents one side of the lower Jaw. a. a. The two Condyles. b. b. The two Processus Coronae. c. A Protuberant part of the lower Jaw where the Rudimenta dentium are lodg'd. d. The inner Grinder of the lower Jaw. e. The outward Grinder, where are represented the Ridges and ~ of the sides of the Teeth. h. The Symphysis Menti. Fig. 10. represents the lower part of the Processus Petrosus, wherein are shewn a. a. A part of the Meatus Auditorius opened. b. The (161) b. The Crena for the Membrana Tympant. c. The Cavitas Tympani, endued with several Cells, and Interstices betwixt them. d. A Continuation of the same Cavity. e. The Orifice of the hard Portion of the Nervus Auditorius. f. The raggedMargin of theBone. Fig. 11.represents the inner Surface of the upper part of the Processus Petrosus. a. a. The ragged Margin of the Bone. b. b. The upper part of the Cavitas Tympani. c. The Foramen Ovale. d. A Protuberance, within which is the Cavity of the Cochlea. e. The Orifice for the hard Portion of the Nervus Auditorius. Fig. 12. represents the Meatus Auditorius with the Processus Petrosus. a. The External Orifice of the Processus etrosus. b. b. The Meatus Auditorius deriv'd from the Laminae above, and running from the outer Table to the Processus Petrosus. c. c. The Laminae and Cellules, as they proceed from the Processus Petrosus on each side. d. The Processus Petrosus. e. Orificium Foraminis Nervi Auditorij. f. Part of the inner Table of the Scull. Fig. 13. represents the Bones of the Ear in their proper Dimensions and different Views. a. The Malleolus. b. The Incus~ c. The Stapes without the Base. d. e. The back-part of the Mal~ and Incus articulated together. f. The Stapes with its Base. g. The Malleolus, Stapes, and Incus articulated together;whereby is shewn the true distance betwixt the Membrana Basis Tympani, and the Foramen Ovale, which the Base of the Stapes shuts. h. The base of the Stapes. Fig. 14. represents the Seat of the Brain enlarg'd, that the Orifices for the Blood Vessels and Nerves may be the more obvious. a. a. The inner Table depriv'd of the surrounding Cellules. b. b. The anterior Sinus. c. c. The Os Ethmoides, with its Eminences,Sulci, and Foramina for the Nervus ~. d. The Crista Galli. e. e. The anterior Eminences. f. f. The Orifice for the Nervus Opticus. g. g. The Hole called the Foramen Lacerum, through which pass the Nervi Motorij ~tici Ophthalmici, or first Branch of the 5th and the ~ ~. h. h. ~ 2d Branch of the ~ Pair. (162) i. i. The third Branch of the 5th Pair. k. k. The Hole for the Arteria durae Matris. l. l. The Hole for the Carotid Artery. m. m. The Hole of the Nervus Auditorius. n. n. The Hole for the Jugular Vein. o. The Hole for the Spinal Marrow. p p. Part of the two Condyles. q. The External Hole for the Spinal Marrow. r. r. The two middle Fossae. s. s. The ~ Petrosus. t. t. The posterior Fossa, or Seat of the Cerebellum. u. The Seat of the Glandula Pituitaria. Fig. 15. represents the Uterus. a. a. Part of the Ligamenta lata Uteri. b. Part of the Vagina cut off. c. The beginning of the Body of the Uterus, d. Divided into two Portions, with an Interstice in the middle. e. e. Several Eminences representing the External part of so many Cellules. f. f. The Cornua Uteri. g. A loose Membrane wrapt up, that the Ovaria below may appear. h. ~ Ovarium depriv'd of the thick loose Membrane which fluctuates above it. i. The Ovarium covered with the Membrane. Fig. 16. represents the Proboscis cut transversly. a. a. The two Cavities of the Proboscis. b. The Septum which divides the Cavities. c. c. The tendinous Intersection which runs from before to behind. d. d. The tendinous Intersection which runs from the Right to the Left. e. e. e. e. The ~ of the 4 Muscles into the tendinous Intersection,whereby the Fibres of the one ascend, and the other descend obliquely. Fig. 17. represents the dissected Proboscis. a. The External part of the Cartilage which surrounds the Cavity of the Probiscis, as it arises from the Hole in the fore-part of the Scull. b. b. That Pair of Muscles call'd the Levatores Proboscidis,rais'd from above the foresaid Cartilages, with their inner Surface turn'd up, that the Divarications from the Blood Vessels in them may appear. c c. The Orifices of the Veins dispers'd in these Muscles. d.d~ The Orifices of the Arteries. e. e. Their several Branchings. f. The descent streight along above the Cavity of the Proboscis. g. g. (163) g. g. The oblique descent of the Fibres of the Erectores of the Proboscis. h. The tendinous Intersection running down the middle ~ the Proboscis. i. i. The Orifices of the Cavities of the Proboscis. Fig. 18. represents the Extremity of the Proboscis cut off. a. A Protuberance arising from the fore-part of the Extremity of the Proboscis, and is extended into a Cavity in the back part b. whereby the Animal catches hold of any thing. Fig. 19. represents one of the Rudiments of the Teeth, which was taken out of the great Hole in the inner side of the lower Jaw, as represented (b. Fig. 8) but much enlarg'd in the proportion. a. Its upper part, which is hard, solid, and white. b. Its middle part distinguished by several Furrows and Ridges. c. Its lower part, which is holIow, and whereinto both the Blood ~ that serve for its Nourishment, and a Branch of the Nerve call'd Maxillaris Inferior, proceeding from the 5th Pair, enters. A. Represents a Portion of the Cuticula, wherein is shewn its inner Surface, and usual thickness; at its Margin at the left hand and lower part are several white lines, which I take to be the Lineaments of so many Blood Vessels; the Pyramids, from whence the Hairs proceed, with the several Favi or Depressions. B. Represents one of the Scabs adhering to the Cuticula, where they are thickest. TAB. (164) T A B U L A IV. Represents the Vertebrae of the Neck both separate and conjoin'd, Ossa Innominata, Scapula, the back-part of the fore and bind Feet, separate Bones of the ~ and Tarsus, concave part of the Liver, and Os ~. Figure 1. Represents the fore and back part of all the seven Vertebrae of the Neck. A. The first Vertebra of the Neck with its upper part in Profile, to shew the Holes for the Arteria Vertebralis. a. a. Two Protuberances, which reach on each side to the Scull. b b. Two Cavities foreshortned, which receive the Condyles of the Scull. c. c. The two Holes whereby the Arteria ~ proceeds from the Scull, and perforates this Vertebra. d. d. Two Holes through which the Artery passes out from this Vertebra. e. e. A Crena betwixt the two foresaid Holes, where the Artery is lodg'd. A. 1. The fore-part of the first Vertebra shewn at large. a. The Hole for the Spinal Marrow. b. ~ Hole for receiving the Tooth of the following Vertebra. c. c. Two Cavities for receiving the Condyles of the Scull. d. d. Two Holes for the Cervical Artery. e. The upper part of the Vertebra. f. Its lower part. g. g. The transverse Processes, whose Protuberances at the Extremities are represented, A. a. a. B. I. The back-part of the first Vertebra a shewn at large. a. The Hole for the Spinal Marrow. b. The Hole for the Tooth of the following Vertebra. c. c. The Cavities which receive the body of the following Vertebra. d. The lower part of the Vertebra. e. e. The Holes for the Cervical Artery. f. f. The two transverse ~ses. A. 2. The fore part of the second ~. a. a. The forked Extremities of the Protuberance,which arises instead of the Processus Spinosus. b. A e e a b A b a Tab 4 A1 c c A3 fig 5 g d a d g a b f d b d f e fig 1 e e e d B3 a d d E A E e e e l A4 a A7 B1 d b d D B f a f e e C C c b c l e e h m B4 a f d c d e fig 2 c fig 4 a b e e d d b S A5 e a h b d d B G H e e T D A E a a B5 a b M A2 M d c d C fig 3 o o K c e d e 2 2 f g g f e e a o o N N a a A6 a b b B2 ~ h c h R R h h d d c d d F e g e ~ e ~ ~ ~ g h h g ~ et Impensis ~ ~ ~: ~ ~ ~ fig 6 B6 1 a d f e a a e b b c c d d c d d fig 8 g h h 3 4 5 d 6 e e A7 a fig 7 a b 3 fig 9 d d 2 b 1 h g h c B7 c d d 5 6 e a e 4 e e ~ d d ~ ~ h h fig 10 a b d b fig 11 a e e d e e f ~ ~: et sculp. f Pat.~ ~ (165) b. A Sinus betwixt them. c. The Hole for the Spinal Mar. row. d. ~ Tooth which is receiv'd by the first Vertebra. e. e. The two convex Surfaces which are receiv'd into the hind Cavities of the first Vertebra. f. f. The two ~ for the Cervical Artery. g. g. Two transverse Processes. h. The lower part of the Vertebra. B. 2. ~ back-part of the same Vertebra. a. a. ~ Protuberances of the Processus Spinosus. b. The Sinus betwixt rhem en~ on the side. c. The ~ for the Spinal Marrow. d. The Point of the Tooth appearing from the other side. e. e. The Holes for the Cervical Artery. f. The concave Body of the Vertebra, which receives the con. vex Surface of the following Vertebra. g. g. The transverse Processes. h. h. The two oblique Processes which receive the oblique Processes of the following Vertebra. Note, That the five following Vertebrae are represented by A. B 3, ~, 5, 6 7; whereof A. represents the fore-part, B. the back-part; all the rest of the small Letters ~ as follows. a. a. &c. The Hole for the Spinal Marrow. b. b. &c. Their convex Bodies, which are received by the concave Surfaces of the fol. lowing. c.c. &c. Their concave Bodies, which receive the convex Surfaces of the former. d. d. &c. The Holes for the Cervical Artery. e. e. &c. The oblique Processes. f. f. &c. The transverse Processes. g. g. &c. The Spinal Processes, which in the fore.part of 3, 4, ~ appear, but in their back part appear a little, in 5 arise to 1 1/2 Inch, and in 6 to 3 Inches. h. h. In 6, 7, are Protuberances, which run back to guard the Cervical ~ as it passes from between the bodies of the Vertebrae, and quits the Perforation in their transverse ~. i. i. Two Sinus's in the backpart of the seventh Vertebra, which with the like ~ in the following make up a Cavity, whereinto the Con~ of the first ~ are receiv'd. ~ ~. (166) Figure 2. Represents the Scapula. a. The Head of the Scapula, whereby it is articulated with the Humerus. b. b. The two Protuberances on each side of its Head. c. The Neck of the Scapula. d. A Sinus between the Processus ~ and the Neck of the Scapula. e. The Processus Coracoides of the Scapula. f. The Processus Spinosus. g. The ~ of the Processus Spinosus. h. A Protuberance running forward from the Processus Spinosus. i. The ~ of the upper edge of the Scapula. l. A thick spongy Epiphysis, which (at the upper edge of the Scapula) was separated by ~. m. The Angle at the back-part of the Scapula. Figure 3. Represents the lower or fore-part of the seven Vertebrae of the Neck. a. b. c. &c. The Iower or forepart of the bodies of all the Vertebrae. h. h. The transverse Processes, which run obliquely forward. i. i. The transverse Processes of the 6th Vertebra, running both before and behind to guard the Arteria Cervicalis. k. A Sinus in the Body of the seventh Vertebra, for receiving a part of the first Rib. Fig (167) Figure 4. represents the fore-part of the Ossa Innominata. ~. ~ A. The Pelvis in Circumference 4 ~ B. The Os Sacrum. C. The upper part of the Os Pubis. B. C. Between the Os Sacrum and the Os Pubis. 1 6 D. E. From the Right to the Left of the Pelvis. 1 5 C. F. From the upper to the lower part of the Os Ilium. 1 G. H. Betwixt the two outward Extremities of the Ossa Innominata. 3 6 B. H. From the Os Sacrum above to the foresaid Point. 2 9~ From H. to K. 1 L. The Circumference of the Acetabulum. 1 6 E. H. Breadth of the Os Ilium. 1 1 M. M. Circumference of the Neck of the Ilium. 1 2 N. N. Breadth of the Os Pubis. 8 O. O. The length of the Foramen Ovale for the Musculus Marsupialis. 51/2 P. P. Its Breadth. Q. Q. Its Circumference. 1 1 R. R. The Breadth of the Ossa Pubis before. 1 5 S. T. The length of the Os Sacrum, from whence it is join'd with the Vertebrae Lumborum, to where 'tis join'd with the Tail. Fig. 5. represents the back-part of the Ossa Innominata. A. The Pelvis. B. The back-part of the Ossa Pubis at their Articulation, where there is large Cavity. C. C. The Oval Hole for the Musculus Marsupialis foreshortned. D. The Cavity for the Acetabulum. E. E. The Margin of the Os Ilium, which separated by boiling. F. The back-part of the Ossa Innominata, shewing their Spinal and oblique Processes. Fig. 6. represents the back part of the Fore Foot. a. a. The Bones of the Carpus. b. b. The Bones of the Metacarpus. c. c. The Ossa Sesamoidea, whereof there are two upon the lower Extremity of each Bone of the ~. d. d. The Bones of the Toes. Fig. (168) Fig. 7. represents the back part of the Hind Foot. a. The Talus. b. Part of the Astragalus. c, c. Bones of the Tarsus. d. d. Bones of the Metatarsus. e, e. Bones of the Toes. Fig. 8. represents the Bones of the Carpus separately. 1. The upper Surface of the External Bone of the first Rank of the ~. 2. The middle Bone. 3. The third Bone of the first Rank. 5. 6. The upper Surface of the three Bones of the second Rank. Fig. 9. represents the Bones of the Tarsus separately. 1. The upper Surface of the Astragalus. 2. The upper Surface of the Os Naviculare, much enlarg'd in proportion to the rest. 3. Its lower Surface. 4. 5. 6. The upper Surface of the Ossa Cuneiformia. Fig. 10. represents the concave side of the Liver. a. The Vena Porta. b. The Vena Cava. Fig. 11. represents the Os Hyoides. a. The fore-part. b. The back-part. d. d. The Cartilago Scutisormis. e. e. The lateral Ossa Hyoidea. f. f. The Bones of the Base of the Os Hyoides. L O N D O N: Printed for H. Clements at the Half Moon, and W. Innys at the ~ Arms, in St. Paui's Church-yard; and D. Brown ~ the ~ ~ without Temple-Bar. 