The Particulars. Of those Observations of the Planet Mars, formerly intimated to have been made at London in the Months of February and March A. 1665/6. To perform, what was promised Num. II. of these Papers, pag. 198; 'tis thought fit now to publish the Particular Observations, concerning the spots in Mars, and their motion,as they were made with a 36 foot Telescope, and produced in K k writing (240) writing before the Royal Society, the 28 March 1666. by Mr. Hoak, as follows; Having a great desire(faith he) to observe the Body of Mars, whilst Acronycal and Retrograde (having formerly with a Glass of about 12. foot long, observ'd some kind of Spots in the Face of it,) though it be not at present in the Perihelium of its Orbe, but nearer its Aphelium, yet I found, that the Face of it, when neer its Opposition to the Sun (with a Charge, the 36. footglass, I made use off, would well bear) appear'd very near as big, as that of the Moon to the naked eye; which I found, by comparing it with the Full Moon, near adjoyning to it, March 10. But such had been the ill disposition of the Air for several nights, that from more than 20. Observations of it, which I had made since its being Retrograde, I could find nothing of satisfaction, though I often imagin'd, I saw Spots, yet the Inflective veins of the Air (if I may so call those parts, which, being interspers'd up and down in it, have a greater or less Refractive power, than the Air next adjoyning, with which they are mixt) did make it so confus'd and glaring, that I could not conclude upon any thing. On the third of March, though the Air were still bad enough yet I could see now and then the Body of Mars appearing of the form A: which I presently described by a Scheme; and about 10. minutes after, as exactly representing what I saw through the Glass, as I could, I drew the Scheme B. This I was sufficiently satisfied (by very often observing it through the Tube, and changing my Eye into various positions, that so there might be no kind of Fallacy in it) could be nothing else, but some more Dusky and Spotted parts of the Face of this Planet. March 10. finding the Air very bad, I made use of a very shallow Eye-glass, as finding nothing Distinct with the greater Charge; and saw the appearance of it as in C, which I imagin'd, might be the Representation of the former Spots by a lesser charge. About 3 of the Clock the same morning, the Air being very bad (though to appearance exceeding clear, and causing all the Stars to twinckle,and the minute Stars to appear very thick) the Body seem'd like D; which I still suppos'd to be the (241) the Representation of the same Spots through a more confused and glaring Air. But observing March 21. I was surprised to find the Air (though not so clear, as to the appearance of small Stars) so exceeding transparent, and the Face of Mars so very well defined, and round, and distinct, that I could manifestly see it of the shape in E. about half an hour after Nine at night. The Triangular spot on the right side (as it was inverted by the Telescope, according to the appearances, through with all the preceeding Figures are drawn) appear'd very black and distinct, the other towards the left more dim; but both of them sufficiently plain and defin'd. About a quarter before 12. of the Clock the same night, I observ'd it again with the same Glass, and found the appearance exactly, as in F; which I imagin'd to shew me a Motion of the former triangular spot: But designing to observe it again about 3. of the Clock the same Morning, I was hindred by cloudy weather. But March 22. about half an hour after 8. at night, finding the same Spots in the same posture, I concluded, that the preceeding Observation was only the appearance of the same Spots at another height and thickness of the Air: And thought my self confirm'd in this Opinion, by finding them in much the same posture, March 23. about half an hour after 9. though the Air was nothing so good as before. And though I desired to make Observations, about 3. of the Clock those mornings; yet something or other interven'd, that hindred me, till March 28. about 3 of the Clock, the Air being light (in weight) though moist and a little hazy; when I plainly saw it, to have the form, represented in I; which is not reconcileable with the other Appearances, unless we allow a Turbinated motion of Mars upon its Center: Which, if such there be, from the Observations made March 21. 22. and 23. we may guess it to be once or twice in about 24. hours unless it may have some kind of Librating motion; which seems not so likely. Now, whether certainly so or not, I shall endeavour, as oft as I have opportunity, further to observe. A particular direction to the Figures mentioned in the precedent discourse. A. March 3 d. ~t 20 m. in the morning:the Air having many inflecK k 2 ting (242) ing parts dispersed up and down in it; by the Wheel Barometer, heavy, B. Another Scheme, which I drew from my Observation, about 10. minutes after, the same morning. Both these were observed with a very deep Eye-glass. C. March 10 d. ~h. 20 m. in the morning: the Air heavy and inflective. Use mas made of a shallow or ordinary Charge. D. March 10 d. 3 h. OO m in the Morning; the Air very heavy and Inflective, which made it glare and radiate, and be more confused,than about 3. hours before. A shallow Charge. E. March 21 d. 91/2 h. post merid; the Air light (in weight) and clear, without inflecting parts; the Face appear'd most distinctly of this Forme. A shallow Charge. F. March 21 d. 113/4 h. post merid; the Air continuing very light and clear, without inflecting vapours. A shallow Charge. G. March 22 d. 81/2 h. post mer. the Air clear, with few inflecting veins in it, and indifferent light. A shallow Charge. H. March 23 d. 91/2 h. post mer. the Air pretty light, but moist, and somewhat thick and hazy, but seem'd to have but few veins, or inflecting parts. I. March 28 d. 3 h. p. m. much the same kind of Air with that of March 23; light,moist,and a little hazy, with some very few veins. 