VI. Extracts of two Letters from the Rev. EdwXard-Gregory, M. A. -Rector og -Langar, fN-6ttinghamshire: toXheS Revv Nevil Maskelyne, D. D. R R. $. -; Astronomer Royal , con:!' v . tainzgg an$Account tf Xe-;^>Dts-coveryfof:a Comet, -zuith Obser .. y . . vat; ns tbereon+Read F5ebruary *7 1793. Extract of the,first Letter7 dated Langar>;near Nottmghat January loth, 1793. . , . TROUBLE you with this lettertoc-ommunicate to you such observations as I halre made of a comet which00 I saw on fthe 8th instant. The evening of the: 8th being very clear, I was employed in myX obseraratoryf intaking diffierences of right a-scension anddeclination between-the:--plarlet::Venus and Aquariiwhen,happening; to 1took towards the rlorth-west part ofthe :hemisphere,: I saw -a star ofy ahaz3rappearance, and about the size of {a star :of the second magnixdey u in the space between the flesure of the 3:Dragon and the foot of Her; . . .S .; cules, lager and brighter than I lzlad 1uefore remarked in that S part of thes heavens ; which exci-ed my attention soX ttiuch, as to induce me to direct such a telescoze to it as lets in mucl ligllt, andis generally used at sea to see ob jects in the nighte This star seemed to have a hazy antl indistinct appearance ln the telescop-en which immediately 1edL me to suspect it mlght be a comet; but the twilight yet remaining, I was not quite Mr. GREGORY)S Acco:nt of the-:Disaozery-of:a ;met Sc. Stcertaxila of it. : Whentllef nikht was cowlvletRy+¢ome;on, it became evident it was a comet, the coma loeixl$ of a wllite lighty llazyn and ill defined. :I could perceive--no nucleus, nor as yet any appearance of atail. I waited for, andS was -fortunate enough toobtain, an obL wrvation of its passage over thew meridi-an under the pole, at 4h 8' 30" bY EARNSHAW S clock,or h 6' 4S" sidereal time; its zenith-distance, by BIRDNS quadranti. being 7.S° 16' 16' The observation of the passage over the meridian was taker by guessing -when a hazy dim appearance, about the shape and size of :t henvs egg, was in the centre of the field of the transit instrument; any light, however weak, effacirlg all the light o f the:-coluet. These observations were merely formed from the best judgment I -GOU1d make :by; the.naked eye, for, as' I before observed,.the ;-light of. the comet was -so weak, as not to bear an-y degree of,light su-ffitient ,to render visible the wires in: the night telescope; which. I have mounted. on a -polar axis, with a proper s,ptern of wires to. take differences of right ascension and declination. I continued to watch the comet until three o'clock in the morliing, when it had ascended toysome considerable altitude; I could perceive with the night telescope a very faint, but yet . . sufficiently eviderlt tail, and that the comet had moved a few minutes to the west; that is had increased its right ascension, and also its polaridistance. I then obserared the cotnet with.other telescopes, of less apertfure and deeper powers S in such it appeared a confused white hazy light, nor could I perceixJe ally nucleus or tail, although it was -visible in the nightglass,,, with its direction towards the.zenith. H ffi 5X ffi GREGQi:'Si Se>nt f the ZcoweC Irx caseX you ea,,,,re alrea-dy apprisEd of e:-appSearance of this comet, and of course: thisz tnfbrmation is superfluous, I hope you will attribuw my givlng you this:troul301e to tmy eager desire that these extraordinary bodies may be observed with such capital instruments-as you are'-in possessionzof; and alsc} to shew you, by these attention-s, :the sense Iv entertain of the many civilities I haave received from you.I ain, &c. EDWARD GREDGORYw . . . Oxthe gth I; obtairzed a very imperfect glimpse of :the comet, the twilight yet being very consideralUle, and the air v-ery hazy The co:met has moved consideralilywestward, arld its polar (li$tance,I think, is iricreased. I thought the tail appeared rather brighterandlonger; -the coma not altered ; no nucleus to be seene This observation was 7 ex tremely imperfect,--the comet being seen with the night-glass held in my llanal-> during a SPAC@ of four or five minutes; 0 the sky, -in that part, was cloudless, thotugh most of the surrounding constellations were obscured. Extract of the second L-etterX dated January gSth, 179tg. THE observations of the comet were taken after ;the: folIowing manner Finding that any degree of light sufficient to render the wires visible effaced the comet, I brought it, as nearly as I could judge, lnto the centre of the iield without using -any lightv and then cast lightvon the illu1ninator; and in that stage of tlle process b@tween the comet's disappearing and the wires bec-orning visible, I trusted to the impression left on the eye for the place of the comet when it vanished, and of a Coznft, with Observatzons thereon.I think I could rlot err more than three or four minutes from its being on the middle horizontal wire, and about as mucl from the intersection of the vertical, with tlle middle horizontal wire.: But, after all, it is a vain thing\ to talk of critical exactness in this matter7 either inthe quadrant or transit observations, under the circomstances I am going to describe to you. The cometn in the telescopes of these instruments, had somewhat Xthe appearance of a hen's egg, seen obliquely,;with the large end towards the eye; of a dull wlaite misty light. I could perceive no nucleus, tllerefore I considered the-longest diameter, which ras nearly directed towards the east, (but there was hardly any perceivable differerlce ill the diameters) as the line in which, had anynucleus been tvisible, it would have been found; and I endeavollred, in the manner I have described, to bring this line on the middle horizontal wire, and the brightest part of it up to the verticaSl wire; and wllen I thought I had effiected this, I read oSthe divisiorls on the arcla, and noted the time by EARNSHAW)S regulator. OrlJanuary 21St, I observed the instantaneous immersion of > Tauri, at oh $4 22" by my clock h and at 2h :SS 31JX I saw it -again about a minutevs distance from tlle moon's enlightened limbf the moment of ernersion having-escaped observation. I shad, on the same day, obsere7ed the suns passage over the merldian, by a mean of the wires, at 20hS o8' S3t/ the clock had been losing a little more than a second a day, for eight or ten weeks lRast lflhe rnean of ten observations of the filrst satellite * Hence the imlnersion of tlle star was at 4h 34 +8"96, azd th frst sight of it aICter the emersion at 5h 43/ 46'1, apparent time. This may perhaps be useful in deter mfining the longitude of Mr. GREGORY^S observatory.-Note by ;Or, MASKBLR{NSO S4 Mr. GREGORY'S Sccount oJtlse Discovery of a Comet, Sc. Of Jupiter place me :3' 47't, in time, west of Greenwich. My latitude, deduced from a great number of observations of thesun and starsa in all the various ways of determining the latitude,with BIRDVS qUadrant, HADLEY'S quadranta and two equatorial instruments, is 52° $+' ;7" N. X It remains th-at:I relate xvhat I saw of the comet's tail. At l,5hastronomical time of the 8tll, or three o'clock civil time in the lnorning of the gth, I saw a very faint beam of light extending itself froln the coma tovvards the zenith. Wllen I brouE,ht the coma to the centre of the field of the night-glass, which takes in about 7-degrees, it reached to near the circumference of the field, consequently itamounted to about 32 degrees. I thought itAbrighter and longer when I had a mere glimpse of the comet in the evening twilight oll the gth. On the oth, X 1th, and 12th, the tail was rather brighter, yet very faint; not breader than a finger, nor brighter than abeam of light let into an ill darkened room for prismatic experiments. It extended itself beyond the circum ference, when the coma was in the centre of the night-glass perhaps a degree, consequently was 4°2 long; it was inclined towards the east, and on the l2th pointed due east at midnight. . . . . On the Xth, the comet passedX the middle wire of the transit instrument under the pole, at 8h 2S' O" sidereal time. . The zenith distance was 56° 2/ l5". I;am7 &c. EDWARD GREGORY. 