[ 25 ] III. Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Twenty-eighth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. (hem. Royal Institution, Foreign Associate of the Acad. Sciences, Paris, Ord. Boruss. Pour le Md6rite, Eq., Meemb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, G6tting,,en, Modena, Stockholm, Munich, Bruxelles, Vienna, Bologna, dc. $jc. Received October 22,-Read November 27 and December 11, 1851. ? 36. On Lines of Mlagnetic Force; their dginite character; and their distribution within a Magnet and through Space. 3070. FRoM my earliest experiments on the relation of electricity and magnetism (114. note), I have had to think and speak of lines of magnetic force as representations of the magnetic power; not merely in the points of quality and direction, but also in quantity. The necessity I was under of a more frequent use of the term in some recent researches (2149. &c.), has led me to believe that the time has arrived, when the idea conveyed by the Phrase should be stated very clearly, and should also be carefully examined, that it may be ascertained how far it may be truly applied in representing magnetic conditions and phenomena; how far it may be useful in their elucidation; and, also, how far it may assist in leading the mind correctly on to further conceptions of the physical nature of the force, and the recognition of the possible effects, either new or old, which may be produced by it. 3071. A line of magnetic force may be defined as that line which is described bya very small magnetic needle, when it is so moved in either direction correspondent to its length, that the needle is constantly a tangent to the line of motion; or it is that line along which, if a transverse wire be moved in either direction, there is no tendency to the formation of any current in the wire, whilst if moved in any other direction there is such a tendency; or it is that line which coincides with the direction of the magnecrystallic axis of a crystal of bismuth, which is carried in either direction along it. The direction of these lines about and amongst magnets and electric currents, is easily represented and understood, in a general manner, by the ordinary use of iron filings. 3072. These lines have not merely a determinate direction, recognizable as above (3071.), but, because they are related to a polar or antithetical power, have opposite qualities or conditions in opposite directions; these qualities, which have to be distinguished and identified, are made manifest to us, either by the position of the ends of the magnetic needle, or by thle direction of the current induced in the noving wire. MDCCCLII. E 26 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) 3073. A point equally important to the definition of these lines is, that they represent a determinate and unchanging amount of force. Though, therefore, their forms, as they exist between two or more centres or sources of magnetic power, may vary very greatly, and also the space through which they may be traced, yet the sum of power contained in any one section of a given portion of the lines is exactly equal to the sum of power in any other section of the same lines, however altered in form, or however convergent or divergent they may be at the second place. The experimental proof of this character of the lines will be given hereafter (3109. &c.). 3074. Now it appears to mie that these lines may be employed with great advantage to represent the nature, condition, direction and comparative amount of the magnetic forces; and that in many cases they have., to the physical reasoner at least, a superiority over that method which represents the forces as concentrated in centres of action, such as the poles of magnets or needles; or some other methods, as, for instance, that which considers north or south magnetisms as fluids diffused over the ends or amongst the particles of a bar. No doubt, any of these methods which does not assume too much, will, with a faithful application, give true results; and so they all ought to give the same results as far as they can respectively be applied. But some may, by their very nature, be applicable to a far greater extent, and give far more varied results, than others. For just as either geometry or analysis may be employed to solve correctly a particular problem, though one has far more power and capability, generally speaking, than the other; or just as either the idea of the reflexion of images, or that of the reverberation of sounds mnay be used to represent certain physical forces and conditions; so may the idea of the attractions and repulsions of centres, or that of the disposition of magnetic fluids, or that of lines of force, be applied in the consideration of magnetic phenomena. It is the occasional and more frequent use of the latter which I at present wish to advocate. 3075. I desire to restrict the ineaning of the term line offorce, so that it shall imply no more than the condition of the force in any given place, as to strength and direction; and not to include (at present) any idea of the nature of the physical cause of the phenomena; or to be tied up with, or in any way dependent on, such an idea. Still, there is no impropriety in endeavouring to conceive the method in which the physical forces are either excited, or exist, or are transmitted; nor, when these by experiment and comparison are ascertained in any given degree, in representing them by any method which we adopt to represent the mere forces, provided no error is thereby introduced. On the contrary, when the natural truth and the conventional representation of it most closely agree, then are we most advanced in our knowledge. The emission and the ether theories present such cases in relation to light. The idea of a fluid or of two fluids is the same for electricity; and there the further idea of a current has been raised, which indeed has such hold on the mind as occasionally to embarrass the science as respects the true character of the physical agencies, and may be doing so, even now, to a degree which we at present little suspect. rfhe ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 27 same is the case with the idea of a magnetic fluid or fluids, or with the assumption of magnetic centres of action of which the resultants are at the poles. How the magnetic force is transferred through bodies or through space we know not; whether the result is merely action at a distance, as in the case of gravity; or by some intermediate agency, as in the cases of light, beat, the electric current, and (as I believe) static electric action. The idea of magnetic fluids, as applied by some, or of magnetic centres of action, does not include that of the latter kind of transmission, but the idea of lines of force does. Nevertheless, because a particular method of representing the forces does not include such a mode of transmission, the latter is not therefore disproved; and that method of representation which harmonizes with it may be the most true to nature. The general conclusion of philosophers seems to be, that such cases are by far the most numerous, and for my own part, considering the relation of a vacuum to the magnetic force and the general character of magnetic phenomena external to the magnet, I am more inclined to the notion that in the transmission of the force there is such an action, external to the magnet, than that the effects are merely attraction and repulsion at a distance. Such an action may be a function of the ether; for it is not at all unlikely that, if there be an ether, it should have other uses than simply the conveyance of radiations (2591. 2787.). Perhaps when we are more clearly instructed in this matter, we shall see the source of the contradictions which are supposed to exist between the results of COULOMB, HARRIS and other philosophers, and find that they are not contradictions in reality, but mere differences in degree, dependent upon partial or imperfect views of the phenomena and their causes. 3076. Lines of magnetic force may be recognized, either by their action on a magnetic needle, or on a conducting body moving across them. Each of these actions may be employed also to indicate, either the direction of the line, or the force exerted at any given point in it; and this they do with advantages for the one method or the other inder particular circumnstances. The actions are however very different in their nature. The needle shows its results by attractions and repulsions; the moving conductor or wire shows it by the production of a current of electricity. The latter is an effect entirely unlike that produced on the needle, and due to a different action of the forces; so that it gives a view and a result of properties of the lines of force, such as the attractions and repulsions of the needle could never show. For this and other reasons I propose to develope and apply the method by a moving conductor on the present occasion. 3077. The general principles of the development of an electric current in a wire moving under the influence of magnetic forces, were given on a former occasion, in the First and Second Series of these Researches (36. &c.); it will therefore be unnecessary to do more than to call attention, at this time, to the special character of its indiE 2 28 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) cations as compared to those of a magnetic needle, and to show how it becomes a peculiar and important addition to it, in the illustration of magnetic action. 3078. The moving wire produces its greatest effect and indication, not when passing from stronger to weaker places, or the reverse, but when moving in places of equal action, i. e. transversely across the lines of force (217.). 3079. It determines the direction of the polarity by an effect entirely independent of pointing or such like results of attraction or repulsion; i. e. by the direction of the electric current produced in it during the motion*. 3080. The principle can be applied to the examination of the forces within numerous solid bodies, as the metals, as well as outside in the air. It is not often embarrassed by the difference of the surrounding media, and can be used in fluids, gases or a vacuum with equal facility. Hence it can penetrate and be employed where the needle is forbidden; and in other cases where the needle might be resorted to, though greatlv embarrassed by the media around it, the moving wire may be used with an immediate result (3142.). 3081. The method can even be applied with equal facility to the interior of a magnet (31 16.), a place utterly inaccessible to the magnetic needle. 3082. The moving wire can be made to sum up or give the resultant at once of the magnetic action at many different places, i. e. the action due to an area or section of the lines of force, and so supply experimental comparisons which the needle could not give, except with very great labour, and then imperfectly. Whether the wire moves directly or obliquely across the lines of force, in one direction or another, it sums up, with the same accuracy in principle, the amount of the forces represented by the lines it has crossed (3113.). 3083. So a moving wire may be accepted as a correct philosophical indication of the presence of magnetic force. Illustrations of the capabilities already referred to, will arise and be pointed out in the present paper; and though its sensibility does not as yet approach to that of the magnetic needle, still, there is no doubt that it may be very greatly increased. The diversity of its possible arrangements, and the great advantage of that diversity, is already very manifest to myself. Though both it and the needle depend for their results upon essential characters and qualities of the magnetic force, yet those which are influential, and, therefore indicated, in the one case, are very different from those which are active in the other; I mean, as far as we have been able as yet to refer directly the effects to essential characters: and this difference may, hereafter, enable the wire to a give a new insight into the nature of the magnetic force; and so it may, finally, bear upon inquiries, such as whether magnetic polarity is axial or dependent upon transv erse lateral conditions whether * A natural standard of this polarity may be obtained, by referring to the lines of force of the earth, in the northern hemisphere, thus :--if a person with arms extended move forward in these latitudes, then the direction of the electric current, which would tend to be produced in a wire represented by the arms, would be from the-right hand through the arm andIbody towards the lef. ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 29 the transmission of the force is after the manner of a vibration or current, or simply action at a distance; and the many other questions that arise in the ininds of those who are pursuing this branch of knowledge. 3084. I will proceed to take the case of a simple bar magnet, employing it in illustration of what has been said respecting the lines of force and the moving conductor, and also for the purpose of ascertaining how these lines of force are disposed, both without and within the magnet itself, upon which they are dependent or to which they belong. For this purpose the following Fig. 1. apparatus was employed. Let fig. 1 represent a x~~~~~ wooden stand, of which the base is a board 17,5 , ' 7 inches in length, and 6 inches in breadth, and 0'8 of an inch in thickness: these dim-nensions will serve as B a scale for the other parts. A B are two wooden uprights; D is an axis of wood having two long depressions cut into it, for the purpose of carrying the two bar magnets F and G. The wood is not cut away quite across the axis, but is left in the middle, so that the magnets are about -1?th of an inch apart. From 0 towards the supports A, it is removed, however, as low down as the axis of revolution, so as to form a notch between the two magnets when they are in their places; and by further removal of the wood, this notch is continued on to the end of the axis at P. rThis notch, or opening, is intended to receive a wire, which can be carried down the axis of rotation, and then passing out between the two magnets, anywhere between 0 and N, can be returned towards the end P on the outside. The magnets are so placed, that the central line of their compound system coincides with the axis of rotation; E being a handle by which rotation, when required, is given. HI and I are two copper rings, slipping tightly on to the axis, by which communication is to be made between a wire adjusted so as to revolve with the magnets, and the fixed ends of wires proceeding from a galvanometer. Thus, let L represent a covered wire; which being led along the bottom of the notch in the axis of the apparatus, and passing out at the equatorial parts of the magnets, returns into the notch again neat N, and terminates at P. When the form of the wire loop is determined and given to it, then a little piece of soft wood is placed between the wires in the notch at K, of such thickness, that when the ring I is put into its place, it shall press upon the upper wire, the piece of wood, and the lower wire, and keep all tightly fixed together, and at the same time leave the two wires effectually separated. The second ring, H, is then put into its place on the axis, and the introduction of a small wedge of wood, at the end of the axis, serves to press the end P into close and perfect contact with the ring IS, and keep all in order. So the wire is free to revolve with the magnts, and the r'ings, I and TI ae its virtual terrninations. 30 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) Two clips, as at C, hold the ends of the galvanometer wire (also of copper); and the -latter are made to press against the rings by their elasticity, and give an effectual contact bearing, which generates no current, either by difference of nature or by friction, during the revolution of the axis. 3085. The two magnets are bars, each 12 inches long, 1 inch broad, and 0'4 of an inch thick. They weigh each 19 ounces, and are of such a strength as to lift each other end to end and no more. When the two are adjusted in their place, it is with the similar poles together, so that they shall act as one magnet, with a division down the middle: they are retained in their place by tying, or, at times, by a ring of copper which slips tightly over them and the axis. 3086. The galvanometer is a very delicate instrument made by RUHMKORFF (2651.). It was placed about 6 feet from the magnet apparatus, and was not affected by any revolution of the latter. The wires, connecting it with the magnets, were of copper, 0-04 of an inch in diameter, and in their whole length about 25 feet. The length of the wire in the galvanometer I do not know; its diameter was Ty '-th of an inch. The condition of the galvanometer, wires, and magnets, was such, that when the bend of the wires was formed into a loop, and that carried once over Fig. 2. the pole of the united magnets, as from a to b, fig. 2, the galf b vanometer needle was deflected two degrees or more. The vibration of the needle was slow, and it was easy therefore to reiterate this action five or six times, or oftener, breaking and making contact with the galvanometer at right intervals, so as to combine the effect of like induced currents; and then a deflection of 100 or 15? on either side of zero could be readily obtained. The arrangement, therefore, was sufficiently sensible for first experiments and though the resistance opposed by the thin long galvanometer wire to feeble currents was considerable, yet it would always be the same, and would not interfere with results, where the final effect was equal to 00, nor in those where the consequences were shown, not by absolute measurement, but by comparative differences. 3087. The first practical result produced by the apparatus described, in respect of magneto-electric induction generally, is, that a piece of metal or conducting matter which moves across lines of magnetic force, has, or tends to have, a current of electricity produced in it. A more restricted and precise expression of the full effect is the following. If a continuous circuit of conducting matter be traced out, or conceived of, either in a solid or fluid mass of metal or conducting matter, or in wires or bars of metal arranged in non-conducting matter or space; which being moved, crosses lines of magnetic force, or being still, is by the translation of a magnet crossed by such lines of force; and further, if, by inequality of angular motion, or by contrary motion of different parts of the circuit, or by inequality of the motion in the same direction, one part crosses either more or fewer lines than the other; then a current will exist round it, due to the differential relation ofthe two or more interON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 31 secting parts during the time of the motion: the direction of which current will be determined (with lines having a given direction of polarity) by the direction of the intersection, combined with the relative amount of the intersection in the two or more efficient and determining (or intersecting) parts of the circuit. 3088. Thus, if fig. 3 represent a magnetic pole N, and over it a circuit, formed of metal, which may be of any shape, and which is at first in the Fig. 3. position c; then if that circuit be moved in one direction into the position 1; or in the contrary direction into position 2; or s>Q1< 4 by a double direction of motion into position 3; or by translation into position 4; or into position 5; or any position between the first and these or any resembling them; or, if the first position c being retained, the pole move to, or towards, the position n; then, an electric current will be produced in the circuit, having in every case the same direction, being that which is Marked in the figure by arrows. Reverse motions will give currents in the reverse direction (256. &c.). 3089. The general principles of the production of electrical currents by magnetic induction have been formerly given (27. &c.)*, and the law of the direction of the current in relation to the lines of force, stated (114, 3079 note). But the full meaning of the above description can only be appreciated hereafter, when the experimental results, which supply a larger knowledge of the relations of the current to the lines ofjbrce, have been described. 3090. When lines offorce are spoken of as crossing a conducting circuit (3087.), it must be considered as effected by the translation of a magnet. No mere rotation of a bar magnet on its axis, produces any induction effect on circuits exterior to it; for then, the conditions above described (3088.) are not fulfilled. The system of power about the magnet must not be considered as revolving with the magnet, any more than the rays of light which emanate from the sun are supposed to revolve with the sun. The magnet may even, in certain cases (3097.), be considered as revolving amongst its own forces, and producing a full electric effect, sensible at the galvanometer. 3091. In the first instance the wire was carried down the axis of the magnet to the middle distance, then led out at the equatorial part, and returned on the outside; fig. 4 will represent such a disposition. Supposing the Fig. 4. magnet and wire to revolve once, it is evident that the wire a may be considered as passing in, at the axis of the magnet, e and returning from b across the lines of force external to the a magnet, to the axis again at c; and that in one revolution,* Philosophical Transactions, 1832, page 131, &c. 32 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) the wire from b to c has intersected once, all the lines of force emanating from the N end of the magnet. In other words, whatever course the wire may take from I to c, the whole system of lines belonging to the magnet has been once crossed by the wire. In order to have a correct notion of the relation of the result, we will suppose a person standing at the handle E, fig. 1 (3084.), and looking along the magnets, tile magnets being fixed, and the wire loop from b to c turned over toward the left-hand into a horizontal plane; then, if that loop be moved over towards the right-hand, the magnet remaining stationary, it will be equivalent to a direct revolution (according to the hands of a watch or clock) of 1800, and will produce a feeble current in a given direction at the galvanotneter. If it be carried back 1800 in the reverse direction) it will produce a corresponding current in the reverse direction to the former. If the wire be held in a vertical, or any other plane, so that it may be considered as fixed, and the magnet be rotated through half a revolution, it will also produce a current and if rotated in the contrary direction, will produce a contrary current; but as to the direction of the currents, that produced by the direct revolution of the wire is the same as that produced by the reverse revolution of the magnet;, and that produced by the reverse revolution of the wire is the same as that produced by the direct revolution of the magnet. A more precise reference of the direction of the current to the particular pole employed, and the direction of the revolution of the wire Ord magnet, is not at present necessary; but if required is obtained at once by reference to fig. 3 (3088.), or to the general law (114. 3079. note). 3092. The magnet and loop being rotated together in either direction, no trace of an electric current was produced. In this case the effect, if any, could be greatly exalted, because the rotation could be continued for 10, 20, or any number of revolutions without derangement, and it was easy to make thirty revolutions or more within the time of the swing of the galvanometer needle in one direction. It was also easy, if any effect were produced, to accumulate it upon the galvanometer by reversing the rotation at the due time. But no amount of revolution of the magnet and wire together could produce any effect. 3093. The loop was then taken out of the axis of the magnet, but attached to it by a piece of pasteboard, so that all should be fixed together Fig. 5. and revolve with the same angular velocity, fig. 5; but whatever the shape or disposition of the loop, whether large or small, near or distant, open or shut, in one plane, or contorted into various planes; whatever the shape or condition, or place, provided it moved altogether with the magnet, no current was produced. 3094. Furthermore, when the loop was out of the magnets, and by expedients of arrangement, was retained imnmoveable, whilst the magnet revolved, no amount of rotation of the magnet (unaecompanied by translation of place) produced any degree of current through the loop. 3095. The loop of wire was then made of two parts; the portion c, fig. 6, on the ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 33 outside of the magnet, was fixed at b, and the portion a, being a separate piece, was carried along the axis until it came in contact with the Fig. 6. former at d; the revolution of one part was thus permitted either with or without the other, yet preserving always metallic contact and a complete circuit for the induced current. In this case, when the external wire and the magnet were fixed, no current was produced by any amount of revolution of the wire a on its axis. Neither was any current produced when the magnet and wire, ccd, vere revolved together, whether the wire a revolved with them or not. When the magnet was revolved without the external part of c d, or the latter revolved without the magnet, then currents were produced as before (3091.). 3096. The magnet was now included in the circuit, in the following manner. The wire a, fig. 7, was placed in metallic contact on both sides Fig. 7. of the interval betwveen the magnets at N (or the pole), and the part c was brought into contact with the centre at d. The result was in everything the same as when the wire a was continued up to d, i. e. no amount of revolution of the magnet and part c together could produce any electric current. When c was made to terminate at e or the equatorial part of the magnet, the result was precisely the same. Also, when c terminated at e, the part a of the wire was continued to the centre at d, and there the contact perfected, but the result was still the same. No difference, therefore, was produced, by the use between N and d, or d and e, of the parts of the magnet in place of an insulated copper wire, for the completion of the circuit in which the induced current was to travel. No rotation of the part a produced any effect, wherever it was made to terminate. 3097. In order to obtain the power of rotating the magnet without the external part of the wire, a copper ring was fixed round, and in contact with it at the equatorial part, and the wire c, fig. 8, made to bear by spring Fig. 8. pressure against this ring, and also against the ring H on the axis, fig. 1 (3084.); the circuit was examined, and found e complete. Now when the wire c e was fixed and the magnet rotated, a current was produced, and that to the same amount for the same number of revolutions, whether the part of the wire a terminated at N, or was continued on to the centre of the magnet, or was insulated from the magnet and continued up to the copper ring e. When the wire, by expedients, which though rough were sufficient, was made to revolve whilst the magnet was still, currents in the contrary direction were produced, in accordance with the effect before described (3091.); and the results when the wire and magnet rotated together (3092.), show that these are in amount exactly equal to the former. When the inner and the outer wires were both motionless, and the magnet only revolved, a current in thle full proportion was produced, and that, whether the axial wire a made contact at the pole of the magnet or in the centr'e. MDCCCLII. F 34 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXV111.) 3098. Another arrangement of the magnet and wires was of the following kind. A radial insulated wire was fixed in the middle of the magnets, from the centre d, fig. 9, to the circumference b, being connected there with Fig. 9. the equatorial ring (3097.); an axial wire touched this radial wire at the centre and passed out at the pole; the i external part of the circuit, pressing on the ring at the equator, proceeded on the outside over the pole to form the communication as before. In the case where the magnet was revolved without the axial and the external wire, the full and proper current 'was produced; the small wire, d b, being, however, the only part in which this current could be generated by the motion; for it replaced, under these circumstances, the body of the magnet employed on the former occasion (3097.). 3099. The external part of the wire, instead of being carried back over that pole of the magnet at which the axial wirte entered, was continued away over the other pole, and so round by a long circuit to the galvanometer; still the revolution of the magnet, under any of the described circumstances, produced exactly the same results as before. It will be evident by inspection of fig. 10, that, however the wires are carried away, the general result will, according to the Fig. 10. assumed principles of action, be the same; for if a be the axial wire, and bI, b", 6"' the equatorial wire, represented in >. three different positions, whatever magnetic lines of force pass across the latter wire in one position, will also pass .... across it in the other, or in any other position which can be given to it. The distance of the wire at the place of inter.. ............. section with the lines of force, has been shown, by the experiments (3093.), to be unimportant. 3100. Whilst considering the condition of the forces of a magnet, it may be admitted, that the two magnets used in the experimental investigations described, act truly as one central magnet. We have only to conceive smnaller similar magnets to be introduced to fill up the narrow space not occupied by the wire, and then the complete magnet would be realized:-or it may be viewed as a magnet once perfect, which has had certain parts removed; and we know that neither of these changes would disturb the general disposition of the forces. In and around the bar magnet the forces are distributed in the simplest and most regular manner. Supposing the bar removed from other magnetic influences, then its power must be considered as extending to any distance, according to the recognized law; but, adopting the representative idea of lines offorce (3074.), any wire or line proceeding from a point in the magnetic equator of the bar, over one of the poles, so as to pass through the magnetic axis, and so on to a point on the opposite side of the magnetic equator, must intersect all the lines in the plane through which it passes, whether its course be over the one pole or the other. So also a wire proceeding from the end of the magnet at the magnetic axis, to a point at the mxagnetic equator, mnust intersect ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 35 curves equal to half those of a great plane, however small or great the length of the wire may be; and though by its tortuous course it may pass out of one plane into another on its way to the equator. 3101. Further, if such a wire as that last described be revolved once round the end of the magnet to which it is related, a slipping contact at the equator being permitted for the purpose, it will intersect all the lines of force during the revolution; and that, whether the polar contact is absolutely coincident with the magnetic axis, or is anywhere else at the end of the bar, provided it remain for the time unchanged. All this is true, though the magnet maybe subject, by induction at a distance, to other magnets or bodies, and may be exerting part of its force on them, so as to make the distribution of its power very irregular as compared to the case of the independent bar (3084), or may have an irregular or contorted shape, even up to the horseshoe form. It is evident, indeed, that if a wire have one of its ends applied to any point on the surface of a magnet, and the other end to a point in the magnetic equator, and the latter be slipped once round the magnetic equator, and the loop of wire be made to pass over either pole, so as at last to resume its first position, it will in the course of its journey have intersected once every line of force belonging to the magnet. 3102. A wire from pole to pole which passes close to the equator, of course intersects half the external lines of force in a great plane, twice, in opposite directions as regards the polarity; and, therefore, when revolved round the magnet, has no electric current induced in it. If it do not touch at the equator, still, whatever lines it intersects, are twice intersected, and so the same equilibrium is preserved. If the magnet rotate under the wire, it acts the part of the central rotating wire already referred to (3095.); or if any course for the electric current other than a right line is assumed in it, that course is subject to the law of neutrality above stated, as will be seen by reference to the internal condition of the magnet itself (3117.). Hence the reason why no currents are produced, under any circumstances of motion, by the application of such conducting circuits to the magnet. I may further observe, in reference to the intersection of the lines of force, that if a wire ring, a little larger in diameter than the magnet, be held edgeways at one of the poles, so that the lines of force there shall be in its plane, and be then turned 900 and carried over the pole to the equator (3088.), it will intersect once all the lines of the magnet, except the very few which will remain unintersected at the equator. 3103. Whilst endeavouring to establish experimentally the definite amount of the power represented by the lines offorce, it is necessary to take certain precautions, or the results will be in error. For instance, ten revolutions of the wire about the magnet, or of the magnet within the fixed wire (3097.), ought to give a constant deflection at the galvanotneter, and yet without any change in the position of the wire the results may at different times differ very much from each other; being at one time 9?O and at another only 4? or 50. I found this to be due to difference of velocity within certain limits, and to be explained and guarded against as follows. F 2 36 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVI1I.) 3104. If a wire move across lines of force slowly, a feeble electric current is produced in it, continuing for the time of the motion; if it move across the same lines quickly, a stronger current is produced for a shorter time. The effect of the current which deflects a galvanometer needle, is opposed by the action of the earth, which tends to return the needle to zero. A continuous weak current, therefore, cannot deflect it so far as a continuous stronger current. If the currents be limited in duration, the same effect will occur unless the time of the swing of the needle to one side be not considerably more than the time of either of the currents. If the time of the needle-swing be ten, and the time of ten quick rotations be six, then all the effect of the induced current is exerted in swinging the needle; but if the time of ten slow rotations be twelve or fifteen, then part of the current produced is not recognized by the extent of the vibration, but only by its holding the needle out awhile, at the extremity of a smaller arc of declination. Therefore, when quick and slow velocity was compared, and, indeed, in every case of comparative rotations of the wire and maognet, only that number of rotations was taken which could be well included within the time of the needle's journey to one side; when the needle, therefore, was seen to travel on to its extreine distance after the rotation and the inducing current had ceased. If the needle began to return the instant the motion was over, such an experiment was rejected for purposes of comparison. When these precautions were attended to, and velocities of revolution taken, which occupied times from one-third to three-fourths of that required for the swing of the needle, then the same number of revolutions (ten) gave the same amount of deflection, namely 9?05, with my apparatus, though the time, of revolution varied as 1: 2, or even in a higher degree. 3105. Another cause of difference produced by varying velocity, is the diminution of the action of the current on the needle, as the angle which the latter forms with the convolutions of the coil increases. Hence a constant current produces more effect on the deflection of the needle for the first moments of time than afterwards. Trhis effect, however, was scarcely sensible for swinging deflections of 90 or 100, produced by currents which lwere over before the needle had ftoved through 40 or 5?. 3.106. It has already been shown, that it is a matter of indifference whether the wire revolve in one direction or the magnet in the other (3091.); and this is still further proved by the cases where the magnet and the wire revolve together (3092.); for then the currents which tend to form are exactly equal and opposed to each other, whatever the position of the wire may be. As the immobility of the needle is a point more easily ascertained than the extent of an arc, indicated only for a moment, and as the rotations of the magnet and wire conjointly can be made rapid and continuous, the proof in such cases is very satisfactory. 3107. Proceeding to experiment upon the effect of the Fig. 11. distance of the wire c, fig. 11, from the magnet, the wire was ^ nmade to vary, so that sometimes it was not more than 8 inches long (being of copper and 0 04 of an inch in dia-? neeter), and only half an inch fromn the magnet, whilst at ON TH E LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 37 other times it was 6 or 8 feet long and extended to a great distance. The deflection due to ten revolutions of the magnet was observed, and the average of several observations, for each position of the wire, taken: these were very close (with the precautions before described) for the same position; and the averages for different positions agreed perfectly together, being 9?5. J endeavoured to repeat these experiments on distance by moving the wire and preserving the magnet stationary in the manner before described (3091.); they were not so striking because time would only allow of smaller deflections being obtained (3104.), but the same number of journeys through an arc of 1800 gave the same deflection at the galvanometer, whether the course of the wire was close to the magnet or far off; and the deflection agreed with those obtained when the magnet was rotating and the wire at rest. 3108. As to velocity of motion; when the magnet was rotating and the wire placed at djfferent distances, then ten revolutions of the magnet produced the same deflection of the needle, whether the motion was quicker or slower, and whatever the distance of the wire, provided the precautions before described were attended to (3104.). That the same would be true if the wire were moving and the magnet still, is shown by this ; that whatever the velocity with which the wire and magnet revolve together, and whatever their distance apart, they exactly neutralize and equal each other (3096.). 3109. From these results the following conclusions may be drawn. The amount of magnetic force, as shown by its effect in evolving electric currents, is determinate for the same lines of force, whatever the distance of the point or plane, at which their power is exerted, is from the magnet. Or it is the same in any two, or more, sections of the same lines of force, whatever their form or their distance from the seat of the power may be. This is shown by the iesults with the magnet and the wire, when both are in the circuit (3108.); and also by the wire loop revolving with the magnet (3092.) ; where the tendencies of currents to form in the two parts oppose and exactly neutralize or compensate each other. 3110. In the latter case very varying sections outside of the magnet may be com.pared to each other; thus, the wire may be conceived of as passing (or be actually formed so as to intersect) lines of force near the pole, and then, being continued along a line of force until over the equator, may be directed so as to intersect the same lines of force in the contrary direction, and then return along a line of force to its commencement; and so two surface sections may be compared. It is manifest that every loop forming a complete circuit, which is in a great plane passing through the axis of the magnet, must have precisely the same lines of force passing into and passing out of it, though they may, so to say, be expanded in one part and compressed in another; or (speaking in the language of radiation) be more intense in one part and less intense in the other. It is also as manifest, that, if the loop be not in one plane, still, on making one complete revolution, either with or without the magnet, it will h"ave intersected in its two opposite parts an exactly equal a9mount of lines of force. 38 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVII1.) Hence the comparison of any one section of a given amount of lines of force with any other section is rendered, experimentally, very extensive. 3111. Such results prove, that, under the circumstances, there is no loss, or destruction, or evanescence, or latent state of the magnetic power by distance. 3112. Also that convergence or divergence of the lines of force causes no difference in their amount. 3113. Tlxat obliquity of intersection causes no difference. It is easy so to shape the loop (3110.), that it shall intersect the lines of force directly across at both places of intersection, or directly at one and obliquely at the other, or obliquely in any den gree at both; and yet the result is always the same (3093.). 3114. It is also evident, by the results of the rotation of the wire and magnet (3097. 3106.), that when a wire is moving amnongst equal lines (or in a field of equal magnetic force), and with an uniform motion, then the current of electricity produced is proportionate to the time; and also to the velocity of motion, 3115. They also prove, generally, that the quantity of electricity thrown into a current is directly as the armoiunt of curves intersected. 3116. In addition to these results, this method of investigation gives much insight into the internal condition of the magnet, and the manner in which the lines of force (which represent truly all that we are acquainted with of the peculiar action of the magnet) either terminate at its exterior, or at any assumed points, to be called poles; or are continued and disposed of within. For this purpose, let us consider the external loop (3093.) of fig. 5. When revolving with the magnet no current is produced, because the lines of force which are intersected on the one part, are again intersected in an opposing direction on the other (3110.). But if one part of the loop be taken down the axis of the magnet, and the wire then pass out at the equator (3091.), still the satne absence of effect is produced; and yet it is evident that, external to the magnet, every part of the wire passes through lines of force, which conspire together to produce a current; for all the external lines of force are then intersected by that wire in one revolution (3101.). We must therefore look to the part of the wire within the magnet, for a power equal to that capable of being exerted externally, and we find it in that small portion which represents a radius at the central and equatorial parts. When, in fact, the axial part of the wire was rotated it produced no effect (3095.); when the axial, the inner radial, and the external parts were revolved togetherL, they produced no effect; when the external wire alone was revolved, directly, it produced a current (3091.); and when the internal radius wire alone (being insulated from the magnet) revolved, directly, it also produced a current (3095. 3098.) iin the contrary direction to the former; and the two were exactly equal in power; for when both portions of the wire moved together directly, they perfectly compensated each other (3095.). This radius wire may be replaced by the mtagne;t itself (3096. 3118.). ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE WITHIN A MAGNET. 39 3117. So, by this test there exist lines of force within the magnet, of the same nature as those without. What is more, they are exactly equal in amount to those without. rrhey have a relation in direction to those without; and in fact are continuations of them, absolutely unchanged in their nature, so far as the experimental test can be applied to then. Every line of force therefore, at whatever distance it may be taken from the magnet., must be considered as a closed circuit, passing in some part of its course through the magnet, and having an equal amount of force in every part of its course. 3118. When the axial part of the wire is dismissed and the magnet employed in its place, so as to be included in the circuit, it is easy to see how it acts the part of the conductor. For suppose the wire itself to be continued from N to b, fig. 12, by any of the three paths indicated by Fig. 12. dotted lines, the effect is the same in all the cases, both by experiment (3093.) and by principle (3100.). For whatever the form of the path, it will in one revolution intersect the same amount of lines of force within the magnet, as are intersected in the contrary direction by the part of the wire outside the magnet; and when the magnet is employed to complete the circuit in place of the internal wire, then its substance produces precisely the same result; for direction and every other circumstance which influences the result remains the same: one conductor has simply been. substituted for another. The great mass of the magnet might be supposed able'to do something more than the thin wire, but the reason why it only equals it in effect will be seen hereafter (3137.). And as the axial wire, in revolving, does nothing but conduct (3095.), all the effect being produced by that part which represents a radius between the axis and the equator (3098.) ; so the magnet, revolving as a cylinder, is as to its mass like the revolving wire; with the exception of so much of it as represents a radius connecting together the two points at the pole or axis and at the equator, where communication with the wire is completed. As was shown long ago (220.), if a cylinder magnet be revolved, and the ends of the galvanometer wires a c be applied to the extremities of its axis, no current is evolved; but if a be applied to one end, it matters not which and c be applied at the equator or any other part on the surface of the cylinder, a current always in the same direction for the same rotation will be produced. 3119. Further to prove these points, the magnets were cut in half through the equatorial plane, and then, either a disc of copper placed there, or a wire radius only, or the magnets brought together again: and these three arrangements were used inl succession to complete the circuit from the axial wire (3095.) to a fixed wire at the surface of the equator. Whichever was employed the current produced was the same, both in direction and amount. If the cylinder maLgnet above described (31 18.) be terminated at the ends by attached discs of silver or copper, the wires applied to their surfaces, as they revolve with the magnet, produce precisely the same currents as to direction as if applied to the surlface of the magnet itself (218. 219.). 40 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) 3120. In this striking disposition of the forces of a magnet, as exhibited by the moving wire, it exactly resembles an electro-magnetic helix, both as to the direction of the lines of force in closed circuits, and in their equal sum within and without. No doubt, the magnet is the most heterogeneous in its nature, being composed, as we are well-aware, of parts which differ much in the degree of their magnetic development; so much so, that some of the internal portions appear frequently to act as keepers or submagnets to the parts which are further from the centre, and so, for the time, to form complete circuits, or something equivalent to them, within. But these make no part of the resultant of force externally, and it is only that resultant which is sensible to us in any way; either by the action on a needle, or other magnets, or soft iron, or the moving wire. So also the power which is manifest within the magnet by its effect on the moving mass, is still only that same resultant; being equal to, and by polarity and other qualities, identical with it. No doubt, there are cases, as upon the approach of a keeper to the poles, or the approximation of other magnets, either in favourable or adverse positions, when more external force is developed, or it may be a portion apparently thrown inwards and so the external force diminished. But in these cases, that which remains externally existent, corresponds precisely to that which is the resultant internally; for when either the same, or contrary poles, of a powerful horseshoe magnet were placed within an inch and a half of the poles of the bar magnets, prepared to rotate with the attached wires (3092.), as before described, still, -upon their revolution, not the slightest action at the galvanometer was perceived; the forces within the magnet and those without perfectly compensating each other. 3121. The definite character of the forces of an invariable magnet, at whatever distance they are observed from the magnet, has been already insisted upon (3109.). How much more strikingly does that point come forth now, that, being able to observe within the magnet, we find the sanme definite character there; every section of the forces, whether within or without the magnet, being exactly of the same amount! The power of a magnet may therefore be easily represented by the effects of any section of its lines of force; and as the currents induced by two different magnets may easily be conducted through one wire, or be, in other ways, compared to each other, so facilities may thus arise for the establishment of a standard amongst magnets. 3122. On the other hand, the use of the idea of lines offorce, which I recommend, to represent the true and real magnetic forces, makes it very desirable that we should find a unit of such force, if it can be attainable, by any experimental arrangement, just as one desires to have a unit for rays of light or heat. It does not seem to me improbable that further research will supply the means of establishing a standard of this kind. In the mean time, for the enlargement of the utility of the idea in relation to the magnetic force, and to indicate its conditions graphically, lines may be employed as representing these units in any given case. I have so employed them in former series of these Researches (2807. 2821. 2831. 2874. &c.), where the direction of thle line of force is shown at once, and the relative amount of force, or^ of lines of LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-THICK WIRE GALVANOMETER. 41 force in a given space, indicated by their concentration or separation, i. e. by their number in that space. Such a use of unit lines involves, I believe, no error either in the direction of the polarity or in the amount of force indicated at any given spot included in the diagrams. 3123. The currents produced in wires, when they cross lines of magnetic force, are so feeble in intensity (though abundant enough in quantity, as many results show), that a fine wire galvanometer must of necessity offer great obstruction to their passage. Therefore, before entering upon further experimental inquiries, I had another galvanomneter constructed, in which the needles belonging to that made by RUHMKORFF were employed, but the coil was replaced by a single convolution of very stout wire. The wire was of copper, 0-2 of an inch in diameter. It passed horizontally under the lower needle, then, as nearly as might be, between that and the upper needle, over the upper, and then again between that and the lower needle, Fig. 13. fig. 13, and was afterwards attached to the stand, and continued for 19 or 20 feet outside of the glass cover. Such a wire had abundant conducting power; and though it passed but ______ once round each needle, gave a deflection many times greater than that belonging to the former galvanometer. Thus when the ends of the 19 feet of wire were soldered together, so as to form one loop or circuit, the passage of the wire once between the Fig. 14. poles of a horseshoe magnet (3124.), caused a deflection, or rather swing of the needle of above 90?. I have had a more perfect instrument, of the same kind, constructed, in which the conducting coil I was cut out of plates of copper, so as to form a square band 0'2 of an inch in thickness, which passed twice round the vibration plane of each needle, as represented, fig. 14. The length of metal around the needles was 24 inches, and the galvanometer was very sensitive, but the experiments to be described were made chiefly with the former instrument. 3124. It was necessary, first, to ascertain the effect of certain circumstances upon this simple galvanometer, as to their modification of its indications. The magnet to be used was a compound horseshoe instrument, weighing 16 Ibs., and able to support 40 lbs. by the keeper or submagnet. It is some years since it was magnetized, and it is therefore, probably, in a nearly constant state as to power. The poles have the form delineated, fig. 15. Their distance apart is 1,375 inch, and Fig. 15. the distance downwards, from their summit to the -bottom or equator of the magnet, is 8x5 inches. The galvanometer stood in the prolongation of the magnetic axis, i. e. the line fioin j|II" pole to pole, and whether it rere 6 or only 3 feet distant, was MDCCCLII. 0 42 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) hardly at all affected in the time of its vibration, being adjusted so nearly astatic as to require about ten seconds to swing to the right or to the left. 3125. On passing the wire across the magnetic field, as just described (3123.), but with different velocities, effects different in degree were obtained at the galvanorueter, for the reasons formerly given (3104. 3106.). The quickest velocity gave the greatest result, equal at times to 1400, whilst a very slow motion gave only 30? or 400. Still with moderately quick velocities the effects were nearly alike, and by operating with the same velocity, and taking the average of several observations, a very uniform result could be obtained. 3126. On cutting the wire across, and then putting the ends together in various ways, it was found that great care was requisite in making contact, in this or in similar cases. Thus, to press the ends lightly together was not sufficient; they required to be well and recently cleaned and pressed closely into contact. Junctions effected by soldering or dipping into cups of mercury were still better, when made with care, and were employed at the galvanometer and elsewhere as often as possible. 3127. To ascertain generally the obstruction caused by the interposition of thin wires, 28 inches of copper wire, 0'045 of an inch in diameter, were introduced into the circuit at a part away from the magnet, with excellent junctions. The oscillation or swing, which before was 1400 or more, was now reduced to 400. On taking out the wire and replacing it by another, also of copper, but only 19-5 inches in length, and 0,0135 in diameter, the deflection was reduced to 7? or 80. 3128. For a rough comparison of the power of this magnet and the former bar magnets (3085.), by the present galvanonieter, the thick wire was bent into a loop (3086.), and the two bar magnets, with like ends together, passed quickly through it up to the equatorial part; the deflection was about 30?. Such a passage intersected nearly all the lines of force of the bar magnets. A similar motion of the magnets close to, but outside of, the loop, produced no effect at the galvanometer. 3129. In respect of the alteration of the lines of force, either in position or in total amount, by bringing the poles of the horseshoe magnet (3124.) much nearer together, the following experiments were made. The distance between the poles is 1P375 inch; by placing a cube of soft iron, 0-8 of an inch in the side, within this space, it was dinlinished to 0 575, and thus, virtually, the distance apart much lessened, and, as was afterwards shown experimentally (3130.), the external power of the mnagnet concentrated there. Then, whilst the cube was in place, the thick wire of 0'2 of an inch in diameter, was arranged so as to pass across the magnetic axis or place of strongest action, and fixed; after which the iron cube was alternately removed and again restored, and the effects observed. Feeble electric currents were produced at these times but whether the cube was put into its place from below, or above, or the sides, the current produced was always in the same direction; and when it was removed the current produced was in the reverse direction. If the cube were carried up toLINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-WIRES OF DIFFERENT THICKNESSES. 43 by, and away from, the magnetic axis in one motion, then there was no effect at the galvanometer. On the other hand, when the wire was carried across the magnetic field asdescribed (3123.), so as to intersect all the lines of force in one movement, and sum -up their power at the galvanometer, then there was no difference in the result, whether the iron cube was in its place or not; showing, as far as this apparatus could indicate, that the sum of power in the section of all the lines of force external to the magnet, was the same under both circumstances, though the distribution of it was different. 3130. The very action produced by the cube, when in and out of place (3129.), upon the forces which affected the stationary wire, was a proof of the difference of distribution at differenttimes. 3131. A block of bismuth, employed in place of the iron cube, had no sensible effect upon the wire whether it were still or moving. 3132. This galvanometer was first employed for a repetition of all the former experiments with the bar magnets (3091. &c.). The results were absolutely the same, except that the amount of the deviation produced, when deviation was a result, was larger than in the former cases. -3133. For the comparison of different thicknesses of the same metal, I took copper wires in lengths of 10-5 inches, and different diameters, and bending them into loops of a form and size such as would admit them to pass with facility over a pole of the horseshoe magnet, soldered them to the ends of two conducting rods, made of copper wire 0'2 of an inch in diameter and 35 inches in length each, which were fixed on opposite sides of a narrow slip of wood. The whole Fig. 16. arrangement is seen in fig. 16; the tertinations Ho a b dip into the mercurial cups of the galvanob meter, the parts at c are brought so close together as to touch, except for the intervention of a piece of card, and thus the parts from c to a b are thrown out of action, except as mere conductors, whilst the loop, being made to descend over one magnetic pole, intersects very nearly the whole of the magnetic curves, and always the same proportion. 3134. The former magnet was too powerful for comparative experiments, therefore a smaller one was employed, consisting of five plates, weighing 8 lbs. and able to carry 21 lbs. easily at the keeper. The poles were 1P2 inch apart and an inch thick each in the direction of the magnetic axis. If less magnetic power were required, an adjustment was easily made,by applying the keeper to the side upon both linmbs, the magnetic communication being effected either nearer to the poles, or nearer to the equator or bend, as less or more power was required. The descent of the loop between the poles is then best regulated by causing the conductor wires to bear ultimately against a stopping-block. G 2 44 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIIi.) 3135. The effect of a quick and a slow motion was found to be the same as before (3104. 3105.). Such velocities as the band could impart were very effectual, and gave results of very considerable uniformity when quick motions were employed. 3136. Three different loops were compared together, consisting of copper wire, the diameters of which were 0,2, 0 1 and 0 05 of an inch, or as 4, 2 and I ; their sectional areas or masses therefore were as 16, 4 and 1. Ten or twelve observations were made with each loop; the results were near together, and the average for each loop, being the extent of the swing declination on one side from zero, is as follows:Copper wire of -1-th of an inch in thickness . . . . . 160.00 Copper wire of -clth of an inch in thickness . . * . 440A40 Copper wire of 5th of an inch in thickness . . . . . 570.37 Now though the thicker wires produced the largest effect, the results were evidently not at all in proportion to the masses of the wires; the smaller having greatly the advantage in that respect. On the other hand, when four of the smaller wires were placed side by side, so as to form one loop equal in mass to the second loop, it gave the same result as that loop, being of the same power. 3137. The disproportion of the difference of these three wires is evidently a consequence of the relative difference of the mere conducting part of the circuit. To compare accurately the effect of the lines of force on wires of diffeient diameters moving across them, these diameters should continue to, and through the galvanometer (205.), otherwise the thin wire current has an advantage given to it in the conducting part, which the thick wire current has not. Hence the reason why a thin wire galvanometer, such as that before described (3086.), gives results which are alike, for thick or thin wire loops, or for fasciculi of few or many wires. To enlarge the comparison, I soldered onl to two pairs of conductors, the dimensions of those described (3133.), two cylinders of copper, each 5-5 inches long, but one was only 0-2 of an inch thick and the other 0-7, or Fig. 17. twelve times the mass of the first, fig. 17. They m were then passed in succession between the poles of the magnet, and gave results very nearly alike. If there was any difference, the effect was highest with the smallest cylinder; and this may very well be; for as the magnetic field was not equal in force, but most intense in the magnetic axis, so it is evident, that whilst one part of the large cylinder, in passing across, was at the axis, other parts were in places of less intense force and action, and so a return current may have existed in them, which could not occur to the same extent in a cylinder little more than a fourth of the diameter of the former, and which, at the same time, had an outlet for the currents equal to its own diameter, through the conducting wires. A similar relation of mass occurs in the case where the body of the magnet itself, in revolving, does no more than a small radial wire within it (3118.). LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-WIRES OF DIFFERENT THICKNESSES. 45 3138. The influence of this lateral conduction (3137.), in cases of magneto-electric conduction, must be well understood; otherwise, in the application of the principles to investigation, errors will frequently creep in. Their effect may be shown in the following instances:-a loop of four wires, 0'048 of an inch in diameter (3136.), was passed over the pole of the magnet,. and produced a certain result of deflection oir swing; when the wires were separated two and two, so as to be half or three-quarters of an inch apart, and when, therefore, in moving across the magnetic field, one pair went before the others, the effect was less, for the reason already given in the case of the copper cylinder (3137.). When three wires were allowed to go by together, but one taken aside a couple of inches, the effect fell very much; and when that fourth one was cut across to prevent the return current in it, the effect of the three rose at the galvanometer very greatly, almost equalling the effect of the four when together. 3139. A loop was constructed of seventy-six equal fine copper wires, each 10-5 inches long and 00 125 of an inch in diameter, and its effect observed when more and more of the wires were cut away. As it is the comparison of the smaller numbers of wires, one with the other, that is of most value, I will give the averages of each number for several observations, in the reverse order in which they were obtained; and I introduce the results with larger numbers of wires only for the general purpose of showing how the effect passes into that with the cylinder of copper (3137.), the galvanoineter conductors always being of the same length and thickness. 0 1 wire produced an average swing of. 83 2 wires produced an average swing of .15'3 3 wires produced an average swing of. 21 8 4 wires produced an average swing of .27-9 5 wires produced an average swing of .34.4 6 wires produced an average swing of .37'8 8 wires produced an average swing of . 50'1 12 wires produced an average swing of .65'1 16 wirtes produced an average swing of .80'5 26 wires produced an average swing of .1 18'0 36 almost swung the needle round. 46 stronger than the last. 56 swung the needle quite round. 66 a little stronger. 76 stronger: swung the needle freely round the circle. Each time that the needle passed 1800, it was returned, that the torsion force mights remain the same for every case. 3140. When the loop of four equal wires (3136.) was employed, so arranged that, in respect of the part which passed between the poles, they should be close together in one plane, it made no difference in the result, whether that plane was perpendicularm 46 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) to the magnetic axis or parallel to it; i. e. whether the wires in moving, formed a band which moved edgeways or flat ways; the results were the same as with the four wires close together, so as to represent, as far as they could, a round or square wire. 3141. From all these results it may be concluded, that the current or amount of electricity evolved in the wire moving amongst the lines of force, is not, simply, as the space occupied by its breadth correspondent to the direction of the line of force, which has relation to the polarity of the power, nor by that width or dimension of it which includes the number or amount of the lines of force, and which, corresponding to the direction of the motion, has relation to the equatorial condition of the lines; but is jointly as the compound ratio of the two, or as the mass of the moving wire. Tfhe power acts just as well on the interior portions of the wire as on the exterior or superficial portions, and a central particle, surrounded on all sides by copper, is just in the same relation to the force as those which, being superficial, have air next them on one side. 3142. By immersing the poles of the magnet in different media, and then making comparative experiments with the same copper wire loop (3145.), it was found that the amount of the induced current was the same in air, water, alcohol and oil of turpentine. The experiments in air were repeated between those with the liquids, so as to give a very consistent and safe result as to the equality of action in all the cases. 3143. The effect of variation of substance was the next subject which seemed to me important to bring under investigation, because it has a direct relation to the amount of force exerted, or ready to be exerted, within solid bodies, at any distance from the magnet, in situations and under circumstances where it was absolutely impossible to apply the vibrations of a, magnetic needle, or any other form of the effects of attractive and repulsive forces. The interior of such bodies as iron, copper, bismuth, mercury, &c., including the most paramagnetie and the most diamagnetic, seemed, in this way, open to experimental investigation, both as to the amount of lines of force traversing them under various circumstances, and also as to the direction of the lines or their polarity. 3144. In an early series of these Researches*, experiments bearing upon this subject are described (205-213.). Wires of different metals were moved across the lines of force of a magnet, and the result arrived at was, that the currents induced in these different bodies were proportional to their electro-conducting power (202. 213.). 3145. The thick wire galvanometer (3123.), with its good and short conducting communications, promised however better results, and therefore loops like those already described of copper wire (3133.), were prepared with wires of different metals, all of the same diameter, , namely, 0'04 of an inch, being only 1-th of the sub-stance of the conducting and galvanometer wire. The metals were copper, silver, iron, tin,* Philosophical Transactions, 1832, pp. 179-182. LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-WIRES OF DIFFERENT SUBSTANCES. 47 lead, platinum, zinc. Under these circumstances the substance concerned in the excitement of the current is made to vary, whilst the conducting part of the system is very good and remains the same. The results with these loops were as follows, being the average of from six to ten experiments for each loop: Copper .63 O Silver ..61L9 Zinc ... 315 Tin. .. 191 Iron . .8 0 Platinum... 169 Lead... 121 3146. In order to dismiss, as much as possible, the obstruction caused by bad conducting power, and bring out any difference that might exist between paramagnetic and diamagnetic metals, three metals were selected, namely, tin, iron and lead in wires, as before, of 004 of an inch diameter; but the length was restricted to 3 inches, instead of extending to 10-5 inches, and the rest of the loop was made up of the conducting copper wire of 02 in diameter, as in fig. 18. Fig. 18. Of course, the effect of the whole loop is a mixed A effect, being partly due to the power represented by the lines intersected by the thick copper portion, and partlv by ti ose intersected by the three inches of special wire passing between the poles. But as the great amount of force is concentrated within a space not more than an inch and a half or 2 inches in extent (as is seen on carrying any of the loops across the magnetic axis), and as eveen that could be made still more concentrated by using the iron cube (3129.), and so bringing the poles virtually nearer to each other, it was hoped that the chief effect would be there, and so any peculiar difference existing between iron on the one hand and tin and lead on the other, be rendered manifest, especially as the resistance to conduction was greatly diminished by shortening the wires from 10-5 to 3 inches. 3147. The many experiments made with each metal were very close together. The average of the results for the three metals was as follows:Tin .37-1 Iron .34.8 Lead .25,4 The proportions, and therefore the results, are almost identical with those obtained before (3145.).3148. When lead and copper, arranged at the bar magnets (3084. 3085.), had been compared in former experiments with each other by the fine wire galvanoineter, the results for both had been the same. But then the two wires used wrer e short, and 48 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) far thicker than the wires of the galvanometer or of the conducting circuit, and were therefore limited in the production of their peculiar action, by those circumstances of mass already described (3137.). To show that that was the case, I now, with the thick wire galvanometer, employed two equal loops of copper and iron wire, 0'2 of an inch in thickness, fig. 16 (3133.), passing them equably over the pole of the small horseshoe magnet, reduced by the keeper (3134.). The results were very consistent, and the mean of them was, for 0 Copper. 417 Iron 33'7 3149. Here, therefore, the difference between copper and iron is not so great as that of 1 to 1-24; whilst when the conductors, not concerned in the excitement, were very good, and able, comparatively, to carry on to the galvanometer nearly all the effect of the excitement, it was as great as 1 to 3Se, the difference being in the latter case above tenfold what it is in the former. 3150. To raise the effect dependent upon the mass in relation to that of the conducting wires to a still higher degree, I had a cylinder of iron, 5'5 inches in length and 0-7 of an inch in diameter, soldered on to the ends of conducting wires, so as to be in all respect like that of copper before described (3137.). In this case the iron not only rose up to the copper in effect, but even surpassed it; the results being for copper 35? 66, and for iron 38?'32. Thus, under these circumstances of mass, the difference between iron and copper disappears. The apparent inferiority of copper is probably due to the lateral discharge, which before reduced the effect of a cylinder below that of a thick wire (3137.). The iron being a worse conductor in itself, and having equally good conductors in the prolongation of the circuit as when it was employed as wire, would, I think, have proportionately less lateral discharge in it than the copper. 3151. For a comparison, both as regards the particular substance and the mass, I attached a similar cylinder of bismuth to conductors. Its effect, with the same magnet and force, was 230; a very high proportion in relation to the copper, and no doubt due to its mass. If it could have been compared as a wire, only 0'04 in diameter (3145.), it would probably have appeared almost indifferent (3127.) *. 3152. So the current of electricity excited in different substances, moving across lines of magnetic force, appears to be directly as the conducting power of the substance. It appears to have no particular reference to the magnetic character of the body, for iron comes betweentin and platinum, presenting no other distinction than * When bismuth is soldered into the circuit, it requires to be left a long time before it is used for experiments, and should then be covered up, and the loop handled with great care; otherwise thermo-currents are produced. For an hour or two after soldering it generates electrical currents, which appear at the galvanometer very irregularly, being probably due to internal molecular changes, which occur from time to time until the whole has acquired a permanent state of equilibrium. LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-MAGNETIC POLARITY. 49 that due to conducting power, and differing far less from them, than they do from other metals not magnetic. 3153. The amount of lines offorce (and of the force represented by them) appears, therefore, to be equal for equal spaces occupied by tin, iron, and platina under the circumstances; for the difference in result is in no proportion to the ordinary magnetic difference, and only as the conducting power. This agrees with the conclusion before arrived at, that, for air, water, bismuth, oxygen, nitrogen, or a vacuum, the lines of force are the same in amount, except as they are more or less concentrated in the substance across which they pass (2807.), according as it is more or less competent to conduct (2797.) or transmit the magnetic force. 3154. Such a conclusion as that just arrived at, brings on the question of what is magnetic polarity, and how is it to be defined ? For my own part, I should understand the term to mean, the opposite and antithetical actions which are manifested at the opposite ends, or the opposite sides, of a limited (or unlimited) portion of a line of force (2835.). The line of dip of the earth, or a part of it, may again be referred to as the natural case; and a free needle above or below the part, or a wire moving across it (3076. 3079.), will give the direction of the polarity. If we refer to an entirely different and artificial standard as the electromagnetic helix. the same meaning and description will apply. 3155. If the term polarity have any meaning, which has reference to experimental facts and not to hypotheses only, beyond that included in the above description, I am not awSare that it has ever been distinctly and clearly expressed. It may be so, for I dare not venture to say that I recollect all I have read, or even all the conclusions I myself have at different times come to. But if it neither have, nor should have, any other meaning, then the question arises, is it correctly exhibited or indicated in every case by attractions and repulsions, i. e. by such like mutual action of particular bodies on each other under the magnetic influence? A weak solution of protosulphate of iron, if surrounded by water, will, in the magnetic field, point axially; if in a stronger solution than itself, it will point equatorially (2357. 2366. 2422.). The same is true with stronger cases. We cannot doubt it will be true even up to iron, nickel, and cobalt, if we could render these bodies fluid in turn without altering their paramagnetic power, or if we had the command of magnets and of paramagnetic and diamagnetic media, stronger or weaker at pleasure. But in the case of the solutions, we cannot suppose that the weaker has one polarity in the stronger solution and another in the water. The lines of force across the magnetic field have the same general polarity in all the cases, and would be shown experimentally to have it, by the moving wire (3076.), though not by the attractions and repulsions. 3156. Here, therefore, we have a difference in the two modes of experimental indication; not merely as to the method, but as to the nature of the results, and the very MDCCCLII. 50 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) principles which are concerned in their production. Hence the value I think of the moving wire as an investigator; for it leads us into inquiries which touch upon the very nature of the magnetic force. There is no doubt that the needle gives true experimental indications; but it is not so sure that we always interpret them correctly. To assume that pointing is always the direct effect of attractive and repulsive forces acting in couples (as in the cases in question, or as in bismuth crystals), is to shut out ideas, in relation to magnetism, which are already applied in the theories of the nature of light and electricity; and the shutting out of such ideas may be an obstruction to the advancement of truth and a defence of wrong assumptions and error. 3157. What is the idea of polarity in a field of equal force ? (whether it be occupied by air or by a mass of soft iron?) A magnetic needle, or an oblong piece of iron, would not show it in the air or elsewhere, except by disturbing the equal arrangeinent of the force and rendering it unequal; for on that the pointing of the needle or the iron, or the motions of either towards the walls of the magnetic field, if limited (2828.), would depend. A crystal of bismuth in showing this polarity by position (2464. 2839.), does it without much altering the distribution of the force, and the alteration which does take place is in the contrary direction to that effected by iron (2807.), for it expands the lines of force. It seems readily possible that a inagnecrystal might exist, which, when in its stable position, should neither cause the convergence nor divergence of the lines of force within it. It need only be neutral in relation to space or any surrounding medium in that direction, and diamagnetic in its relation in the transverse direction, and the conditions would be fulfilled. 3158. But though an ordinary magnetic needle* cannot show polarity in a field of equal force, having no reference to it, and in fact ignoring such a condition of things, i moving wire makes it manifest instantly, and also shows the full amount of magnetic power to which such polarity belongs; and this it does without disturbing the distribution of the power, as far as we comprehend or understand distribution, when thinking of magnetic needles. At least such at present appears to me to be the case, from the consideration of the action of thin and thick wires (3141.) and wires of different substances (3 153.). 3159. As an experimentalist, I feel bound to let experiment guide me into any train of thought which it may justify; being satisfied that exFig. 19. periment, like analysis, must lead to strict truth if rightly interpreted; and believing also, that it is in its nature far more suggestive of new trains of thought and new conditions of natural power. In order to extend its indications, and vary the form in which the principle of the moving wire may be applied, I had an apparatus constructed, fig. 19, consisting of a wooden axis, one extremity of which was terminated by a copper screw, One could easily imagine hypothetically a needle that should do so. LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-MAGNETIC POLARITY. 51 intended to receive and carry one or more discs of metal that might be screwed on to it. This end projected so far beyond the support, that such discs could be partly introduced between the poles of a horseshoe magnet, so as when revolving, to move across the lines of force at their most intense place of action; and, whilst the magnet and the apparatus continued fixed, to l evolve continuously across the samne lines of force. One of the galvanometer wires was pointed, and so held as to bear into and against the surface of a cup-shaped cavity at the end of the axial screw; and the other was applied by the hand, or so fixed as to bear by a rounded part against the rim of the disc, at that point which was furthest within the poles of the magnet. 3160. Discs of metal were prepared for this apparatus, each 2"a inches in diameter, and of different thicknesses and material. When a disc of copper was fixed on the axis, and adjusted in association with the large horseshoe magnet (3159.), as described above, three, or even two revolutions of it, would deflect the needle of the thick wire galvanometer through a swing of 300. In this apparatus, the most effectual part of the portion of the disc which is at any moment passing across the magnetic axis, is that which is near the circumference; for it has the greatest velocity, consequently moves through more space, and that in a part where the lines of force are most concentrated. 3161. The contact at the end of the axle should always be carefully watched and made good. The degree of pressure on the edge of the disc should not be too slight; otherwise the contact, under the circumstances of the motion, is not sufficient to carry forward the same constant proportion of current generated. Neither should it be made at the angles of the disc edge; if a grating or cutting friction occur, an electric current is generated by it. With a smooth hard friction of copper wire against the copper disc there is very little evolution of current. When the copper wire presses against the edge of an iron disc there is far more. In either case, however, the effect may be eliminated or compensated; for, in whichever direction the disc is revolved without the magnet, the deviation of the needle, if any be produced, remains the same; whereas, when the magnet is in place, the deviations produced by it are in the reversed direction for reversed revolutions. Hence, if an equal number of revolutions be made in the two directions, and the unequal deflections in opposite directions be noted, the half of their sum will give nearly the amount of deflection which would have occurred if no current had been exerted by friction at the edge, i. e. provided the deflections have not been through large arcs. These effects of friction are no doubt objections to the principle in this formt; still the results are, as it appears to me, valuable in relation to copper and iron, and are as follows. 3162. A copper disc, 005 of an inch in thickness, gave a swing deflection for two revolutions, which, being the average of several experiments, =20?8. A second copper disc, of 0-1 of an inch in thickness, gave an average deflection of 27?8. A third copper disc, of 0i2 in thickness, gave a deflection of 26? 5. Here, therefore, ii2 52 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) not only has the thickness -(with these conditions of contact) been attained for the maximum effect, but even surpassed (3137.). Then an iron disc of 0 05 in thickness, was placed on the axle, and gave, as its mean result, a deflection of 150.4. Another iron disc of four times the thickness (or 0 2) gave a deflection only of 140. So here also, as before, the thickness of maximum effect had been surpassed. 3163. The two discs of copper and iron of 0-2 in thickness each, which had produced separately the respective deviations of 260.5 and 14', were then both fixed on the axle, being separated from mutual contact in respect of their mass, by a disc of paper, though both were of course in contact at the centre of motion with the copper axlejby means of which the electric communication was perfected. In arranging their place between the poles of the magnet, the iron was placed at mid-distance, and therefore the copper a little on one side. When the copper disc was brought into the clircuit, it, by two revolutions, gave an average deviation of 230.4; and when the iron disc was in the circuit, the deviation produced by it was 1 1091. Here, therefore, the proportions were nearly the same, when the two discs were subject at the same moment to the magnetic power, as when they were examined separately. Both have fallen a little, but not in any manner which seems to indicate that the iron has had any peculiar influence in altering or affecting the lines of force passing across the magnetic field. The effect which has taken place, appears to be one due to the action of the collateral mass of conducting matter. 3164. If the direction of the electric current induced by the magnetic force in the moving metal be taken as the true indication of polarity, and, I think, it cannot be denied that it represents that character of the force, which the term polarity is intended to express, and is unchangeably associated with that character; then these results show that the polarity of the lines of force within the iron is the same with that within the copper, when both are submitted in like manner to the magnetic force. In association with the former and new results with bismuth (2431. 3151. 3168.), and numerous other phenomena, the same conclusion may be drawn as to the lines of force within that substance, for the effects are the same with regard to the production of a current in it; and so further evidence is added to that which I have given, tending to show that bismuth is not polarized in the reverse direction as iron or a magnet (2429. 2640.). By reference to the phenomena presented by the relative actions of paramagnetic and diamagnetic substances, the same conclusions may be drawn with respect to all bodies and to space itself (2787. &c.). 3165. That the iron disc affects the disposition of the lines offorce, is no doubt true, and the extent to which this is done is easily seen, by fixing a small magnetic needle, about 0-1 or 005 of an inch in length, across the middle of a piece of stretched thread as an axis, and then bringing it into the magnetic field and near the edges of the stationary disc. The lines of force will be seen (3071. 3076.) gathering in upon the iron at and near its edge, but only for a very little distance from it in any direction: the effect is that which I have considered proper to a paraLINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE-MAGNETIC POLARITY. 53 magnetic body (2807.). Elsewhere, the lines of force go with the same direction across the magnetic field where the iron is, as where it is not; and it is to me a proved fact, proved by the numerous results given, that a section of the lines of force taken across the magnetic field through the air, where there is no iron, is exactly equal in amount of force to a section taken across parallel to and through the iron disc (3163.). All iron under induction must have just as much force, i. e. lines of force in its internal parts, as is equivalent to the lines which fall on to, and are continued through and out of it; and the same is true, as it appears to me, of any other paramagnetic or diamagnetic substance whatever. The same is truefor the magnet itself; for a section through the magnet has been shown to be exactly equal to a section anywhere through the outer lines of force (3121.), and these sections may be taken at the surface of the magnet, where they may be considered as either in the air or in the magnet indifferently; and therefore alike in size, shape, power, polarity, and every other point. 3166. 1 have used the phrase conduction polarity on a former occasion (2818.2835.), but so limited, that it could lead to no mistake of my meaning, either then or now. It requires no words to show how it is included in the higher and general expression of the direction or polarity of the lines of force. 3167. Some other results with the disc apparatus (3159.) were obtained, which it may be useful to describe here. Tin was formed into a disc of 0 1 in thickness, and 2-5 inches in diameter. The effect of the friction of the copper conductor at its edge, was a feeble current, the reverse of that produced in the cases of copper and iron (3161.); but the current produced by the revolution, and dependent on the polarity of the lines of force, was the same as before. It produced a swing deflection of 14?49 for two revolutions of the disc. 3168. A disc of bismuth produced far too strong a current by friction against the copper conductor, to allow of any useful result in its simple state. A ring of copper foil was therefore formed, and being placed tightly on the bismuth disc, was wedged up by plates of clean copper foil, so as to produce a clean hard contact; imperfect, no doubt, but as general as could be made uinder the circumstances. When this disc was rotated in the one direction, it gave a deflection in the same direction as if a copper or iron disc had been used; when rotated the other way, the deflection was little or nothing. This difference is due to the united influence of the rotation effect and the friction effect in the one case, and their opposition in the other; but the results show that the lines of force are in the same direction through bismuth, where between the magnetic poles, as they are through copper and iron. The induced current is smnall, both because of the bad conducting power of the bismuth and the imperfect contact at the edge. When the same copper rim was placed on the copper disc, it reduced the deflection of the needle from 26? 5 to 90?34. 54 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) 3169. In illustration of the effect produced by those parts of the disc, which, not being in the place of greatest action, are conducting back those currents formed by the radial parts in the place of maximum effect, I had a wooden disc constructed, 0-2 in thickness and 2-5 inches in diameter, the centre of which was copper, for the purpose of attachment and electrical connection, and the outer edge a ring of copper not more than -1th of an inch in thickness. The two were connected by a single copper wire radius, in thickness 0-056 of an inch, which, as the disc revolved, was of course carried across and through the magnetic field. It gave a deflection of 140. Tfhe copper disc of 0 05 thickness gave only an average of 280. Now, though the matter of the copper ring round the wood will cause part of the current, yet the chief portion must be due to the copper radius, which, at the effectual part near the edge (3160.), is not more than the 140th part of the full copper disc; and this indicates how much of the electricity put in motion there by the magnetic force must be returned back in short circuits in the other parts of the disc. 3170. The disc apparatus shows well the dependence of the induced current upon the intersection of the lines of force (3082. 3113.). If the disc be so arranged as to stand edgeways to the magnetic poles, and in the plane of the magnetic axis, so that it shall be parallel to the lines of force which pass by and through it, then no revolution of it, with the most powerful magnet, produces the slightest signs of a current at the galvanometer. 3171. The relation of the induced current to the electro-conducting power of the substance, amongst the metals (3152.), leads to the presumption that with other bodies, as water, wax, glass, &c., it is absent, only in consequence of the great deficiency of conducting power. I thought that processes analogous to those employed with the metals, might in such non-conductors as shell-lac, sulphur, &c., yield some results of static electricity (181. 192.) ; and have made many experiments with this view in the intense magnetic field, but without any distinct result. 3172. All the results described are those obtained with moving metals. But mere motion would not generate a relation, which had not a foundation in the existence of some previous state; and therefore the quiescent metals must be in some relation to the active centre of force, and that not necessarily dependent on their paramagnetic or diamagnetic condition, because a metal at zero, in that respect, would have an electric current generated in it as well as the others. The relation is not as the attractions or repulsions of the metals, and therefore not magnetic in the common sense of the word; but according to some other function of the power. Iron, copper, and bismuth are very different in the former sense, but when moving across the lines of force, give the same general result, modified only by electro-conducting power. 3173. If such a condition be hereafter verified by experiment, and the idea of an electrotonic state (60. 242. 1114. 1661. 1729.) be revived and established, then, such ON THE LINES OF MAGNETIC FORCE. 55 bodies as water, oil, resin, &c., will probably be included in the same state; for the non-conducting condition, which prevents the formation of a current in them, does not militate against the existence of that condition which is prior to the effect of Motion. A piece of copper, which cannot have the current, because it is not in a circuit (3087.), and a piece of lac, which cannot, because it is a non-conductor of electricity, may have peculiar but analogous states when moving across a field of magnetic power. 3174. On bringing this paper to a close, I cannot refrain from again expressing my conviction of the truthfulness of the representation, which the idea of lines of force affords in regard to magnetic action. All the points which are experimentally established with regard to that action, i. e. all that is not hypothetical, appear to be well and truly represented by it. Whatever idea we employ to represent the power, ought ultimately to include electric forces, for the two are so related that one expression ought to serve for both. In this respect, the idea of lines of force appears to me to have advantages over the method of representing magnetic forces by centres of action. In a straight wire, for instance, carrying an electric current, it is apparently impossible to represent the magnetic forces by centres of action, whereas the lines of force simply and truly represent them. Tre study of these lines has, at different titnes, been greatly influential in leading lUe to various results, which I think prove their utility as well as fertility. Tfhus, the law of magneto-electric induction (I114.); the earth's inductive action (149. 161. 171.) the relation of magnetism and light (2146. and note); diamagnetic action and its law (2243.), and mnagnecrystallic action (2454.), are cases of this kind: and a similar influence of them, over my mind, will be seen in the further instances of the polarity of diamawnetic bodies (2640.); the relation of magnetic curves and the evolved electric currents (243.); the explication of ARAGO'S phenomenon (81.), and the distinction between that and ordinary magnetism (243. 245.); the relation of electric and magnetic forces (1709.); the views regarding magnetic conduction (2797.), and atmospheric magnetisin (2847.) I have been so accustomned, indeed, to etnploy them, and especially in my last Researches, that I may, unwittingly, have become prejudiced in their favour, and ceased to be a clear-sighted judge. Still, I have always endeavoured to make experiment the test and controler of theory and opinion; bat neither by that nor by close cross examination in principle, have I been made aware of any error involved in their use. 3175. Whilst writing this paper, I perceive, that, in the late Series of these Researches, Nos. XXV. XXVI. XXVII., I have sometimes used the term lines ofjbrce so vaguely, as to leave the reader doubtful whether I intended it as a merely representative idea of the forces, or as the description of the path along which the power was continuously exerted. What I have said in the beginning of this paper (3075.) will render that matter clear. I have as yet found no reason to wish any part of those papers altered except these doubtful expressions: biut thiat will be rectified if 56 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES XXVIII.) it be understood, that, wherever the expression line offorce is taken simply to represent the disposition of the forces, it shall have the fullness of that meaning; but that wherever it may seem to represent the idea of the physical mode of transmission of the force, it expresses in that respect the opinion to which I incline at present. The opinion may be erroneous, and yet all that relates or refers to the disposition of the force will remain the same. 3176. The value of the moving wire or conductor, as an examiner of the magnetic forces, appears to me very great, because it touches the physics of the subject in a manner altogether different to the magnetic needle. It not only gives its indications upon a different principle and in a different manner, but in the mutual action of it and the source of power, it affects the power differently. The wire when quiescent does not sensibly disturb the arrangement of the force in the magnetic field; the needle when present does. When the wire is moving it does not sensibly disturb the forces external to it, unless perhaps in large masses, as in the discs (3163.), or when time is concerned (1730.), i. e. it does not disturb the disposition of the whole force, or the arrangement of the lines of force; a field of equal magnetic power is still equal to anything but the' moving wire, whilst the wire moves across or through it. The moving wire also indicates quantity of force, independent of tension (2870.); it shows that the quantity within a magnet and that outside is the same, though the tension be very different. In addition to these advantageous points, the principle is available within magnets, and paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies, so as to have an application beyond that of the needle, and thus give experimental evidence, of a nature not otherwise attainable. Royal Institution, October 9, 1851. 