[485] XXXI. A Second Paper concerning some Barometrical Measures in the Mines of the Hartz. By Mr. John Andrew De Luc, F. R. S. Read June 10, 1779. T H E Royal Society having been pleased to accept the communication which I had the honour to make to it two years since of certain barometrical experiments in the mines of the Hartz, I take the liberty of communicating to it some others of them, which I made the last year in one of the deepest of the mines in those mountains, named the Deep St. John. It Second Memoire sur des Mesures Barometriques dans les Mines du Hartz. Par Mons. De Luc, F. R. S. L A Societe Royale ayant bien voulu agreer la communication que j'eus l'honneur de lui faire il y a deux ans de quelques experiences du barometre dans les mines du Hartz, je prends la liberte de lui en communiquer d'autres, que je fis l'annee derniere dans une des mines les plus profondes de ces montagnes, nommee le Profond St. Jean. VOL. LXIX. S s s Ce 486 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures It was on the 5th of July that I went down into it. I had been informed that I might not perhaps be able to arrive at the lowest galleries because of the foul air which had been there all the preceding days. Some miners therefore went before to examine how far we might go down without danger. Mr. USLAR, who had been so kind as to accompany me to the mines of Ramelsberg, was also pleased to be of this party, as well as Mr. FREDERIC, one of the officers of the mines, a gentleman well skilled in subterraneous geometry. And whilst we were under ground Mr. MAYER, one of the clerks of the office of the mines, observed his barometer above ground every quarter of an hour. It had been fine weather for some days, and that day it was particularly so; and Mr. MAYER perceived no variation Ce fut le 5~ Juillet que j'y descendis. On me prevint que je ne pourrois peutetre pas arriver jusqu'aux galeries les plus basses a cause des moussettes, dont il y avoit eu tous les jours precedens. Quelques mineurs prirent donc les devants pour examiner jusqu'a ou nous pourrions descendre sans danger. Mons. DE USLAR, qui avoit eu la bonte de me conduire aux mines du Ramelsberg, voulut bien encore etre de cette partie, de meme que Mr. FREDERIC, l'un des officiers mineurs, tres au fait de la geometrie souterraine. Et tandis que nous fumes dans l'interieur de la terre, Mr. MAYER, l'un des officiers du bureau des mines, observa son barometre chaque quart d'heure a l'exterieur. Il faisoit fort beau depuis quelques jours, et ce jour la en particulier; et Mr. MAYER n'appercut aucune variation dans son barometre de 4 h. a 9 h. du soir: 4 ce in the Mines of the Hartz. 487 riation in his barometer from four to nine o'clock at night, which, at that height, indicated the greatest stability in the state of the air in all other respects, excepting for the ordinary variations of the diurnal heat. Had it been on the Plain, the immobility of the barometer, in that part of the day, would have indicated that it had a tendency to descend. I shall not dwell on the cause of this difference, which results from that of the heights; I have explained it in my work on the atmosphere. It was 43/4 h. when I made, at the entrance of the mine, the first observation of the barometer and of the thermometer which accompanies it; and at the bottom of the first ladder, that of the detached thermometer. Continuing to descend we arrived at 51/2 h. towards the middle of the depth of the mine, near the beginning of a gallery ce qui, a cette hauteur, marquoit la plus grande stabilite dans l'etat de l'air, a tout autre egard que pour les variations ordinaires de la chaleur diurne. A la Plaine, l'immobilite du Barometre dans cette partie du jour, eut marque qu'il tendoit a descendre. Je ne m'arreterai pas a la cause de cette difference, qui resulte de celle des hauteurs; je l'ai expliquee dans mon ouvrage sur l'atmosphere. Il etoit 43/4 h. lorsque je fis a l'entree de la mine la premiere observation du barometre et du thermometre qui l'accompagne; et au bas de la premiere echelle celle du thermometre detache. Continuant a descendre, nous arrivames a 51/2 h. vers le milieu de la profondeur de la mine, aupres du commencement d'une S s s 2 galerie 488 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures a gallery named the George, where I made an observation at 53/4 h. The miners who had gone before us, having come back from the bottom of the mine, reported that the vapours were dissipated, and that the air was every where good. So we continued to descend to the place where, for want of a sufficiently deep draining gallery, the water is obliged to be left, although by some extraordinary efforts they had formerly sunk the shaft ten or twelve fathoms deeper. This point is at the level of the eleventh gallery. I observed there at 71/2 h. The air was perfectly wholesome, only a little warmer than at the top of the shaft. In ascending again I repeated the observation at 81/2 h. near the George gallery; the barometer stood then one eighth of a line higher than the first time. On returning galerie nommee George, ou je fis une observation a 53/4 h. Les mineurs qui nous avoient precedes, etant alors de retour du fond de la mine, nous rapporterent que les mouffettes etoient dissipees, et que l'air etoit bon partout. Ainsi nous continuames a descendre jusqu'au point ou, manque d'une galerie d'ecoulement assez profonde, on est oblige de laisser l'eau; quoique, par des efforts, on ait approfondi autre fois le puits de 10 a 12 toises de plus. Ce point est a niveau de l'onzieme galerie. J'y fis l'observation a 71/2 h. L'air y etoit parfaitement sain; seulement il etoit un peu plus chaud que dans le haut du puits. En remontant, je reiterai l'observation a 81/2 h. aupres de la galerie George; ~ barometre s'y tint plus haut d' 1/8 de ligne que la premiere fois. De retour a 9 heure in the Mines of the Hartz. 489 ing to the top of the mine at nine o'clock I observed there again, and found the barometer one sixteenth of a line higher than when I had entered. Combining these observations, which are set down at the end of this paper, I found that the George gallery was 127.15 lachters, or Hartz fathoms, below the entrance of the mine; and that the whole depth was 215.86 lachters, which makes 801 English feet for the first depth, and 1359 for the latter. Mr. USLAR, having taken a memorandum of the places where I had made my observations, afterwards gave me the correspondent geometrical measures. The depth of the George gallery he found to be 127.87 lachters, that is, only four feet more than what I had found by the barometer; but I was much surprised to see that, in the whole 9 heures au haut de la mine, j'y observai encore, et je trouvai le barometre plus haut d' 1/16 de ligne que lorsque j'etois entre. Combinant ces observations, dont les details sont a la fin de ce memoire, je trouvai que la galerie George etoit abaissee de 127,15 lachters, ou toises du Hartz, au dessous de l'entree de la mine; et que la totalite de la profondeur etoit de 215,86 lachters. Ce qui fait 801 pieds Anglois pour la premiere profondeur, et 1359 pour la derniere. Mr. DE USLAR ayant pris note des lieux ou j'avois fait mes observations, me donna ensuite les mesures geometriques correspondentes. La profondeur de la galerie George se trouvoit etre de 127,17 lachters c'est a dire plus grande seuloment ~ e 4 pieds que celle que j'avois trouvee par le barometre: mais je fus bien 3 surpris 490 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures whole depth, the geometric measure exceeded mine by 110 feet. At first I suspected an error in my observation, and I resolved to go down into the mine again. But afterwards, from a comparison of the successive observations, in which the particular construction of the scale of my barometer would have shewn the error, I saw clearly that my observation was well made. I shall not in this place explain the nature of that examination, for fear of being too long; but it is easily deduced from the construction of that scale. I had no longer reason to think, that the barometric measure could in itself differ so much from the geometric measure, since they agreed so well in the middle of the shaft. There remained nothing to be suspected but the geosurpris de voir que sur la profondeur totale, la mesure geometrique excedoit la mienne de 110 pieds. Au premier moment je soupconnai une erreur dans mon observation, et je me resolus de retourner dans la mine. Mais ensuite, par une comparaison des observations successives, dans laquelle la construction particuliere de l'echelle de mon barometre eut fait appercevoir cette erreur, je vis sans aucun doute que mon observation etoit bien notee. Je n'expliquerai pas ici la nature de cet examen, de peur d'etre trop long; mais on le conclura aisement de la construction de cette echelle. Je n'avois point de raison non plus de croire que la mesure barometrique put en elle meme s'ecarter autant de la mesure geometrique; puis qu'elles s'accordoient si bien dans le milieu du puits. Il ne restoit donc a suspecter que la note qui in the Mines of the Hartz. 491 geometric measure which had been given me, and I requested Baron DE REDEN to cause it to be examined. The person whom he charged with that care was his nephew, who is very skilful in every thing concerning the mines. He examined with Mr. RAUSCH, the chief geometer, the measure which had been given me; and they found, that in writing the depths of the differents parts of the mine, the sum of which ought to give the whole depth, one of these parts had been twice put down, so that the true depth was only 2151/2 lachters: it became then two feet less than that which resulted from my observations. Thus the barometric measurement gave four feet less than the geometrical measure for the former of the depths, and two feet more for the latter. I was qui m'avoit ete donnee de la mesure geometrique; et je priai M. le Baron DE REDEN de la faire examiner. La personne qu'il chargea de ce soin, fut son neveu, qui est tres eclaire dans tout ce qui concerne les mines. Il verifia donc cette note avec Mr. RAUSCH le geometre en chef; et ils trouverent, qu'en prenant en detail les profondeurs des differentes parties de la mine, dont la somme devoit donner la profondeur totale, on avoit pose deux fois une de ces parties; desorte que la vraie profondeur n'etoit que 2151/2 lachters. Elle etoit donc alors moindre de 2 pieds, que celle qui resultoit de mes observations, Ainsi la mesure barometrique avoit donne 4 pieds de moins que la mesure geometrique pour la premiere des profondeurs, et 2 pieds de plus pour la derniere. Je 492 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures I was at first as much surprized as satisfied with this exactness, which I did not expect notwithstanding my former experience; and I should not have been surprized to find two or three fathoms difference either way. But, reflecting on it afterwards, I perceived that there ought to be more certainty in the barometric measure for the depth of mines, than for the height of mountains; and that for the two following reasons. First, that in making these observations along the shafts of mines we go but little from the same vertical column, and by that we know with certainty the weight which compresses the part which we measure: whereas in mountains, even the steepest, the observations are made in columns of air which are far enough from one another to be liable to sensible differences on that account; and Je fus d'abord aussi surpris que content de cette exactitude, a laquelle je ne m'attendois point malgre mes precedentes experiences; et je n'aurois pas ete etonne de trouver 2 au 3 toises d'ecart dans l'un ou l'autre sens. Cependant, y reflechissant ensuite, j'ai compris qu'il doit y avoir plus de surete dans la mesure barometrique pour la profondeur des mines, que pour la hauteur des montagnes; et cela par les deux considerations suivantes. La premiere, qu'en faisant ces observations le long des puits des mines, on s'ecarte peu d'une meme colonne verticale; et l'on connoit ainsi surement le poids qui comprime la partie qu'on mesure. Aulieu que dans les montagnes, meme les plus rapides, les observations se font dans des colonnes d'air assez eloignees Pune de l'autre, pour qu'il puisse y avoir des differences sensibles a cet egard; et que in the Mines of the Hartz. 493 and that if, for example, the higher barometer were moved horizontally as far as the column which rests upon the station of the lower one, it would not stand at the same point as when it was on the mountain; which, however, is supposed in the formula. The other circumstance respects the homogeneity of the air. In the open air a thousand lateral causes may introduce into the portion of the column which we measure some layers of air different from those of the two extremities, were it only in point of heat. And in that respect the correspondent observations nearest the foot of the mountain are not always the most certain, because of the reflexions of the sun, and even of the winds which carry the vapours; and the result must be that we very often find the heights too small. I shall not stop to prove que par exemple, si le barometre superieur etoit avance horizontalement jusqu'a la colonne qui pese sur la station inferieure, il ne se tint pas au meme point que sur la montagne; ce qui neantmoins est suppose par la formule. L'autre circonstance regarde l'homogeneite de l'air. En plein air, mille causes laterales peuvent introdulre dans la portion de colonne qu'on mesure, des couches d'air differentes de celles des deux extremites; ne fut-ce que differemment chaudes. Et a cet egard les observations correspondentes les plus pres du pied des montagnes ne sont pas toujours les plus sures a cause des reflexions du Soleil, et de celles des vents qui charient les vapeurs: et il doit en resulter tres souvent qu'on trouve les hauteurs trop petites. Je ne m'arreterai pas a le monVOL. LXIX. T t t trer. 494 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures prove it. In mines, on the contrary, the air being inclosed as in a canal, where it is always in motion, it continually intermixes and becomes more homogeneous: it contracts there a temperature which is more uniform or more gradually different, so that we can more certainly fix the mean state of it. On these two accounts, therefore, barometric measures ought to be more regular in most mines than on the sides of mountains; because of the observations are made nearly at the extremities of one and the same column, and because the whole column is more nearly similar to its extremities; consequently we are surer that the particular case is not an exception to the rules. Now it has happened, that in all the observations which I have made in the Hartz mines, my rules, drawn from a mean among my observations in open trer. Dans les mines au contraire, l'air etant renferme comme dans un canal, ou il est toujours en mouvement, se mele sans cesse et se rend plus homogene: surtout il y contracte une temperature plus uniforme ou plus graduellement differente; ensorte qu'on peut plus surement en fixer le terme moyen. Les mesures barometriques doivent donc, par ces deux considerations, etre plus regulieres dans la plupart des mines, que sur les pentes des montagnes; c'est a dire parce que les observations sont faites a peu pres aux extremites de la meme colonne, et que la totalite de la colonne a des rapports plus reguliers avec ses extremites. Ainsi l'on est plus sur que le cas n'est pas une exception aux regles. Or il se trouve en meme tems, que dans toutes les observations, que j'ai faites dans les mines du Hartz, mes regles, tirees du milieu entre mes observations en plein in the Mines of the Hartz. 495 open air, have agreed with the geometric measures, which seems to indicate that the usual state of the air of the mines is a mean among the different states of the exterior air as found in the whole of my observations; the almost constant state of the heat in the mines may be the principal cause of it. As to the geometric measures themselves, I might here give some very interesting proofs of their exactness by the description of the astonishing works which are undertaken in consequence of them; but I should be afraid of being too tedious. And, besides, we may depend on the miners for the exactness of those measures, they being more interested in them than we are. I shall, therefore, conclude this paper with some general remarks on barometrical measurement. So plein air, s'y sont accordees avec les mesures geometriques; ce qui paroit indiquer, que l'etat habituel de l'air des mines, est moyen entre les divers etats ou il s'est trouve dans la totalite de mes experiences; et l'etat presque constant des mines quant a la chaleur, pourroit bien en etre la principale cause. Quant aux mesures geometriques elles memes, je pourrois donner ici des preuves tres interessantes de leur exactitude, par le tableau des ouvrages etonnans qu'on entreprend d'apres elles; mais je craindrois d'etre trop long. Et d'ailleurs nous pouvons nous en rapporter aux mineurs sur l'exactitude de ces mesures; ils y ont un plus grand interet que nous. Je conclurai donc ce memoire par quelques remarques generales sur la mesure barometrique. T t t 2 Tant 496 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures So long as in this measurement we shall consider as given only the differences in the weight and heat of the air at the places of observation, we shall be subject to errors; because there are many other causes of modification in the air: and all the exactness to which we can pretend will be to determine a formula which preserves a mean among the possible variations. This is what I have proposed to do in my own formula, and it seems to answer this end. In the different trials which have been made of it, it has sometimes given the heights too great, at other times too little, without distinction of climate. Thus, for example, the experiments at Spitzbergen by Lord MULGRAVE, and at the Pike of Teneriffe by Mr. DE BORDA, one of the French academicians, gave the heights too great; those of Col. Tant qu'on n'aura pour donnees dans cette mesure, que les differences de poids et de chaleur de l'air aux lieux des observations, on sera sujet a des erreurs; parce qu'il y a bien d'autres causes qui modifient l'air: et toute l'exactitude a laquelle on pourra pretendre, sera de determiner une formule qui garde le milieu entre les ecarts possibles. C'est la ce que je me suis propose dans la mienne, et elle paroit repondre a ce but. Dans les diverses epreuves qui en ont ete faites, elle a donne quelquefois les hauteurs trop grandes, d'autres fois trop petites, sans distinction de climat. Ainsi par exemple; eprouvee au Spitzberg par mylord MULGRAVE, et au Pic de Teneriffe par M. DE BORDA l'un des Academiciens Francois, elle a donne les hauteurs trop grandes; et dans les observations de M. le Col. ROY et de M. le Chev. in the Mines of the Hartz. 497 Col. ROY and Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH*, made in mean latitudes, and partly in the places where I myself had observed, gave them too little. These differences, do not seem to depend on the climate, and indeed I have frequently observed them to happen in the same places. Thus, for example, my observation on the Glaciere de Buet, cited by Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH, gives the height of that mountain a little less than the geometrical measure; but Mr. DE SAUSSURE having repeated the barometrical observation, it agreed with that measure by the same formula; and Mr. MARC PICTET, by a third observation, found the height a little too great. In these three observations, the particulars of which I omit, the corresponding point was Geneva, distant about ten or twelve leagues. At Chev. SCHUCKBURGH, faites dans des latitudes moyennes, et en partie dans les lieux ou j'ai moi meme observe, elle les a donne, trop petites. Ces differences ne paroissent donc pas tenir aux climats; ~ effet je les ai observees siequemment dans les memes lieux. Ainsi par exemple, mon observation sur la Glaciere de Buet, citee par M. le Chev. SCHUCKBURGH *, donne la hauteur de cette montagne un peu moindre que la mesure geometrique: mais M. DE SAUSSURE ayant repete l'observation barometrique, se trouva d'accord avec cette mesure, par la meme formule; et M. MARC PICTET, dans une troisieme observation, trouva la hauteur un peu trop grande. Dans ces trois observations, dont je ne rapporte pas les details, le point correspondant etoit Geneve, distant de 10 a 12 lieues. * Phil. Trans. 1777. A cette 498 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures At that distance there are doubtless some causes of variations which are irremediable; since the formula supposes that the observations are made in the same column of air. It is therefore only in the cases in which that supposition approaches near the truth that we can hope to perfect the rule. But this can only be by introducing new conditions into it; that is, other modifications of the air, of which we have not as yet taken any account. In meditating on the causes of the diversity of results in experiments, it has always appeared to me, that the differences of the effects of heat on the air, according to the different states of it, was the principal; that is, that the air not being always of the same nature, heat, that grand cause, whose effects we ought principally to determine, does not always act equally. Besides the particular experiments A cette distance sans doute il y a des causes d'ecarts qui sont irremediables; puisque la formule suppose que les observations sont faites dans une meme colonne d'air. Ce n'est donc que pour les cas ou cette supposition approche de la verite, qu'on peut esperer de perfectionner la regle. Mais ce ne sera qu'en y introduisant de nouvelles conditions; c'est a dire d'autres modifications de l'air dont on n'a pas tenu compte jusqu'ici. En etudiant les causes de la diversite des resultats dans les experiences, il m'a toujours paru, que la difference des effets de la chaleur sur l'air, suivant qu'il est lui meme constitue, etoit la principale: c'est a dire, que l'air n'etant pas toujours de meme nature, la chaleur, cette grande cause dont il faut principalement determiner les effets, n'y agit pas toujour egalement. Outre les experiences 1 particulieres, in the Mines of the Hartz. 499 periments which prove it, we can attribute to these differences only those of the results of the researches of some philosophers concerning the dilatations of the air by heat, applied to various physical uses. In a paper lately read at the Royal Society, on the subject of refractions, I analysed and compared different formulae of this kind, given by philosophers on whom we can depend. The result of that examination was that, supposing the volume of air = 1000 when the English thermometer of FAHRENHEIT is at 32~, if the heat of the air be increased 22,8 degrees of this thermometer, its volume will be, According particulieres, qui le prouvent, on ne peut attribuer qu'a ces differences, celles des resultats des recherches de divers physiciens sur les dilatations de l'air par la chaleur, <inferred>appliquees</inferred> a divers usages physiques. C'est a l'occasion des refractions, que, dans, un memoire lu il y a peu de tems a la Societe Royale, j'ai analyse et compare differentes formules de cette espece, donnees par des physiciens, sur qui l'on peut compter. Il est resulte de cet examen, qu'en supposant le volume de l'air = 1000 lorsque le thermometre Anglois de FAHRENHEIT est a 32~, si la chaleur de l'air augmente de 22,8 degres de ce thermometre, son volume sera: Suivant 500 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Measures According to Mr. l'Abbe DE LA CAILLE, 1040 Mr. Professor MAYER, 1046 Mr. BONNE, 1047,7 Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH, 1050,5 Dr. BRADLEY, 1054,4 Here then are great differences in this point only, namely, the effect of heat on the density of the air; differences which must have a visible effect in all meteorological phenomena. Doubtless they proceed, in a great measure, from the different degrees of dryness of the air, which we can no longer doubt of, since the interesting experiments of Col. ROY with the manometer*. This is the same cause to which I imputed the greatest variations in my experiments in open air, and which obliged me to conclude Suivant M. l'Abbe DE LA CAILLE, 1040 Suivant M. le Prof. MAYER, 1046 Suivant M. BONNE, 1047,7 Suivant M. le Chev. SHUCKBURGH, 1050,5 Suivant M. le Dr. BRADLEY, 1054 4 Voila donc de bien grandes differences sur ce seul point, l'effet de la chaleur sur la densite de l'air; differences qui doivent agir dans tous les phenomenes meteorologiques. Elles procedent sans doubte en plus grande partie des differens degres de secheresse de l'air; on ne peut plus en douter depuis les interessantes experiences de M. le Col. ROY avec le manometre *. C'est cette meme causo que j'avois soupconnee de produire le plus d'ecarts dans mes experiences en plein zir, et qui m'obligea a conclure ma correction pour les effets de la chaleur sur * Phil. Trans. 1778. 5 l'air, in the Mines of the Hartz. 501 conclude my correction for the effects of heat upon the air from a mean among my numerous observations. Now this mean, reduced to the same term of comparison as above, is 1047, which is also a mean among those different results. These differences therefore shew us, that atmospherical air is not a substance that is homogeneous and constantly the same; and that next to the care of making as many observations as possible in the mass of air itself which it concerns us to know, the only means of determining more exactly its various influences is to multiply our meteorological instruments. Barometrical l'air, par un milieu entre mes nombreuses observations. Or ce milieu, reduit au meme terme de comparaison ci dessus, est 1047, qui se trouve etre aussi le milieu entre ces divers resultats. Ces differences nous montrent donc; que l'air atmospherique n'est pas une substance homogene et constamment la meme; et qu' apres le soin de faire autant qu'il est possible, les observations dans la masse meme de l'air qu'il nous importe de connoitre, le seul moyen de determiner plus exactement ses diverses influences, est de multiplier nos instrumens de meteorologie. VOL. LXIX. U u u Observations 502 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Observations Barometrical Observations in the Deep St. John, July the 5th, 1778. Time. Bar. corrected Therm. in by its therm. the air. h ' Inches. At the ent. of the mine, 4 50 night 26.6224 5 2 5 night 26.6276 71/2 The mean, 26.625 61/4 At the George Gallery, 5 50 night 27.4167 17 8 15 night 27.4271 17 The mean, 27.4219 17 At the level of the 11th G. 7 30 night 27.9792 8 Calculation Observations barometriques au Profond St. Jean, le 5e Juillet, 1778. Bar. corrige par Therm. dans son therm. l'air. h P. L. A l'entree de la mine, 4 50 soir 26.715/32 5 9 5 soir 26.717/32 71/2 Terme moyen, 26.78/16 61/4 A la galerie George, 5 50 soir 27.5 17 8 15 soir 27.52/16 17 Terme moyen, 27.51/16 17 Au niveau de l'onzieme gal. 7 30 soir 27.1112/16 8 Calcul in the Mines of the Hartz. 503 Calculation of the Depth of the George Gallery. Barometer at the gallery, 27.4219 = 5265 (192ds of an inch) Log. 37213984 At the entr. of the mine, 26.6250 = 5112 37085908 Difference 128076 Heat of the air at the gallery, 17 At the entrance of the mine, 61/4 231/4 = 231/4/1000 to deduct 2977 1000dths of a French fathom, 125099 1/61 to add, 2051 Lachters 127.150 Calculation Calcul de la profondeur de la Galerie George. Bar. a la Gal. 27.5.1 = 5265 (~ de lig.) Log. 37213984 A l'entree de la mine, 26.7.8 = 5112 37085908 Difference 128076 Chaleur de l'air a la Gal 17 A la entree de la mine, 61/4 231/4 = 231/4/1000 a deduire 2977 1000me de toise de France, 125099 1/61 a ajouter, 2051 Lachters 127,150 U u u 2 Calcul 504 Mr. DE LUC on Barometrical Observations, &c. Calculation of the Depth of the 11th gallery. Barometer at the gallery, 27.9792 = 5372 Log. 37301360 At the entrance of the mines, 26.6250 = 5112 37085908 Difference 215452 Heat of the air at the gallery, 8 At the entrance of the mine, 61/4 141/4 = 141/4/1000 to deduct 3070 1000dths of a French fathom, 212382 1/61 to add, 3482 Lachters 215.864 Calcul de la profondeur de l'onzieme galerie. Bar. a la galerie, 27.1112/16 = 5372 Log. 37301360 A l'entree de la mine 26. 78/16 = 5112 37085908 Difference 215452 Chaleur de l'air a la gal. 8 A l'entree de la mine, 61/4 141/4 = 141/4/1000 a deduire 3070 1000me de toise de France, 212382 1/61 a ajouter, 3482 Lachters 215,864 