A further Account of the extraordinary Effects of the same Lightning at Wakefield. By Dr. Cookson. Communicated by the same. T H I S Storm of Thunder and Lightning happen'd the latter End of July, 1731. and not only broke the Glass and Iron Frames of the CrossChamber Windows, but at the same time split some Studds in the Corner of a Wood-House; and passing into a Room, split likewise a large Deal Box, which stood in the South Corner of the Room, where the Lightning enter'd, and dispersed a great many Dozen of Knives and Forks, which were put up in the Box, all over the Room. Upon gathering up these Knives and Forks, some of them were melted, others snapp'd in sunder; others had their Hafts burnt; others their Sheaths either singed or burnt; others not: But what was most remarkable, upon laying them on a Counter where there were Iron Nails, Rings, &c. it was observed, that when any of them were taken up, there K 2 hung (76) hung a Nail or Ring at the End of each of them: most of them were try'd, and found to do the same; but little further Notice being taken of them at that Time, they were thrown aside as damag'd Goods. Some Discourse concerning the Effects of Thunder and Lightning happening to be the Subject of Conversion in a Company, where the Owner of these Knives was not long ago, he told them what had happen'd at his House, and particularly to the Knives and Forks; and being ask'd whether he had any of them left, said that he had; and upon tryal it was found that a good many of them were possess'd of this magnetick Virtue. Hearing of this, I went and found what was related, and what I sent you an Account of before, to be Fact, and have now sent you a couple of Knives and Forks, one for yourself, another for the Royal Society. The Whittle-Knife, with the Box-Handle, is that which I would have you present to the Society; 'tis an excellent one, and one of the best: I had thought to have kept it myself; but if it will be acceptable to that famous Body, it will be much more agreeable to me. They will perceive that it has been used pretty much; and the Owner's Son, who gave it to me, told me, that he has made use of it for almost a Year and an half to all manner of Purposes; notwithstanding which it still retains the magnetick Virtue to an extraordinary Degree. The Situation of the Room, Position of the Box and Knives, and Direction of the Lightning, may possibly contribute to a fuller Idea of the Matter: I shall (77) I shall therefore presume to give a Plan of them, an Horizontal one, and submit it and the following Quaeries to the Consideration of that Learned Body. North ~ South-East Side. D. South-West Side. A. B. A. The South Angle of the Room where the Lightning enter'd. B. The Direction of the Lightning. C. The Polar or Magnetick Line. D. The Box with the Knives lying in a Direction parallel to the longer Sides of the Box. Quaere, Whether the Knives and Forks lying in such a Direction as either to coincide, or make but an acute Angle with the magnetick Line, might any ways contribute to their imbibing this magnetick Virtue; since a Bar of Iron placed in such a Direction, shall in a small time receive a transient Polarity; and if it ~ a long time in that Position, a fix'd and permanent one? Quaere, (78) Quaere, Whether the Knives and Forks lying in such a Position, and being violently heated by the Lightning, might not, as they cool'd, strongly imbibe this magnetick Virtue; since a Bar of Iron heated and placed in a certain Direction to cool, will sooner imbibe this Power than in the same Direction cold? Quaere, The Polarity of the Compass has been alter'd by Lightning, as it is to be seen in the Philosophical Transactions: Now how should Lightning be capable of communicating such a Power in this Case, since it is plain that it has taken it away in another? F I N I S. L O N D O N: Printed by W. INNYS and R. MANBY, Printers to the Royal Society, at the West End of St. Paul's. MDCCXXXVI. 