A Brief Narrative of the Shot of Dr. Robert Fielding with a Musket-Bullet, and its strange manner of coming out of his Head, where it had lam near Thirty Years. Written by Himself. AT the first Newberry Fight, in the Time of the late Civil Wars, the Doctor was shot by the Right Eye on the Os Petrosum, by the Orbit of the Eye to the Skull, which was likewise broke, with great Effusion of Blood from the Wound Mouth and Nostrils. The Surgeon carefully probing the Wound for the discovery of the Bullet, but failing of his intention, on the third day after the Shot, plac'd him Horizontal to the Sun; by which means depressing the broken Skull with the Probe, he could see the Palpitation of the Brain, but could not discover the Bullet. When the Doctor began to grow cold, his Mouth closed up, and so continued for the space of half a Year, till many Fractures of Bones were come out of the Wound, Mouth and Nostrils; and afterwards whensoever a Scale of Bone was to come out, his Mouth would (318) would close, insomuch that several Years after he Prognosticated to some Friends, that a Bone was then coming out, which continued so for 6 or 7 Weeks; at which time finding an itching in the Orifice of the Wound, with his Finger he felt a Bone, upon which he made known to some Friends then present, that they should see him open his Mouth, and taking out a Bone no bigger than a Pins Head, he immediately opened his Mouth. At the second Newberry Fight it heal'd up, no Art could keep it open. After this, for the space of Ten Years, or more, a Flux of Sanious Matter issued out of the right Nostril, and then ceasing there, it flow'd from the lest Nostril for some Years: At length, for the space of two Years or thereabouts, upon riding, the Doctor would sometimes find a pain on the left side about the Almonds of the Ear, which he attributed to Cold, but more especially after riding in a cold dark Night, which occasion'd a kind of Deafness too; and having stop'd his Ear with Wool to recover his Hearing, one Day, either Writing or Reading, suddenly an Huffe came in the Ear, which made him start, and the manner not to be exprest, unless you can imagine a Vacuum; this happen'd about March or April 70. Upon this all that side of the Cheek hung loose as tho' Paralytick, and under the Ear might be felt a hard Knobb. After this, Tumour upon Tumour appear'd on that side under the Jaw-Bone, which occasion d his consulting some Physicians, two at one time, one of which suspected the Bullet, which, considering the Shot, they thought not credible. At length the Tumours coming to the Throat, if he held up his Head a little, it seem'd as if one with a Hook did pull down the Jaw-bone, and if any thing touch'd the Throat, 'twas as painful as if prick'd with a handful of Needles; being at last perswaded to make some Applications, a small hole appeared, (319) ed, after that another, and a third near the Pomum Adami; by these the Bullet was discover'd, and cut out in August 1672. IX. 