V. Observatzons on the fundamental Property of the Lever-ywith a fProof of the Principle assumedby Archimedes, in his Demonstration By tbe Read S. Vince, X M. F. 1R. Se Read December w9, sy93 1 HE want of a demonstration of the property of the lever, upon clear and self-evident principlesA has justly zbeen consi? dered as a great desideratum in the science of mechanics, as the most important partsrof that branch of natural philosophyare; founded upon it. ARGH0IMEDES was, Ibelieve, tle first wllo attempted It. He supposes, that if Etwo equal bodIes be: placed upon a lever, their eSect to tirn it abotlt any point xs th-e same as if they were placed in the middle point between them This propositlon is by no nieans selfevident, and thelrefore the investigation whic-h S-founded upon itXhas been reJected as ituperfect. HU-YGENS observes, that some mathe-: maticansn aot satisfied with the prlnciple here taken forw grantedS haveg by altering the form of the demonstration, en deavoured to render its defects less sensible, but without SRC¢ess. + He therl attempts a demonstsration of his own, in whichf he takes for grantedf that if the same wei«t be removed to a greater distance from the fulerum, the effbet to trn about the lever will be greater; this is a principle by no means to be admitteda whengrearea supposeel to he totally ignorant ofthe effects of weights upon a lever at differents distaxlces from the M}:?CCXCIV F:C:ss :b) Mr. INCEJS -obyrtations on tbe34 fuIcrum. Moreover, if it were self-evident, his demonstration only holds when the lengths of the arms are commensurable. Sir I. NEWTON has given a demonstration, in which it is supposed, that if:a given weight act in arly direction, and any radii :be drawn from the fulcrum to the line of direction, the . * . eSect to turrz<itlae lever wlIl be the same on whichever of the radii it ¢acts. But solne of the most eminent mathematicians since his time have objected to this principle, as being far from self-evident, alld in consequence thereof have attempted to demonstrate the proposition upon more clear and satisfactoryAprinciples. -:lnhe demonstration by MAC LAU-RIN, asf far a-s it goes,^ is certainly very satisfactory, but as he collects the truth of the proposition only from induction, and has not extendecl: it to the case here the arms are irlconlmensurableS his demonstration is imperfect. The demonstration givell by Dr HAMI0LTON, in his FssaysS depends upon this propositionf that wfhen a body is at rest, and acted upon by three forces, tlley will be as the three sides of a triangle parallel to the directions of the forces. Now this is true, wllen the three forces act at any point of a body whereas, considering the Iever as the body, the three forces-act at diffierent points, and therefore the principle, as applied by the autllor, is certainly not applicable. If in -thisdemon$tration we suppose a plane body, in which the three forces act, instead of simply a lever, then the tllree forces being actually directed to the same pointof the body, tlle body would be at rest But in reasoning from this to tllae vse of the lever,; the same difficulties would arisen as in the proof of Sir I. NEWTON. But admitting that all otller objecF iionsC could be removed, the demonstration fails when ally two of the forces are parallel. Another demonstration is fouhded fVndamental Property of-the Ler@r.3supon this principIe, that if-two non-eIastic bodies meet with equal quantities of-motion, they will afterximpact, continue at rest, and hence it Xis concluded,0 that if a lever which is in equiIibrio be put in motion., the -motions of the two bodies must be tual; and therefore the pressures of these bodies upon tlielever at rest, t put-itin motions must be as their motions. Now in the first place, this is comparing tlle effiects of pressure arld motior>, the relation of the measures of which, or whether they admit d--any-relation, we are totally-u-nac quai?nted with. Moreover,-:they actfunder fvery:0different Gircumstances; for inE the-former case the bodies acted immediatelyoin each other, and in the latter, tlaey act:by uleans of a lwer, the properties of Xwhich: we are supposed to be ignorant of. When forces ac-t on a body considered as a poing ar directly against the satne point of any body we only estijmate the eSect of these forces to move the body out ofits pla£e, and no rotatory; motion is either generated, or any causes to produce it, corlsiderH in the investigatiorl. Wllen wea tllerefore, -applDr-the same pm?ositioni to investigate tlae effbet or forces to gexrate: a rotatory rnotionX we mXanifestly apply it to a case wshich is not contained in itf nor to which there is a. single principle in the proposition applicable The demonstrat tion-gven Lby Mr. -tANDEN, i-nhisS Memoirs is founded UpOll selfLevident principles,: nor do: I see any objectioIls :to his r-ea sonilag upon them. But as his iwnvestigation cvn$ists of severalL @ases, and. is besides very long and tedious. sesnetAling -more simple is;still much to-be wisliecl for propertovbe introduced in an elementary treatise of lnecllaaics3sotas rzot tQ perplex tXhe young studentVeither by-the length vf the detnollstration,* or svant of cvidl-ence^ in its principles.What I 11ere propose t;c F x S5tViNCE'sStObgrvatzons pnXhe oSer -wills I; tho.lfe,f ten@:v0-the:;whole: bBinesslanot) ollly very siemple, but also perfe£tly sat-isfAdtory. Tlae demonstration given by ARCHIMEDES WOU-1d be VerY SatisfadorDr-and..f..elegant, pro:vided the princ.pletorl-wlticI:i.it is £b:ur.ded.>>could.. ;be clear1y xproved vizs t:haX . two.equal. potweat at tlheX ewtremities, or their sum at the;mid&slle; of leveC fwo?>ld hare equal effects to mozoe zt; about-any point. Now, that the ef; fects will beDtheD samef so :far as respects any progressive motion bei-ng communicatedto t31et leverf when-at libert:tr to movefieelyj ist sufficierltly eleax:-, fbutthere is no evidetine: wha-tev-er that the effects will be: the same: to-$ give tlie lever a r-otgory motion about any point, because a very diffierent motion is therz produced, and we are supposed to know nothing about the efficacy of a: force at differerlt (listances frorn the fulcrum to produce -such a tnotion. Besidesf ;the two motions; areunot only different, but the same forces :are knowrl to-produce d: ferent effects in the two cases; rfor in the former case the two eqacal powers at -the extremities of the; armsr produce eqal effects in gerlerating a .prog.r.essi.7ve motion 5 but inwthe latte}: case they do not produce equal effects irl generating asrofatory motion. We cannot therefbre reason from one to the other. The pnllciple, howevern may be thus proved. Let AC, be two equal bodies placed on a straight lever, AP moveable about P;bisect A--C in B, q ^ B c P; produce PA -tov -Q; and take BQ=-B P7 1 ° O ° J\: and suppose the end Q to be sustained by a prop. lNhen asA arldf C are similarly situated ln respect to each ;end of the lever -thatS is A P-C: Q and A Q = G Py the prop and fulcrum must bear equal parts of the w-llole mreight X arsd therefore the prop at Q will be pressed witll a fundamental Propertyof tbe Lever. 37 weight Vequal Ito A. Now take awatr 0 tlseweights A ancl fC-, and put a weight a;t B equal to their suS ; and then the weight at B being equally distant froni Q and P, the prEop alad fulcrain must sustain equal parts of the wllole weight -and therefore the prop will nowX also sustain a weight eq}al to A. Hence lf the prop Q be taken asvaya the moving fbrce to turn the lever about P in both cases must evidently be t-he salne X therefore tlle effects of Aand G upon the lever to -turn it about any point are the same as when they are botll placed in the naiddle point between tllem. And the@:same is manifestly true if A and Cbe placed-without the fulcruln and prop. If tlaerefore A C be a cylindrical lever of unifUrm odensity, its effiect to turll itself about any point will be the same as if the wllole were collected into the middle point B; which follows from what has been already proveds by conceiving tlae whole cylinder to be divided into an infinite llumber of laminaeperpendicular to its axis, of equal thicknesses. The principle thereforeassizmed by ARCHIMEDES is thu$ established upon the most self-evident principle, that is, that equal lootlieo at eqgal distances must produce equal effectsX which is lnanifest from this consideration that when 11 tTle circumstarlces in the cause are e(3ual, the effiects must be equal Thus the svhole detnonstration of ARCHIMEDES iS rendered perfectly complete and at the same time it is very short and simple. The other part of the dem-orlstration sve shall here vinserta for the use of those who may rlot be actainted with itw Let X Y be a cylinder, which bisect x A * * y ln A, on which lCoint it would manifestly rest. Take any poirat Zs and bisect ZX in B, and ZY in Ci then, fros 38 Mrs VINCE9$ Observatzons, Sc. what has been proved the eff:ects of the two pakrts7Z Z Y to turn the lever about A is fthesame as if the weighe of eacll part were collectetl into B arld C respectively, whichP weights are marlifestlyf as Z+X, ZY, and which therefore conceive to be placed at B ancl CeX Now AB_ A X-X B -2 XY--*Xz_ 2 Y%; and f\G = AY-Y0C 2 X y _ I % Y2 X Z Z consequently A B: A C:: 2 Y Z # I X Z:: Y Z: X Z:: the weight at C : the weight at B-.; The property of-the straight lever being thus establishedS every thing relative to the beret levers ilnraediatelys fol%ws. 