The Anatomical Preparation of Vegetables, by Albertus Seba, F. R. S. Communicated to the Royal Society by Sir Hans Sloane, Bart. Pr. R. S. and Col. Med. Lond. Translated from the German, by Mr. Zolman, F. R. S. T A K E Leaves of Trees or other Vegetables, that are somewhat substantial and tough, and have woody Fibres; as for Instance, Leaves of Orange Trees, of Lemon, Jasmin, Laurel, Rose-Trees, of Cherry, Apricock, Peach, Plum, Apple, Pear, and Trees of Popler, Pine, Oak, &c. There are many sorts of Leaves that have no such woody Fibres or Veins; as for Instance, Vine and Lime-Tree Leaves. Those (442) Those of the first Sort above-mentioned, and the like are to be gathered in June or July, when they are most perfect, not touched by Worms and Caterpillars. They are to be put into an earthen Pot or a wide Glass Vessel, with a good deal of Rain-Water poured over them, and afterwards left in the open Air, uncovered and exposed to the Warmth of the Sun. The Water must always stand above the Leaves, and if it evaporates so as to leave them dry, fresh Water must be poured on. Thus the Leaves begin to putrify; some sorts will be rotten in a Month, others hold out two Months and longer. When the two external Membranes begin to separate, and the green Substance of the Leaf to grow liquid, then it is Time to perform the Operation. The Leaf is to be put into a white and flat earthen Plate or Dish filled with clear Water; then being gently squeezed with the Finger, the Membranes begin to open in the Extremities, and the green Substance comes out. Take the Membranes on both sides dexterously off with the Finger, which must be most carefully done in the middle of the Leaf near the Stalk: If there is once an Opening, the rest follows easily. The Skeleton that remains between, is afterwards washed in clear Water, and kept in a Book. The Method with relation to Fruit; as Apples, Pears, Plums, Cherries, Peaches and the like, is as follows. The finest and largest Pears that are soft and not stony, are most proper for this sort of Anatomy. First, they are to be nicely pared without squeezing them, and Care taken not to hurt the Stalk or the Crown. This done, put as many, and of such sorts as you have pitched upon, into a Pot of Rain or fresh Spring(443) Spring-Water; cover it, and let them boil gently till they grow throughly soft; then take them out and put them into a Vessel of cold Water: The Pear which is to be anatomized, is to be put into a Dish filled with cold Water; then take and hold it by the Stalk with one Hand, and with one Finger and the Thumb of the other Hand, rub the Pulp of the Pear gently off, beginning near the Stalk and rubbing equally towards the Crown, and you will easily see in the Water how the Pulp separates from the Fibres, which being most tender towards the Extremities, it is there the greatest Care is to be taken. No Instrument is of any use in this Operation, except last of all a Penknife to separate the Pulp sticking to the Core. In order to see how the Operation advances, you may fling away the muddy Water from Time to Time, and pour on clean: All being separated, the Skeleton is to be preserved in Spirits of Wine rectified. The same to be observed with relation to Apples, Plums, Peaches and the like. Turnips and other Roots, that have woody Fibres or Ribs, must be boiled without paring, till they grow soft, and the Pulp comes off. Not only many sorts of Roots, but also the Barks of several Trees may be reduced after this Method into Skeletons, presenting rare and curious Views of Vegetables. Hence one must acknowledge the inimitable Wonders of the Almighty, how wonderfully he has created every thing, yet so that all Creatures in Nature tend to Corruption. Therefore God having done every thing well, we ought to honour, praise and thank him for his Mercy, Goodness and Kindness, which in his Love he has made Mankind Partakers of. O o o I have (444) I have invented the abovesaid Preparation through my own Speculation, and with great Pains, without the Assistance of any Man living: I have made frequent Experiments of it, and do now communicate it very freely and readily. 