[ 45 ] IV. On the action of crystallized bodies on homogeneous light, and on the causes of the deviation ftom NEWTON'S scale in the tints which many of them develope on exposure to a polarised ray. By J. F.V W. HERSCHEL, Esq. F. R. S. Lond. and Edin. Read December 23, 1819. SINCE the period of the brilliant discovery of MALUS of the polarisation of light by reflection, the investigation of the general laws which regulate the action of crystallized bodies on light, has advanced with a rapidity truly astonishing, and the labours of an ARAGO, a BREWSTER, aM a BioT, have already gone far towards completing the edifice of which that distinguished philosopher laid the foundation. When MALUS wrote, the list of doubly refracting crystals was small, and the most remarkable among them possessing only one axis of double refraction, it seems to have been for some time, tacitly at least, presumed that the law discovered by HUYGENS, and since re-established in the most rigorous manner for that one,* might hold good in all. The discovery, by Dr. BREWSTER, of crystals possessing two axes of double refraction, or two * The author of the article on Polarisation, in the 63d Number of the Edin.burgh Review, just published, is guilty of a most unpardonable mistake, in as. serting, (p. i88), as deducible from Dr. BREWSTER'S experiments, that the Huygeniaii law is incorrect, for carbonate of lime. Dr. BREWSTER'S general formulae for crystals with two axes resolve themselves into the Huygenian law when the axes coincide, of which case it is only an extension. That excellent philosopher, if I understand English., in the paragraph which gave rise to this strange assertion, only means to declare his opinion that it remains undemonstrated. 46 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL 0o the action of directions in which a ray may penetrate their substance without separation into distinct pencils, has proved the fallacy of any such generalization, and rendered it necessary to enter on a far more extensive scale of investigation. There are two methods which may be pursued in observations on double refraction and polarisation, the one direct, the other indirect. The former turns on iimmediate observe ations of the angular deviation of the extraordinary pencil, and is, of course, only applicable when the forces which act exclusively on the rays composing it are sufficiently intense to cause a sensible separation of the two pencils. There exist, however, a multitude of crystals in which the force of double refraction is so feeble as to produce scarcely ally, or at nost a very inconsiderable deviation of the extraordinary ray, and in which, consequently, the laws of double refraction could neither be investigated nor verified, without having recourse to some artificial means of magnifying the quantity to be observed; a thing easy enough in theory, but requiring, in practice, the greatest nicety on the part of the observer, and in many cases altogether impracticable, from the physical constitution of the crystals themselves. The indirect method depends on the discovery of ARAGO, scarcely inferior in intrinsic importance to that of MALUS, of the separation of a polarised ray into complementary portions by the action of a crystallized lamina. It was reserved, however, for the genius of M. BiOT, to trace this striking phenomenon to its ultimate causes, in the action of crystals on the differently coloured rays, and to develope, in a simple and elegant theory, the successive gradations by which the polarisation of a ray in its passage through a doubly refracting crystal is performed crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 47 while, on the other hand, the splendid phenomena of the polarised rings, which we owe to Dr. BREWSTER, have established the connection of the tints so polarised with the force producing the deviation of the extraordinary pencil, and shown the legitimacy of conclusions respecting the intensity of thelatter, drawn from observations on; the former. This indirect mode of observation, which consists in noticing the gradations of colour for different positions and thick. nesses of the crystal, possesses three capital advantages. The first is its extreme sensibility, which enables us to detect the existence, and measure precisely the intensity of forces, far too feeble to produce any measurable deviation of the extraordinary pencil. It, in fact, affords the rare combination of an almost indefinite enlargement of our scale of measurement, with a possibility of applying it precisely to the object measured, arising from the distinctness of all its parts. Another, no less precious, is the leading us by mere ocular inspection to the laws of very complicated phenomena, and enabling us to form, and mould as it were our analytical formula, not on a laborious, and sometimes deceptive discussion of tabulated measures, but on the actual form of the curves themselves, which are loci of the functions under consideration. It is true, that a reference to tabulated measures is indispensible to give precision to such first approximations; but the power this mode of observation affords of copying our outline fresh from nature, and from the general impression of the phenomena, brought at once under our view, is an advantage not to be despised. Nor ought we, lastly, to omit, in our estimate of advantages, the means thus afforded us of subjecting the minutest fragments of a crystal to a scrutiny as 48 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL Oth act th n Of severe as the most splendid specimen, and thus extending olur researches -to an infinitely _greater variety, of natural bodies, than we could otherwise hope to examine. In order, however, to render observations on the tints developed by polarised light available, they must be comparable to each other ; and it therefore becomes an object of the first importance, to ascertain the existence, and discover the laws of any, causes which may operate to disturb their regularity. Ever since I first engaged in experimental enquiries on the polarisation of light, I was struck by the very considerable deviation from the succession of colours in thin laminee as observed by NEWTON, which many crystals exhibit when cut into plates perpendicular to one of their axes. I at first attributed this to a want of perfect regularity: in their structure, or to inequalities in their thickness arising from my own inexpertness in grinding and polishing their surfaces;,, and it was not till habit had rendered me familiar with all the usual causes of deception, that, finding the same phenomena uniformly repeated in different and perfect specimens, my curiosity became excited to enquire into their cause, the more so, as they now began to assume the form of a radical and unanswerable objection to the theory of M. Bicrr, above alluded to, which affords so perfect an explanation of the tints in crystals with one axis. These phenomena have not escaped the vigilanc of Dr. BREWSTER. In his paper of i8i8, he distinctly notices the fact of a deviation from NEWTON'S scale, in crystals with two axes, and promises a more detailed account of it, which however has not yet appeared. But the object of the present communication is not thereby anticipated, as in the only passage in that paper crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 49 in which he expresses himself otherwise than obscurely on its cause, he appears to regard the deviated tints as analogous to those developed along the axis of rock crystal and by certain liquids an analogy which, in the present state of our knowledge on that perplexing subject, it seems not easy to admit. In a paper too, which has lately appeared, containing the interesting observations of the same excellent philosopher on the optical structure of the apophyllite, he remarks the very striking deviation of the colours of this crystal from NEWTON'S scale "c in the first orders" of its rings; and while he remarks that such deviations are common enough, and indeed universal in crystals "1 in which the rings are formed by the joint action of two axes," seems to think this analogy close enough to authorize the substitution of two rectangular axes of a negative character for the single positive axis actually observed, according to his own peculiar and ingenious views on this subject. I lost no time in endeavouring to procure a specimen of this mineral, and by the kindness of my friend, Sir SAMUEL YOUNG, (to whom I owe more than one obligation of this nature) was favoured with one sufficiently transparent for optical examination. From my observations on this body, I think I shall be able to demonstrate satisfac-. torily, that the phenomena of the apophyllite depend on a principle distinct from that which produces the chief part of the deviation of tints in most crystals with two axes. The course I propose to pursue is, first, to describe the phenomena themselves. I shall then show how these phe. nomena, complicated as they are in appearance, are all redu.. cible to one very simple and general fact; viz, that the axes MDCCCXX. H 50 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL On the action of of double refraction differ in their position in the same crystal for the differently coloured rays of the spectrum, being dispersed in one plane over an angle more or less considerable, according to the nature of the substance. In many bodies, the magnitude of this dispersion of the axes is comparatively trifling, while in some, not otherwise remarkable for a high ordinary or extraordinary dispersive power, it is enormous, and must render all computation of the tints in which it is not taken into consideration, completely erroneous; and indeed obliterating -almost every trace of the Newtonian scale of colour. We have here, then, a new element, which for the future must enter into all formulae of double refraction pretending to rigour, and at the same time are presented with another very striking instance of the inherent distinction between the differently coloured molecules of light, which, since the time of NEWTON, every new step in opticalscience has tended to place in a stronger point of view. At the same time, by the easy and complete explanation this principle affords of all the more perplexinganomalies in the tints, the theory of alternate polarisation to which they were hitherto so palpable and formidable an objection, stands relieved from every difficulty, and may now be received as fully adequate to the representation of all the phenomena of the polarised rings, and entitled to rank with the fits of easy transmission and reflection, as a general and simple physical law. In fact, if we investigate by this theory a general analytical expression of the tint developed for any position and thickness of the plate, taking this element into consideration, it will be found to include all thephenomena, as far as they can be computed, crystallized bodies on homogeneous lighta while the law ofdispersion remains unknown. But we may go yet farther. The nature of the formula furnishes an equation by which the actual quantity of the separation of the extreme red and violet axes may be deduced from observations of the tints of a very simple and accurate nature, being perfectly analogous in principle to the "I method of coincidences," which has of late been applied with such success to the most delicate investigations in every department of physical science. The comparison of the results afforded by that equation, with those deduced by direct observation on homogeneous light, while it leaves nothing to desire in point of accuracy, leads to another important result, viz, that the proportionality of the minimum lengths of the periods performed by differently coloured molecules, in a doubly refracting crystal to the lengths of their fits of easy reflection and -transmission, supported as it is by an induction of no ordinary extent and accuracy, is yet not universal, admitting a deviation to a very large amount. Hence must of course arise a kind of secondary deviation in the scale of tints, In crystals with two axes, however, this is masked by the much more powerful effect of the separation of the coloured axes; yet even there, is not altogether insensible in an extreme case. In the apophyllite, however, the agency of this secondary cause is placed in the fullest evidence, The application of our general formula to the anomalous tints of that body, while it proves incontestably the exact coincidence of the axes for all the coloured rays, points out at the same time a peculiarity in its action on the more refrangible extremity of the spectrum, of a nature so singular, so entirely without example in all the multitude of '52 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL On the action of natural and artificial bodies hitherto examined, as to render me extremely desirous of prosecuting the research, with the aid of more perfect specimens, and improved methods of observation. Having arrived at the general result of a dispersion of the axes by the sole consideration of,. the gradation of tints in plates of various thicknesses, it becomes interesting to verify it by direct and independent observation. This I have accordingly done ; and the fortunate discovery of a substance in which it is of enormous magnitude, puts it in our power to render the fact sensible to the eye of the most unpractised observer, by an exceedingly simple experiment, to be described in its place. II Of the general phenomena of crystals which develope tints deviating from NEWTONWS scale, by exposure to polarised light. In describing the phenomena, I shall at present confine myself to the tints developed along the principal section of the crystal, which is supposed placed in an azimuth 45' with the plane of primitive polarisation. The observations of the tints in this position are most easily made, and least liable to error, and we shall see presently that it would be superfluous as welleas embarrassing to examine other situations, the law of the phenomena being completely deducible from this. In this series of observations, then, we traverse the polarised rings (Pl. V. fig. I.) in the direction of their axis of symmetry AA', passing through their poles PP' and centre 0. Now if we subject to this examination any one of the following substances : crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 53 Sulphate of soda ? Arragonite, Sulphate of baryta, Sugar, Nitrate of potash, HyposuIphite of strontia, it will be seen that the tints between the poles PP' correspond -to lower orders of colour, than would result from assuming P, P', as the origin of the scale, and agree much better with the assumption of certain pointsp,p' without the poles, as their zero, or commencement of the scale. The poles themselves, too,instead of being absolutely black, are tinged with colour; and the tints beyond them, instead of descending in the scale from the poles outwards, continue to rise till they reach their maximum (which is a white, more or less brilliant, or an absolute black) at the points p, p' ; after which they descend again to infinity. Not that in any case they coincide precisely with the scale of NEWTON, even with this correction, but, except in extreme cases, approximate to it within some moderate limit of error. If, on the other hand, we examine in the same manner one of the following bodies: Tartrate of soda and potash, Sulphate of magnesia, Borax, Topaz, Mica, it will be found that the imaginary pointspjp' ( which we shall call the virtualpoles) from which the tints must be reckoned inwards and outwards, to produce the nearest possible agreement with NEwTON'S scale, lie between the poles P, P'. In all these crystals, as the thickness of the plate examined increases, the virtual polesbpp recede from the actual ones PP', at least in respect of the number of alternations of colour which intervene between them: in other wvords., the tint dever Mr., J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of loped in the poles, or along the apparent axes of the crystal, descends in the scale, of colour as the thickness of the plate increases, and vice versa. In very small thicknesses the tints approximate pretty closely to NEWTON'S scale, or wholly coincide with it, while in very great ones, the tint developed in the poles is the composite white of the extremity of the scale. The angular distance, however, of the virtual poles from each other and from the axes, remains absolutely unchangedfor all thicknesses; and this striking fact, which I have proved by numerous and satisfactory experiments, was first suggested for examination as a result of theory, and would equally hold good, as will presently be proved, for every conceivable law of double refraction. The substances which I have examined most attentively, are sulphate of baryta, nitre, mica, and Rochelle salt, and the subjoined tables of tints developed for different inclinations in plates of the first and last of these, may serve as examples of the mode of action of the respective classes to which they belong on light, and will -afford data for some calculations to follow. The first two columns contain the inclinations corresponding to similar tints of the incident ray on the moveable plate which carries the crystal, in the general apparatus imagined by M. BIOT, for observations of this kind, Were the plate cut in a direction precisely perpendicular to the optic axis, (or line bisecting the angle between those of double refraction) and adjusted with perfect accuracy on the instrument, the excesses or defects of these angles above or below go' would represent the angles of incidence. Neither of these conditions were, of course, exactly fulfilled. But itis obvious that the small errors in these particulars (which crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 55 were ascertained not to exceed 10 or 20), must affect the com-puted angles of refraction on both sides of the perpendicular with equal and opposite errors. I The same may be said of any error arising from a slight prismaticity of the plate,which, however, must have been extremely small, the plate having always been rendered parallel by the delicate test of the spharometer, within a very few divisions.* Consequently, in calculating on these data, the mean angle of refraction determined by the simultaneous use of both observations, (their semi-difference being taken for the angle of incidence) may be expected to differ from the truth by an extremely ininute quantity. The third column contains the tint developed in the ordinary pencil, and the fourth in the extraordinary. The last notices the remarkable points in the system of rings to which the tints and angles in the other columns correspond. The positions of the poles were determined by interposing a red glass between the crystal examined and the reflector used to polarise the incident light. The glass used for this purpose, was of that kind occasionally found in old church windows, and whose manufacture seems to be numbered among arts now forgotten. It transmits almost the whole of the red rays, and part of the orange, while it completely stops all the more refrangible colours. I have endeavoured in vain to procure a specimen, whose linits of transmission are more confined. Such are said to exist, though very rare, and in the absence of such, the indications of that employed may be taken to correspond to the mean red rays. * Each equal to the z38o9th part of an inch. 56 'Mr. J. F. W. HIERSCHEL on the action of in. TABLE I. Sulphate of baryta. Thickness of plate = o.11964. crresponding Ordinary pencil. J Extraordinary. j Remarks, &c. 0 / 0 / 43 55134 37 Pink . . . Very pale blue green . Tints beyond 45 0 133 42 Bluish green . . Pink the poles. 46 0 1322 45 Rich pink . . Beautiful green 132 0 Whitish . . D Dull purple +6 58 131 37 Splendid green . . Rich crimson . 1I 3 1 o Blue . . Yellow 47 53 130 45 Crimson . . . Fine green Yellow inclining to orange . Blue Yellow . . Purple 48 51 129 30 Blue green . , Rich crimson Blue l . . Orange 1z8 S8 Purple * Pale yellow Rich crimson red . . Pale green or greenish white Fine orange . . Light blue Pale orange yellow . . Dark blue 50 8 127 45 White . * Sombre & very narrow purple Bluish white . . Scarlet or fiery red Light blue . . Orange Sombre greenish blue . Ruddy white, or very pale 52 1 26 50 Dirt) and very sombre purple . White [orange Sombre and narrow pinkish red . White Very pale violet or pinkish white Greenish white White . * Dirty bluish green 5 3 1 I 25 47 White . * Narrow and veiysonbre violet Virtual poles 12-5 3 White slightly yellowish . Violet [purple pp', or points 125 0Pale and dirty olive green . Violet white of coincidence. Very narrow violet . White 54 8 124 30 Blue very sombre and narrow . White slightly yellowish Light blue . Pale yellow Bluish or greenish white . Indifferent purplish pink 55 25 123 30 Yellowish white . . Sombre and narrow purple Light yellow . * Dark blue Dull orange pink . Pale greenish blue 56 33 122 ;5 Sombre purple . . Pale yellow green Blue . Yellow 57 30 Pale green . * Fine pink verging to crimson 57 50 21 o Pale yellow . . Purple 58 I; 12o 15 Light yellowish pink . Greenish blue . . . The polesPP' Rich pink . . Bluish green Tints between 59 12 I9 35 Pale purple . . Greenish white the axes. Blue green . . Crimson 6o 4 IS I o820 White . * Very pale purple I 457 4o Pink . * Blue green 62 0 117 5 Pale purple . . Whitish 6z 58 iI6 25 Greenish blue Pink 63 25 115 35 White . . Dull purple 64 28 114 47 Pink ? Bluish green 65 40 113 zo Greenish blue . . Pink 67 301 I1 30 ink . . Pale greenish blue 69 I 5 J IO 0 Pale greenish blue . Pale pink ,8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 57 In this plate the virtual poles correspond very nearly to the second minimum of the extraordinary pencil beyond the poles PP'. The same plate was now reduced by grinding to the thickness oo8816 inches. In this operation, care was taken to grind away the side of the plate most distant from the eye only, leaving the other perfectly untouched and unimpaired in its polish. The plate being reduced to exact paral-. lelism by the spherometer, was again examined, the same side still remaining next the eye. By this arrangement the same angles of emergence from the posterior surface correspond rigorously to the same directions of the ray in the interior of the crystal, with respect to the axes of its inole. cules; and thus we avoid completely any errors which might arise from using plates cut at different angles, it being almost impossible to cut two plates precisely alike in this respect. in. TABLE II. Sulphate of baryta. Thickness-o.o886. Correspondin Ordinary pencil. Extraordinary. Rematks, &c. inclinations.1 0 (f0 020 C Pink, verging to orange yellow . Blue somewhat greenish . Poles for the Yellow . * Dark blue mean red rays. 57 30 120 4 Pale yellow . . , Purple Greenish white P . Pink T . . Pints beyond Light blue . . Yellow verging to orange the poles. Dark blue . . Bright yellow j 57 122 15 Sombre purple . . Yellow white Very indifferent sombre pink . Bluish white Pale yellow . . . Dark indigo blue So 5 I24 o White . . Sombre violet Very pale violet white . Dusky greenish yellow S 7 125 33 Very sombre violet, almost black Pure brilliant while . . Virtual poles. Sombre and dirty olive green . White rather ruddy Very pale blue . . Orange white White . . . Sombre orange or brick red 5 ? 3 127 0 . . . Narrow purple Orange white . . . Blue Bright orange . . . Pale blue Bright scarlet . . Bluish white Narrow crimson . . White so il28 3oPurple . White Blue . Yellow Bluish white . . Rich crimson 48 40t 30 o Yellowish or greenish white . Purple Orange yellow . . Bright blue 47 35 131 s Rich crimson . . Green 47 s 328 Purple . . Good yellow Bright blue X . Pink yellow 46 7 132 33 Good green . . Rich pink or crimson .45 3 133 45 Rich pink . . Splendid green 44 33 i 34 3o Greenish purple . . . Pinkish white 43 3S 135 15 Good green, but pale . Fine pink 42 231336 30 Pink red . . Greenish blue 40 5 5 1 3 8 IPale bluish green . Pale pink 39 30 139 5N ale pic k . Very pale greenish blue MD)CCCXX. I M r. J. Fe We. HERtSCHEL OX the ation of 1n this plate the virtual poles correspond to the secondmaximum of the extraordinary pencil. It is needless to detail the tints between the poles. The same plate once mnore reduced, with the same precaution to leave the posterior surface untouched, developed the following series of colours bcyond the poles. in. TIABLE III. Sulphate of baryta. Thickness 0.-05758. inclinations. Ordinary pencil. Extraordinary. Remarks, &c. ~ 0 / 6o 571 t2 50 Fine ellow e . . Indigo * * Poles, for the 6o 20 123 27 Pale yellow . . Purple mean red rays. White inclining to yellow . Dull crimson red . . Pints beyond Bluish white . . Dull orange the poles. Indigo . . Yellow 57 55 Ia6 3 Sombre purple . . . White 57 50 126 7 Sombre reddish violet . . White 57 20 z26 33 Dirty violet yellol . White 1 27 30 Pale yellow . . Violet white 55 40 I28 2 White . . . Sombre violet 55 33 128 20 Pure brilliant white . . Black . . e Virtual l)oles. i 28 3o\ hite . . . . Sombre dirty green Pale orange . . . Pale dirty bluish green 53 40 130 io Sombre orange or brick red . White' 53 27 130 30 Sombre and narrow purple e White Blue . . Ruddy white Pale blue . . . Orange Bluish white . . . Orange red I 3 2 oWhite N . . . .rrow crimson 5s 31132 40 Pale yellow, &c. &c. . . Purple, &cs &c. JHere the virtual poles ,p' correspond precisely to the first minimum of the extraordinary pencil. In a plate of Rochelle salt, cut nearly, but not quite perpendic-uhar to the optic axis, and whose thickness was o.1944s inches, the rings beyond the poles were almost entirely obliterated, while those between them exhibited the following singular succession of colours, which will show to what an extent the deviation from NEWTON'S scale is carried in this substance. crystal/ized bodies oan homogeneous light. 59 In. TABLE IV. Rochelle saltperpendiculcr to the optic axis. Thickness&O. 1 94425. inCoieationsdn Odinary pencil Extraordinary. Remarks, &c. 201 30 330 0 oWhite . . . . White 4 * . Poles PP' for 207 ic Exceeding pale blue . e Exceeding pale pink red rays. 209 a Exceeding pale pink , . Exceeding pale blue 210 30 Very pale blue 4 4 Very pale pink Z X21 30 Very pale pink . . Very pale blue 213 20 Very pale blue . . Very pale pink ZI5 25 Pale pink . . Pale blue green zi6 +o Pale blue . Pale yellow pink 2I8 o Pink . . . Blue green Z19 29 Pale blue Pl . Ple yellow pink 220 58 Pink . i Greenish blue White . V Very pale purple 222 30 Blue . Yellow pink 223 45 309 30 Yellowish pink . , Greenish blue 224 50 308 15 Pale greenish blue . Yellowish pink Blue . Pale pinkish yellow 226 10 307 o Pale pink . , Pale greenish blue 306 10 Pale yellow . . Dark blue White . e Pale purple 227 25 Bluish or greenish white . Very pale violet pink zz8 30 Blue * . Very pale yellow Violet almost imperceptible . White 229 3 304 10 Pure white . . . Pure white . . Virtual poles Exceeding pale yellow e A little violet a P' 229 50 Pale yellow . Very narrow dark blue Very pale tawny orange . Blue, sombre and pale 231 20 302 20 Fine purplish crimson . Pale yellow green Very pale purple v White 232 25 Very pale green . Fine crimson White P . ale purple 234 o 299 20 Splendid crimson . Very pale green Pale purple . . White 235 40 Very pale green . Rich crimson White . . Pale purple 236 23 296 15 Rich crimson Very pale green Pale purple . . White 238 50 294 35 Pale blle green * . Good pink, almost crimson White . Very pale purple 240 12 292 5 SPink rather pale . . Pale greenish blue White . * White 242 10 291 30 Pale blue . . Pale yellowish pink 243 40 289 So Pale pink yellow . Pale blue 245 10 2 87 4-5 Very pale blue . . Very pale yellow 246 50 286 45 Very pale yellow green . Very pale lilac blue 248 25 284 5 5 Pale lilac . . * Yellow green White , * White 250 40 28z 3o Fine yellow green . , . Fine lilac White , . White 252 57 o80 z2 Lilac . Fine yellow green White . . White 256 5 277 25 Fine yellow green . . Fine lilac White . W White 25 9 20 274 40 Pale lilac . . * Fine yellow greet z6I 40 271 40 White , White z66 4o266 40 Green yellow e . Pale lilac I * The middle tint 6o Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of In order however to avoid the effect of the dispersive power, which at such considerable obliquities would render the observations liable to some uncertainty, I cut another plate, in such a manner that the perpendicular to its surface, instead of coinciding nearly with the optic axis, was directed very nearly to one of the virtual poles. Its thickness was then gradually reduced in the manner above described for sulphate of baryta, though, owing to the nature of the body, it was found impossible to avoid the necessity of re-polishing the posterior surface at each operation; but as this was done with all possible care, only a very slight error can have arisen from this cause. in. TABLE V. Rochelle salt. Thickness o.11,$X8. InclinaOrdinary pencil. Extraordinary. Remarks, &c. _t-ons. & . ......................H ..................A _ * t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pole P for mean 77 '8 V-ery pale pink . . . Very pale bluish green red rays. z Perpendicular z6 X 8 . incidence. 26 c White tinged with orange . Very fine intense indigo z6o 25 Yellowish or greenish white . Purple rather sombre 259 45 Very pale greenish blue . indifferent purplish pink Dull blue . . . . Yellowish pink white 258 50 Fine deep indigo White inclining to orange 258 30 Violet purple . . . Yellowish white 557 35 White, a little tinged with violet . White, not very brilliant . The virtual Yellowish white . , . Pale violet blue pole p. r6 Pale yellow Sombre indigo inclining to 30 Pviolet, narrow & well defined. Pale pink yellow . . . Sombre violet white 255 Io Pinkish purple . . Very pale greenish yellow '54 30 Rich sombre purple somewhat fiery. White tinged with greenish yelPale green . * Fine crimson [low -S2 30 Extremely pale green . The richest deep damask crimWhite . * Livid imperfect purple [son 450 27 The richest damask crimson . Fine pale green Livid imperfect purple . White 248 5 Pale bluish green . . Fine rich crimson 245 45 Pink approaching to red . Pale blue green 243 30 Sky blue . . . Light pink strongly inclining to 240 25 Pink orange P . ale greenish blue [orange red Sky blue inclining to lilac . Fine yellow 237 30 Pale bluish green . . Fine pink a little purple 237 o Splendid yiow green . . Lilac 234 70 Rich lilac . . Splendid green 230 io Splendid green . . Rich lilac White . . . White z25 45 Lilac blue . . . Splendid yellow green White . a . White 220 40 Splendid green yellow . . Pale lilac blue White , White 2I I 40 Pale lilac . . Pale greenish yellow 197 30 Fine yellow green . . Fine lilac crystallized bodies on homogeneous lfiht. Here the virtual pole was coincident with the 5th maximum (or thereabouts) of the extraordinary ray from the pole P; the succession of tints, however, unless close to the virtual pole, is omitted, in order to shorten the table. in. TABLE VI. Rochelle salt. Thickness o.o8557. IciunaOrdinary pencil. Extraordinary. Rernarks, &o. tions. {Pole P for mean 2|z2 . Good light pink . . Light blue green , red. Perpendicular 1278 0 . * * . . | * , . , {~incidence. Very pale yellow green . . Bluish purple 278 20 Very pale yellow green . . Violet 278 55 Very pale bluish green . . Very light pinkor pinkish white 280 o indigo V : Very pale yellow, almost white Pale violet . . . Very pale yellow 281 30 White . . White, perfectly equal and alike Virtual pole. Very pale greenish yellow . . Pale lilac 82 35 Pale greenish yellow . . Sombre lilac purple Pale pinkish yellow , . Dull and impure blue Pale pink . Pale yellow green 285 15 Crimson . * Yellow green 28S 45 Rich fiery damask crimson a Very pale yellow green Livid imperfect purple V . Very pale pink yellow 287 50 Fine light green . . . Fine pink 288 45 Very pale green . . Splendid crimson Good crimson . . . Blue green 291 40 Crimson, almost scarlet, &c. . Pale blue green, &c. In this plate the virtual pole fell about half way between the pth maximum and the 5th minimum of the extraordinary ray from the apparent pole P for the mean red rays. When once more ground down, it gave as follows: 62 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of in. TABLE VII. Rochelle salt. Thickness 0.05437, InclinatnionsOrdinary pencil. Extraordinary. Remarkls, &c. 262 25 Fine pink . Fine light blue green . PoleP for mean red rays. indifferentpurple ' Yellowish white 277 2o fndifferent lilac pink . e Very pale greenish yellow 278 25 Pale yellow inclining to orange . Blue rather pale . . Perpendicular Fine pale yellow . . Beautiful sombre indigo incidence. 78o 5o Yellowish white or pale yellow . Violet 28Z o White . 5 White with an almost imperVirtual pole ceptible tinge between yellow Very pale blue . . Yellow white Land Violet 284 So Sombre indigo . . . Pale yellow white Very pale blue . . Extremely pale pink white Yellow green . . . Lilac pink Pale yellow green . . Deep lilac pink -z88 5 Greenish white . . Rich but sombre purplish crim. White . . Dull purple [son Very pale pink e . Good blue green 293 33 Deep fiery crimson . . White Very dull purple (greenish) . White Blue . , Pink yellow [&c. 294 5o Very pale blue, &c. . . Rich orange, bordering on red, III. On the causes of these phenomena. The developement of colour along the axis of double refraction, is at first sight analogous to the production of the secondary tints along the axis of rock crystal, discovered by M. ARIAGO, and recently explained by M. BMOT,, in a masterly memoir communicated to the Academy of Sciences, on the hypothesis of a force inherent in its molecules independent of their state of aggregation, by which they communicate a rotation in an invariable direction to the axes of polarisation of the luminous rays. And this analogy is partially supported by the fact, that the tint developed along the axis, descends in the scale of colour as the thickness increases, crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 63 A more scrupulous examination however will show, that its origin must not be sought in any cause of this nature, for (not to mentiono the impossibility of explaining the phbe, nomena of the virtual poles by this hypothesis) if we place the principal section of the crystal in the azimuth zero, the extras ordinary image will be found to vanish completely for every angle of incidence, and whatever be the thickness of the plate. I may add too, that I have in my possession a crystal of quartz, which exhibits with tolerable distinctness in some parts the phenomena of two axes, and the appearances produced by the interference of the secondary tints in this specimen,while they agree completely with M. BiOT'S explanation, differ entirely from those which form the subject of this Paper. Neither are the phenomena above described explicable on any supposition of a peculiar action of the crystal on the diffew rently coloured rays, analogous to its ordinary or extraordiL nary dispersive power, by which the periods of alternate polarF sation of the molecules of some colours, should be lengthened and of others contracted, so as to disturb that exact proportionality to their periods of easy reflection and trans. mission, which M. BoT has proved to be a necessary condition for the production of the tints of NEWTONPs scale. It is true, such laws of action may be imagined, and I shall presently show must really exist; in all crystals probably to a small extent, but in two Xinstances at least, to a' surprising degree. But this alone will avail us nothing. To show this, and at the same time obtain a general analytical expression for the tint developed at any inclination, and for every hypothesis of the action of the crystal on the differently coloured molecules, let us denote by c, the length of a complete period of easy 64 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of transmission and reflection, or the extent of one pulse, on the undulatory hypothesis in vacuo, and at a perpendicular incidence for any homogeneous ray, and let C denote its colour -and proportional intensity or illuminating power in the prismatic spectrum. Then will the formula representing a beam of white light intromitted into the crystal, be C+C'+C"+&c. from one end of the spectrum to the other. Let n be the number of periods (each consisting of a double alternation) and parts of a period performed by the elementary pencil C, in its passage through the medium: then, ac,cording to the theory of M. BIoT, when n is o, 1, 2,), &c. ad inf. the pencil will wholly pass into the ordinary image; but when the values of n are 2 X 2X5 &c. it will wholly* be thrown into the extraordinary one, and in the intermediate states of n, partly into one and partly into the other. These conditions are satisfied if we represent by sin. (z xr) the intensity of the ray in the ordinary image, taking unity for its original intensity; and it will I believe be found, that the gradation of intensity given by this formula for the inter* The amplitude or total extent of each oscillation of the plane of polarisation is here supposed 9Oo, in which case the contrast of colour in the two pencils is at its maximum. This is the case in the situation we are considering, but in general the intensity of the extraordinary ray, instead of being represented by sin.2 n a, will have an additional factor, a function of the azimuth A of the principal section of the crystallized plate and the position of the refracted ray, and which becomes unity when A=45s, and the plane of incidence is that of the principal section. it is on this factor that the gradation of brightness in the isochromatic lines, and the black cross or hyperbolic branches which intersect them, depend. But it is not my intention at present to enter on this part of the subject for reasons to be explained farther. on. See note in page 84. crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 65 mediate values of n, will agree sufficiently with the judgment of the eye to warrant its adoption.* The part of the elementary pencil C then, which enters into the extraordinary image, will be C. sins (n x). Let us denote by S {C. sin 2 (nir)} the aggregate of all such-elements from one extremity of the spectrum to the other, or take S {C. sin' (n so) }-C. sin2 (n 7r) + C'. sin2 (n;) + &c. Then will this expression represent the tint developed in the extraordinary image, and consequently, S C. cos2 (n X) } that in the ordinary one. Now, n, the number of periods performed depends, 1st. on the nature of the ray, or on c; 2dly, on the intrinsic energy of the action of the medium on that ray; and 3dly, on the direction of its course, the thickness of the plate, and whatever other cause or limit of periodicity may happen to prevail. Hence we may take n M x k, k being a function of c, de. pendent only on the nature of the body through which the ray C passes, and M being a certain multiplier whose form we shall consider presently. This substitution made, the expression for the tint becomes S { C. sin2 (M k. 7) } In the theory of the Newtonian colours of thin plates and the polarised rings in crystals with one axis, the multiplier M is independent on c, varying only with the direction of the ray and the thickness of the plate. It is therefore the same for all the coloured rays, and the tint, for any value of M, will be * No part of our subsequent reasoning depends on the form of this function. It is sufficient to know that it must be a periodical, and even function of n. It is only in the computation of numerical values that it is necessary to make any more pre. cise assumption. MDCCCXX. K G Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of C. sin2 (M kv) + C'. sin 2(M k'r) + &C. (a) Now, suppose M to begin from zero, and to pass, by a van1ation either in the direction of the ray or thickness of the medium, or both, through all gradations of value, to infinity, or to its maximum, if not susceptible of infinite increase: then we see that for every value of M a certain peculiar tintwill arise, and that, provided M commence at zero and continue increasing, the same succession of tints will invariably be developed in the same order. Consequently, if we fix upon any two tints in this scale of colour, or any two values of M> the same succession and the same number of alternations of colour must invariably intervene between them, however we pass from one to the other. In a crystal with two or more axes, the value of M for any ray C must of course be zero in the direction of the axis, and therefore if the same supposition of the independence of M on c be made, the same conclusions should follow; namely, ist. that the extraordinary ray must always vanish in the pole, whatever be the thickness of the plate; and 2dly, that the same succession and number of alternations of colour should intervene between the pole and any assigned unequi_ vocal tint, such as black, or the pure brilliant green of the 3d order of NEWTON'S scale. Both these conclusions are totally at variance with the facts above detailed, as to the developement of colour in the poles, and the situation in the order of the rings of what we have called the virtual poles. Hence we are necessitated either to give up the theory of alternate polarisation altogether, or to admit the dependence of the multiplier M on c, or on the nature of the ray. Let us scre to what this will lead us. crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 67 According to the theory of the polarised rings if extended to crystals with two axes, the number of periods performed in a given space (= 1) by a molecule of a given colour, transmitted in a direction making angles 0, 8 with the axes, can only be a function of the form k. + (8,8'), k depending on the intensity of the polarising force; or as before, being a function of c, the nature of the ray, and of the intrinsic, energy of the molecules of the crystal. Now if we call t the thicky~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ness of the plate, and p the angle of refraction, t is the length of the path described, and therefore we must have for the number of periods so that the value of M must be t e which must be a Cosq ' function of c. Now t is obviously independent of it; and if we neglect at present the very trifling effect at moderate incidences of the. ordinary dispersive powers of the media exa mined, mp is so also. It is therefore in the form of the func-. tion 4 (8, 8') that we must look for the cause of the pheno. mena; and since, we have 8' = 0 + 2 a, 2 a being the angle between the axes (because the observations are made in the principal section) we see that 4, (0, 0 + 4 a) must involve C, and consequently, 8 being arbitrary and independent, a Imust be a function of c. In order then to render the theory of alternations applicable, we must admit the angle between the * It is easy to see that in the two classes of crystals above described, the effects -of the dispersive powers will be opposite to each other, in one opposing, and in the other conspiring with the causes which produce the deviation of tints. In the tables, Nos. V, VI, VII, where the virtual poles were-observed almost at a per. pendicular incidence, the influence of the dispersive power is quite insensible. 68 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of axes of double refraction to differ in the same crystal for the differently coloured rays. We must now show that this supposition is sufficient to represent the phenomena correctly. The symmetry of the rings and total evanescence of colour in the principal section at an azimuth zero, requires that the axes of all the different colours shall be symmetrically arranged, on either side of a fixed line (which may be called the optic axis) in this plane, or in one perpendicular to it. At present we need only consider the former case. Let a represent the angular distance of the axis for any one standard species of ray C (the extreme red, for instance) from this line, a + A'a, the same distance for any other ray. Then the distance of the transmitted ray C, from the axes of rays of that colour being 0, 0', the corresponding distances from their respective axes for rays of any other colour C' emerging in the same direction will be 0 -a + Soq and 0' + Sa + Jo, Sip being the difference (= 'p)of the angles of refraction, corresponding to the same incidence, for the colours C, C'. The positive values of 0 here reckon outwards from the pole; a is negative for crystals of the second'class, and 3'p is negative or positive according as C or C' is the less refrangible colour. Let us for a moment consider rays of only these two colours. The portion of the extraordinary pencil due to them will be C, sin (JoL (0 ,O).i.)+C .sin2 The rays of these colours of the same order in their respective series of rings will therefore coincide, and that in the proper crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 69 degree of proportional intensity for the production of a white image, provided we suppose sinCO-e k, (i9) Spe(-S A + a+ a*(b) which, since k, k',a,Aa, are constant elements, p, cp' determinate functions of 0, and 0'0 + 2 a, suffices to determine 0. If we suppose C and C' to represent the extreme red and violet rays, it is evident that the coincidence of the extraordinary pencils of the same order for these two extremes, will ensure that of the intermediate ones, at least very nearly. It would do so precisely, were the value of & a for any intermediate ray, such a function of k as would result from making 0 constant in the preceding equation, because the two laws, that of the dispersion of the axes, and that of the magnitude of the rings of different colours, would then act in exact opposition to each other throughout their whole extent. It is, in fact, a case precisely analogous to that of the compound achromatic prism, where if the law of dispersion in the one medium were identical with that in the other, a perfectly colourless pencil would emerge, and when these laws : differ, the coincidence of the red and violet rays ensures an approximate coincidence of all the rest. Should these laws however differ very considerably, an uncorrected colour will appear at the point so determined, and a nearer approximation will be obtained by uniting two of the more powerful intermediate rays, such as for instance the mean red and the blue, or limit of the green and blue. This then is the origin of the virtual poles or points beyond or between the axes where the tint rises to a white of the first order, more or less feeble, or even to an absolute blaclk and we may now see the reason why the tints in 70 Mr. J. Fo, W. HERSCHEL on the action of reckoning from these points approximate in a general way to the Newtonian scale. In fact, the periods of the more refrangible rays being performed more rapidly than those of the less, if we suppose the coincidence above spoken of to take place at -any point (the minimum for instanice), of the nth ring, the intervals between the' nand (n + 1i)th minimum willbe greatest for the red and least for the violet, &c. Consequently, when the violet next disappears totally from the extraordinary pencil there will remain yet a little of the redless of the orange,and so on, and this difference increasing at every succeeding minimum on either side, will produce a succession of colours approximating in a general way to NEWTON'S scale. This approximation will however be much, less close on the side of the virtual pole towards the nearest axis, because the disturbing influence of the separation of the axes on the figure of the rings and the law of their successive intervals is much more sensible than at a distance from the pole. This will be evident if we consider that in-the interval between the extreme coloured axes, the tints will be regulated entirely by the law of their distribu tion. Now this is perfectly corroborated by the succession of tints in the foregoing tables, as well as by numerous experiments made on other bodies. Our equation (b) gives room for a remark of some consequence, as it affords a striking verification of the theory here delivered. It will be observed that this equation does not involve t, and in 'consequence, the -Iangle 0 determined from it, at which the coincidence takes place, is the same for all values of t, or for all thicknesses of the plate. The observations of the tints in the tables given above, aflord us ample crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 71 means of putting this remarkable consequence to the test of experiment. In fact, in the three series of tints observed in sulphate of baryta, the apparent angles between the axes for the mean red rays are respectively 62? o', 69? 2', and 610 5', the mean of which is 6i 58', while the apparent angles between the virtual poles in the same series are 720 46', 720 36', and 72047'. The semi-excesses of the latter angles over the mean value of the former, are the apparent angular distances of the virtual poles from the axes of mean red rays, and are respectively 5 24', 191, 25, neither of which differs more than 4' from the mean. Fro ascertain the real value of 0, we have only to compute the angles of refraction. In the specimen employed, I found 1-6475 for the index of ordinary refraction, and the angles of incidence (the halves of the above angles) being 300 59' and 6? 2g3, 360 1 8', 36 24' ; the corresponding angles of refraction are i8' 12 ' so"(= a), 2106'1 0o", 2 1 ' 40", 210 6'4*d; and since 0= a in this case, we find for the values of 0, 1, o ~ It 0 2? 534 ,2 51 10 o, 54' d the means of which gives 2 53' " for the real angular distance of the virtual pole from the axis of mean red rays in sulphate of baryta. Again, in the series of tints, tables V, VI, VII, for Rochelle salt, the apparent angular distances of the mean red axis from the virtual pole were 277? 8'-9,57o35='_196o3'3l; 28s1?S3o'-262 1 = 19 30, and 282? 0'2620 25' = 190 o5' of which neither differs more than 3' from the mean 190 h3l. Dr. BREWSTER (Phil. Trans. 1814, p. 216) has stated the refractive index of this salt at 1-515; but this is certainly a 7e Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of little too large. In four experiments made at distant intervals of time, and by different modes of observation, I have found 1-49640 1-50220 P49670 1'49853 for the index for the mean yellow-green rays, of which determinations the last is to be preferred, having been made with great care. The same experiment gave 1 49293 for the index for mean red rays. The apparent angular distance of the axis for red rays from the perpendicular was 160, which leaves 30, 3' for the angular distance of the virtual pole from the perpendicular. These angles of incidence correspond to the respective angles of refraction 100 3S8 20" and 2? 22' 40", of which the sum 13o I" is the real angle between the virtual pole and mean red axis in Rochelle salt. The series in table IV, gives 13o 2' 25" for the 'value of 9, which agrees completely with the foregoing determination. I took seven plates of nitre of various thicknesses, and cut from different crystals, and by a mode of observation to be described hereafter found as follows TABLE VIII. Designation Mean distance of the virtual Excess f the plate. poles from the axis of mean above the Order of the coincidence. yellow rays (apparent.) mean. I 10 50 4' Between the 4th minimum and 5th maximum. 2 I 51 3' A little bevond the 3d maximum. 3 ' 57 + 3 Different at the two extremities. 4 1 53 0o zd maximum. s I Ss + a' zd minimum. 6 I 59 + 5 9th minimum. 7 1 53 of A little beyond the 8th minimum. Mean i 53 crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 78 Although the constancy of the position of the virtual pole for different thicknesses is sufficiently made out here, the small differences which exist are certainly not attributable to errors of observation, which, in the method I employed, are usually confined within much narrower limits. They are due to minute irregularities in the crystals themselves, consisting, probably, in a state of imperfect equilibrium of the molecular forces of aggregation, to which this salt is SO subject, that it is rather rare to find a specimen-in which the rings beyond both poles have exactly the same breadth or tints. ART. IV. Of the tints developed by crystals with two axes oat Of the principal section. If we place a crystallized plate at an azimuth zero in a tourmaline apparatus having the axes of the tourmalines at right angles, we shall observe, if its thickness be at all considerable, that the two oval spots on either side the axis of symmetry (which is now perfectly black) instead of being exactly regular in their figure, as in Fig. 2. P1. V, and tinged with colours symmetrically disposed on either side of a line m n perpendicular to the principal section, are invariably coloured at one extremity r with a strong prismatic red hue, and drawn out at the other v into more or less elongated and tapering spectra or tails of blue and violet light. The extremities r, r of the rings too have a large excess of the red rays, and the opposite v, v of the violet rays. In crystals of the first class above described, the red extremity is turned towards the other pole, while in those of the second it is directed from it, If we subject a plate of Rochelle salt to, MDCCCXX. L 7 4 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL On the action of this examination, the ovals a, a, are drawn out to a surprising length, and the whole prismatic spectrum is displayed in them Nith great vividness of colour, while the violet portions of the rings are greatly elongated also, and appear to run into one another. If the plate be turned round in azimuth, the phenomena assume the most singular appearances of distortion; and as the rotation approaches to 4,5', the rings in the vicinity of the pole are gradually obliterated by their mutual overlapping, which is the greater the thicker the plate. In all situations, hoWever, the interposition of a red or dark green glass immediately restores the perfect symmetry and regularity of the rings, which are then seen in much greater number, and completely well defined. All this is the necessary consequence of. the want of coinci" -dence of the axes for different colours. The lateral spots, for example, are formed for each homogeneous colour with perfect regularity close to their corresponding pole, and re. gularly decreasing in size from the red to the violet. Their arrangement will therefore be as represented in Fig. 3 PI.V, R, 0, Y, &c. being the poles corresponding to the several colours red-, orange, &c. The oval spots composed of red rays being represented by r, ri, those of the other colours will be super-imposed on them in their order, overlapping, as represented by the dotted ovals oo, yy, &c. like the circular coloured images of the sun in the spectrum of an ordinary prism, giving rise to the long prismatic tails above described. Similar considerations will apply to the anomalous appearances presented by the rings of all the other orders and in every situation. crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 75 This suggests a very simple and pleasing experiment, which affords an ocular demonstration of the adequacy of the explanation I have advanced. Let a plate of Rochelle salt be placed in a tourmaline apparatus in any azimuth (450 is the most convenient) and firmly fixed on a proper stand in a dark room. The eye being now applied, let an assistant illuminate the emeried glass or lens of short focus* which disperses the light previous to its incidence on the first tourmaline, with the several colours of the prismatic spectrum in succession, beginning with the red. The rings will then be seen formed successively of each of the colours, perfectly regular in their figure, but contracting rapidly in dimension as they become illuminated with the more refrangible rays.tAt the same time the pole about which they form will be seen to move regularly in the direction of the other axis of the crystal, and if we pass alternately from a red to a violet illumination, will shift its position accordingly, backwards and forwards through a very considerable angle. If rays of two colours be thrown at once on the apparatus, their two corresponding sets of rings will be seen at once, crossing, but not obliterating one another, and the distance between their respective centres will be observed to increase with the difference of their colours. By measuring the interval occupied by the projections of* See the description of an apparatus of this kind, subjoined. j See Lectiones Optic,lib. ii. Pars. i. Obs. xiii. from which the idea of this experiment is taken. " Magndque voluptate perfusus" says NEWTON, with the enthusiasm of the true philosopher who loves the field he labours in, 'I videbam eos dilatare aut contrahere se gradatim pro eo ac color lumninis immutabatur." It is impossible to witness the very beautiful phenomenon described in the text without entering into the same train of feeling. 76 Mr. J. F. W. IIERSCHE L on the action of the centres of the last visible red and violet rings, as well as those of the intermediate colours, on a screen at a known distance seen with the other eye, I found the following values of the apparent and real separation of the several coloured axes: Between Apparent interval. Real Interval. Red~~~~~~~~~~ an orng 1 Red and orange o 37 very uncertain 0 25 Yellow 1 So rather uncertain ] 13 Green 343 Do, 2 29 Blue 6 5 4 3 Indigo 8 19 53 Violet 94G 631 As a mode of measurement this method is very inaccurate, especially in the extreme red and violet rays, both of which would be copiously, and indeed almost entirely absorbed in their passage through two plates of tourmaline of a yellowishgreen colour. Much more exact and unexceptionable measures will be presently given, but these are quite sufficient to establish the reality of the phenomenons described. V. Of a secondary cause of the deviation of tints, subsisting in certain crystals, and of the anomalous tints of the apophyllite. To determine the dispersive power of any medium, and obtain some rough knowledge of its law, we make a prism of it act in opposition to one of a standard substance. To ascertain the total dispersion of the axes of a crystal, or the angle by which the extreme red and violet axes differ, we maymake it act against itself. Since the violet rings are more elevated by refraction than the red, from the situation in which they crystallized bodies on homogeneos light.' would appear to an eye immersed in the medium, a plate may be conceived cut in such a direction as to make their apparent centres coincide, in which case the tints immediately about the poles will coincide with NEWTON'S scale, and the extraos ordinary image will totally disappear in the pole at an azimuth If. This condition -gives a + o, whence (supposing R, R' the indices of refraction for extreme red and violet rays and R=R!'R) we find 3 _ atan.@ The angle p however becomes imaginary, and this method, in consequence, inapplicable when the separation of the extreme axes (Ja) is greater than the maximum dispersion of the Colours of an intromitted white ray, that is, when Xa >a R.jVR-I Let us resume our equation (b), and supposing the form of the function 4,, and the constants a, k, kP, R and JR ascer. tained, let the angle 0, at which the coincidence takes place be observed, and the value of J a will then become known. If we suppose it small, which it is in the generality of crysw tals, we get .._ A',4, -{4K sin m+ 4 + d4~~~ ~ ~ d4rc). d O' do (4, being put for 4(0, 8') for the sake of brevity). At incidences nearly perpendicular, 3 may be neglected, and the expression reduces itself to Ha~a-H Ed (d) dco d o Thle comparison of these fornnula with observation., Which 78 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of willIlead to some very remarkable consequences requires us to know the form of the function v and the values of K, k'. We will begin with the former and in this investigation the first step is to determine the general equation of the isochromatic lines. In order to this, we must separate in all cases the law of the tint: from that of its, intensity. The latter depends entirely on the greater or less facility we' the emergent ray finds in penetrating the prism of Iceland spar employed for its analysis, and will not enter into the present investigation. When we examine a crystallized plate in a convenient graduated apparatus, between tourmaline plates crossed at right angles, turning it slowly round between them in its own plane, the form of the coloured bands, if illuminated with homogeneous light, will remain perfectly unchanged during the rotation, but the two black hyperbolic branches passing through the poles, will obliterate in succession every part of their periphery:; and the space over which the darkness extends, as well as the degree of illumination of what remains visible, varying at every instant, give rise to so great a variety of appearances, that some little attention is required to recognize this perfect identity of figure. When the tourmaline next the eye is made to revolve, the crystallized plate remaining fixed, the complicated changes which {ake place, are perfectly reconcilable with the superposition of the primary on its complementary set of rings, the relative -intensities of the two sets at any point being regulated by laws we have no occasion to consider at present, but the figure of the isochromatic lines, where visible, remains absolutely unchanged by any rotation in this part of the apparatus. To form a first hypothesis on the nature of the function czystal/ized bodies on homogeneous light. 79 which determines the equation of any one of these curves, we must select a crystal, where the proximity: of the axes and intensity of the polarising forces are such, as to bring the whole system of rings within a very small angular compass; as by this means we avoid almost entirely the disturbing effect of the variation in thickness arising from obliquity of incidence. Dr. BREWSTER, in his Paper of i 8i8, has chosen nitre, as affording the best general view of the phenomena, and it is admirably adapted for this purpose'; the whole system of rings being comprised at -a very moderate thickness within a space of lo', allowinLg us to regard their projection on a plane perpendicular to the optic axis as a true represent. tation of their figure, undistorted by refraction at the surface, &c.If we examine the rings in this crystal (illurninated with homogeneous light, or by the intervention of a red glass in common day-light) it will be evident that the general-: form of any one of them is a re-entering symmetrical oval, which no straight line can cut in more than four points, and which, by a variation of some constant parameter, is in one state wholly concave, as 1 (Fig. 4. Plate V.) then becomes flattened, as 2 then acquires a minimumn ordinate and points of contrary flexure, as A; then a node, as 4; after which it separates into two conjugate ovals, as Ad which ultimately contract themselves into the poles P. P' as conjugate points. The general idea bears a striking resemblance to the variation in form of the curve of the fourth order, so well known to geometers under the name of the leminniscate, whose equation is (x2+ye+ a2)2 = a' (b2+ 4 X2) when the parameter b gradually diminishes from infinity to 8o Mr. J, F. W. HERSCHEL On the action o] zero, 2 a being the constant distance between the poles ",In order, however, to put this to a satisfactory examination, accurate measures must be taken, which, in the case of nitre, from the minuteness of the system of rings, presented at first some difficulties. These I obviated, after many fruitless trials, by a mode of observation which I have found extremely convenient and accurate, and which applies particularly well to the present purpose. "It consists in projecting the rings by solar light on a screen in a darkened room, by which means they may be magnified to any required extent" examined at perfect leisure, and in all their phases, and measured or traced with a pencil with the utmost exactness and facility. They may be thus exhibited too to a number of spectators at once; a thing which may prove serviceable to the acturer, for which reason I have subjoined to this paper a brief descrip. tion of the apparatus I employ. Having cut a very perfect crystal of nitre at right angles to its axis of crystallization, and adjusted it properly on this apparatus, the rings were projected on a large sheet of paper, stretched, while moist, on a drawing board, by which means it assumes a truly plane surface by the contraction it under.goes while drying. The poles were then marked and the loci of the successive maxima for red rays carefully outlined. The screen being then removed, a series of lemniscates were laid down by points having the same poles and one common point in each, chosen where the tint was most decided. It is unnecessary to give any comparative statement of measures in the observed and constructed curves, asthee points, graphically laid down, uniformly fell on the pencilled outlines or, in the few instances to the contrary, crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. Si within limits less than the very trifling irregularities of the outlines themselves. The graphical construction of these curves is rendered extremely easy by the elegant and well-known property of the lemniscate, in which the rectangle under two lines drawn from the foci (or poles) to any point in the periphery, is invariable throughout the whole extent of the curve. This is easily shown from its equation, and the value of this constant rectangle in any one curve is expressed by a b. We must next enquire how the constant parameter b varies in passing from ring to ring. To this end I projected the rings, illuminated by red light only, on a screen as before, and having outlined the successive loci of the minima of illumination, and laid down the poles, found the values of a b in the several lemniscates, as in the following table: Order of Observed Values of a b Excess of computed the values of a b computed from above observed miniin sqare Differences. formula a b _bve ofb mum. inchS. P9X values o ~~~in, e _5 x __n__ nl0 010O 0'00 0,00 I 1.62 I6 62z I 59 -003 2 3 '65 P'545 3-18 + 0'02 3 4-69 1'525 4-77 + o'o8 4 6z27 Ig58 6'36 + 0'09 5 7'87 i67'95 + oo8 6 9'56 x'69 9'54 -0'02 7 II'09 P53 1P113 + 0040 8 1 2.7 7 !68 IZ*72 005 9 14'33 x'56 1431 -0102 0 3 6o 15690 Meatn I'59 The nature of the illumination not allowing the delineation to be performed with the same freedom and precision as in a fuller light, the values of a b in the second column are the means of a great number of measures, taken in every part MDCCCXX. M 82 Mr. Jo F. W. HERSCHEL on the ction of of their respective cuirves. The numbers in the 5th column exhibit the excesses of the terms of the arithmetical progresa sion in the 4th (whose common difference is 19 the mean of all the differences in the third column) above the observed values of a b, and are so small as fully to authorize the conelusion, that these values and of course those of the parameter b, increase in arithmetical progression with the order of the rings; or in other words, that the number of periods performed in a given space (=i) by a luminous molecule going to form any point M in the projection of any ring, is proportional to the rectangle of the distances P M, PI M of that point from the two poles Now, if we extend our views to crystals in which the distance between the axes is considerable, we may reasonably expect that the usual transition which takes place in analytical formule from the arc to its sine, when we pass from a plane to a spherical surface, will hold good. If this be the case, we shall have at once, and in all cases 4' (0, 0) sin 0. sin 6 and the nature of the isochromatic curve for the n complete period will be expressed by the equation sin 0. sinOi'=. tcos = hc Coscp (e) putting h for kte If the plate be cut at right Wangles to the optic axis COs s + cc I z * cos a and consequently sin9O. sin (-2t(cos O +Cos( 2 k itcosa To put this to the trial I took a plate of mica, whose thickness measured o023o78 inch, and having adjusted it accurately on a divided apparatus, placed it in an azimuth 450, crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 83 and, by the intervention of the red glass above mentioned observed the maxima and minima of the extraordinary pencil between the poles. As these observations, when repeated, seldom agreed unless within a few minutes, ten were taken of each maximum and minimum. The angles of incidence, deduced from a mean of similar observations on each side of -the perpendicular, are set down in -the 2d column of the following table, each number in which is therefore a mean result of 20 observations. The 1st column contains the values of n, or the order of the ring observed; the 3d, the angles of refraction, to obtain which I used the index X boo, em. ployed by M. BIOT.I The 4th and 5th columns contain the values of 0,0' thence computed, and the 6th, values of the sin 0. sinl 0' coefficient h, deduced from the formula h _ n . Cos vP in, TABLE X. Mica. Thickness-o 023o78. Values Angles of Angles of Values of h.Excesses above of n Incidence. Refraction. V meanb 0 _ / __ / ,/ 0_4 __. ./ 0 0 35 3 30 22 31 0 0 0 0 45 2 0 0'5 32 55 20 21 14 40 1 i6 2043 45 400 032952 -0-000O195 I 30 34 40 9 49 30 2 41 30 42 20 30 0 033622 + 0,000475 i5 23 Is 40 i8 24 0 4 7 040 55 00 0033035 0',00012 2 25 34 zo i6 43 30 S 47 30139 14 30s 0033327 + 0'000180 25 22 46 2014 57 15 733 45 37 28 15 0-033148+ +oooOOx 3 19 35 40 IZ 55 10 9 35 503 26 10 00330S8 ooooo89 3 `5 48 4010 27 50 12 3 1032 58 50 0033026 o0ooo121 4 10 48 SO 7 11 10 15 19 5029 42 10 0-033010 .0i000137 _ _ 0033 147 1* Recherches sur lesMouvemens des Molecules de Ia lumiere, &c. p. 482. fie takes it equal to that of glass-,,," ce qui ne doit pas etre fort eloigne de la verite." I have attempted, without success, to measure its value. What has satisfied M. BIOT and Dr. BR E WST E R (for the latter has evidently used this index, or one very near it, Phil. Trans. i8i8, p. 230) ought to satisfy every one: yet it is fortunate that in the present instance, a slight variation in the refractive index will produce but a very trifling change in the relative values of b. 84 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHELon the action of The last column of this table exhibits the deviations in excess or defect of the values of the quantity hI, so computed from the mean of all of them. Their smallness, in comparison with the quantity itself, and their alternations of sign, are evident proofs of the constancy of this coefficient, and we are therefore -authorized to take sine 0 x sin &M as the general value of (0, 0'). The observations on Rochelle salt, presently to be noticed, confirm this law*, If we denote by I the mini"L mum length of a double oscillation, or the space passed over during one complete period by a ray transmitted at right angles to both axes, we have = tk and consequently 4h T' I = h t. If we substitute for h and t their values above found, we obtain 1= OQOO7G497 inch for the mninimum length of a period performed by a mean red ray in mica. * When qu=tV as in crystals with one axis, we have +4 (0, ) sin P, a result long since confirmed by the accurate experimerts of BIEWSTRER and Bio T. The yelocity of the extraordinary ray in such crystals is given by the fornula -V1 + X sin 0. Follwing this analogy. we may conclude that in crystals with two axes we should have vt = Vt+ X .sin 0 . sii V* Now this is preisely the expression at which M. BlOT has recently arrived. This yer simple and elegant result was nmunicated to me by that eminent philosopher in the spring of ti is year, and subsquently in a letter of the ad May. His Memoir on the subject, which appears. (by the Ann. de Chim.) to have been read to the Institute in April, I have not seen, nor do I know by what pre ise steps he was 1l t it, but presume it must have been by some considerations of the nature aboe described In the foregoing investigation of the law of periodicity,I beg leave therefore to disclaim all intention of arrogating to mnyself any share in this beautiful discovery, but have thought it neo cessary to state the steps in the text, in order to demonstrate a truth essential to the investigatins to fol ow, which could not have been taken for granted, or deduced by any legitimate reasoning, independent of experiment, from the equation va -V% + X sin 0 . sin <,, by. reason of our ignorance of the nature 'and mode of action of the polarising forces ; and, have purely abstaine< fro entering any farther into the general laws of double refraction and polarisation than I could Visibly avoid. crystallized bodies -oi homogeneous ?ight*' 85 Resuming our general equations (b) and (d) if we subI stitute the value now determined for i, and write T, for { I, we have sin( a+J +?p); (g) whence it is easy to derive (independent of any approximation) cos (a + Pa)cos2p+ 2 . C sin sinE; (h) Tcos while our approximate equation (d) furnishes the following very convenient formula for incidences nearly perpendicular 1-4' sin0,sinV sin Ha n l( The simplest supposition we can frame relative to the values of the constant elements 1, 11 is their proportionality to those of c, c', or the lengths of the fits of easy reflection and transmission, This cannot certainly be far from the truth in crystals with one axis, in which the coincidence of the tints, with those of NEWTONs scale, is for the most part exact. In sulphate of lime too, and mica, the only crystals with two axes which have been examined with sufficient exactness, and under the proper circumstances for ascertaining this important pint, the law of proportionality -seems to be sustained with great precision. This may seem to authorize the general conclusion, that in all cases, -, Let us see how this agrees with the measures given in the former part of this paper. In sulphate of baryta, if we take Dr. BREWSTER'S measure of the dispersive power,* we have 3 R.-o19, and con.er quently, calculating on the data determined in page 71, we must have, at the virtual pole, x _ 2I 3 9% 5o30 (P 20,501 g -1 Now, if we suppose 1-=63463 1' =3g9982, the values of c * AR _ is9. Treatise on new Philosophical Instruments,. 86 Mr. J. F. W. HIERSCEL. on the action of and c' respectively for the extreme red and violet rays,* we shall find by substitution in our formula (h) =a = 51' 10" But a red ray penetrating the surface from within the crystal at an angle a = 181 ?3o0", and a violet one at an angle a + ;a =19 3 40', would emerge at the respective angles 0059I and 32058120o1, and would include between them an angle of 10591 20", which should be the apparent separation of the red and violet axes in the plate employed. Now, previous to the computation of this result, I had carefully measured this angle, by observing the incidences at which the extreme red and violet rays of the prismatic spectrum, received on the reflector of a graduated apparatus, respectively disappeared from the extraordinary imageat the poles P, P'. I thus found Interval of the poles P, P' for red rays 69? 2' Do. for violet _ 66051 Semi-difference, or apparent separation of the axes 2 if so3o which differs from its computed value only by 2' ic". We may therefore fairly conclude, that in the case of sulphate of I baryta, the hypothesis T = -c does not deviate sensibly from the truth. If we apply our formula (i) to the measures above given for Rlochelle salt, the result swill be widely different. The sa me supposition as to the values of 1,1' being made, we get a = 40 215011 The incidence being nearly perpendicular, and the angle small, we need only increase it in the proportion 1A499 :, to have the apparent angle, which thus comes out 6?4'. We have already found 90 461 for the same angle, by a method which* BLOT, Traits de Physique. Vol. IV. crystallized bodies oi homwgeneous ight. 87 must necessarily give a result much below the truth. This difference is by far too great to arise from any errors of observation, but to obtain more exact measures, I took several times the apparent angular separation of the axis of each colour from that of the extreme red by the direct homogeneous light of a sunbeam, separated by the prism, and received on the reflector of a divided apparatus, when, after the proper reductions for refraction and dispersion, the results were as follow: Apparent Real VleofNumber Colour. separation separation of obser. of the axes. _-a= _ a. vations. 0 / 0 / 0 e Extreme Red. o _ 75 47 13 Mean Red. I 33 X 2 73 38 45 Dot Orange. 2 37 I 44 72 14 x8 Do. Yellow. 4 0 2 40 70 23 20 Green. 5 49 3 52 67 57 i6 Blue 8 2 5 21 65 0 13 Indigo. IO 21 6 54 6i 54 33 Indigo Violet. I 117 7 31 6o 40 2 Mean Violet. 13 58 9 17 57 8 2 Extreme Violet. 15 23 10 14 55 14 8 Though the total separation of the red and violet axes in this table so far exceeds what we had before estimated it at, I am fully satisfied that it is no way exaggerated but rather falls short of the truth. It is very practicable, by combinag tions of coloured glasses, liquids, &c. to insulate either extremity of the spectrum in a state of the most absolute purity. In this climate, the dispersed light of the sky in the neighbourhood of the sun, which always mixes with the prismatic beam, is so considerable as to obliterate the feeble rays which compose the two extremities of the spectrum, and it is only by interposing such combinations between the eye and the Iceland crystal used to analyze the polarised ray, that they 88 Mr. J. F. We. HERSCHEL on the action of can be examined with any certainty. The combination I employed for the extreme red was such, that when the whole spectrum thrown on a white screen was viewed through it, it was seen reduced to a perfectly circular, well defined, deep red image, whose centre fell on the very farthest termination of the red as seen by the naked eye, and whose circumference attained, or perhaps surpassed the point where the maximum of the -calorific rays has been supposed to be situated. In like manner, when the same spectrum was examined with the violet combination, a very slightly elongated violet image became perceptible, but every trace of the indigo, and the brighter portion of the violet rays was extinguished. For observations on the indigo, and all the more refrangible portion, I employed similar artifices, without which I found it perfectly impracticable to obtain any regular and comparable results. The coefficient T in our formula being the only part not, immediately deduced from observation, it is evident that the assumption 4-= must be widely erroneous in the present instance, and it therefore becomes necessary to ascertain the values of I by direct measures. This is rendered easy by the equation (e) which gives I sin0. sin O' t. COs We have only therefore to observe the inclinations of a plate of known thickness, properly cut and adjusted to 4S? azimuth, which correspond to the alternate disappearances of the ordinary and extraordinary images, at which points the values of n are I-, &c; computing then the values of 0, 0', and p, and substituting, we get the values of 1, without crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 89 detailing particular experiments. The following table expresses the final result of a great number of such measures. Colour. Values of I in Number of inches. Observations. Extreme Red. ooo56i58 64 Mean Red. o0oo0oo32 14 Mean Orange. ?00045 85z 24 Mean Yellow. 00o040583 52 Mean Green. 0o0036549 62 Mean Blue. 0-0037863 22 Mean InIdigo. 0o0029868 52 Extreme Violet. 0o0025o93 093 _49 The observations from which this table was calculated, were made indiscriminately on the maxima and minima of all orders. Those of different orders were of course computed separately, and found to agree without exception in giving the same values of I within limits of error less than those to which the observations are liable; thus affording another proof of the exactness of the law of periodicity above employed. Now, if we compare these, one with another, and with those of c as deduced by M. BlOT from NEWTON'S observations, we shall have as follows: Colour, Values of Values of c -. I C Extreme Red. X ooooo 1I00000 Mean Red. 0?89093 o096zI5 Mean Orange. _o80659 090490 Mean Yellow. 0o72266 '85550 Mean Green. o 6So82 0'79433 Mean Blue. o08520o 0-737Z5 Mean Indigo. o 6 o56964s Extreme Violet. 0'44684. o63000 It appears from this comparative statement, that the forces of polarisation and double refraction -in the body now examined, act with much greater proportional energy on the more refrangible rays than in mica, sulphate of lime, and MDCCCXX. N 9o Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL 0Of the action oJ other similar bodies, and consequently that, even were its axes coincident, its tints, though perfectly regular, would still differ very sensibly from the colours of thin plates. This secondary cause of deviation ought to become sensible in plates cut so as to contain both axes, if examined at a perpendicular incidence; but I have not yet had an opportunity of making the trial. If we calculate on the numbers above given, it will soon appear that a perfect coincidence of all the colours in a single virtual pole is impossible. For this purpose we may employ our equation (i) which easily affords the following cos 9 a + ) =cos 9,a Bil1' tan 9,a. sin ;Pa) cosMa (Cos M)t1 taking M an auxiliary angle such that tan M =V .tanX a. J.sin (._ a) whence the value of o or the position of the coincidence of any two coloured rays becomes known, the values of 1,1P, and ;a being given from the foregoing tables. If we unite the mean red with the mean green, these formula give 0=..11 ad and if with the mean blue, W S-W14 81, of which the one falls short of, and the other exceeds the angle -180 IL given by observation. If we determine by interpolation the values of 1' and a, which give 0 = _ 13011, we shall find very nearly I 84,58 i _ Sa-3 S7, -a +rA 2'4? 898 which correspond to a blue ray strongly inclining to green, and in the brightest part of the colour. Now it is evident that when a rigorous union of all the rays in the proportion in which they exist in white light, is impossible, that of the crystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 91 strongest and brightest colours in opposition to each other will at least ensure the nearest approach to a virtual pole on the principles above demonstrated and a white will thus be produced, not indeed mathematically perfect, bUt containing no marked excess of any of the more powerful colours. The apoplyllite is the only crystal with one axis whose tints exhibit a sensible deviation from the scale of NEWTON. Its phenomena, how-ever, are entirely independent of the first and principal cause which produces the deviation in crystals with two axes, viz, the separation of the axes of differently coloured rays, and are referable solely to the secondary and subordinate cause, of which Rochelle salt has just afforded an examp,?le, viz. a peculiarity in the law which regulates the lengths of the minimum oscillations of the differently coloured rays within the medium. i. The tints of the apophyllite commence at the centre of the rings and increase in regular progression outwards, foblowing the same order, whatever be the thickness of the plate. It follows fromen this, that the multiplier M in our general formula, (a) is the same for all the coloured rays, being zero at the cornncexnent of the scale; and hence it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the axes of all the colours are united in one, and the virtual and actual poles coincide with each other and with the centre. Did any sensible separation of the axes exist, it must become perceptible by the ellipticity of the rings when examined with homogeneous light of that Colour fromn which they are farthest asunder; but with the greatest attention, in plates of considerable thickness, I have not been able to observe the slightest 'shifting of the axis, or deviation from, the circular figure, inr passing from a red to a 92 Mlr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL On the action of violet illumination.Moreover it is evident from the preceding theory, that any difference which may exist in their position, if too small to be sensible to the eye, can produce only an imperceptible deviation of tints. In fact, if we suppose a o for any colour, we get, for the position of the virtual pole, sin_ sinJ'a 0 being the angular distance of the point of coincidence front the single axis of that colour. It is, consequently, insensible when h a is so. Now, the polarising force of the apophyllite being very feeble, the diameters of the rings in any plate of moderate thickness must so far exceed this very minute quantity, that the virtual poles, did any exist, must fall within the limit of the central blackness ; the Newtonian scale would still appear to commence from the centre, nor could any sent sible deviation from it arise from this cause. S. When the prismatic spectrum is passed over an apparatus containing a plate of this mineral, no perceptible change in the magnitudes of the rings for different colours takes place. Hence it appears that the value of the function I for all the coloured rays is nearly alike. By measures taken on a divided apparatus, a slight difference is observed. Taking the mean refractive index R at 1`54i3 (by a very careful measure) and the dispersion OR at o o17, the formula sin O1 t =t* a_ sin 9 Otan O n. cos 9 n gave as followss: Extreme Red. I-oo93O66 Mean Red. 0-00928It Mean Orange. 00092337 Mean Yellow. 0I0091503 Mean Green. o0oo0o643 Meani Blue. 0-0092059 Mean Indigo. o00093964 Extreme Violet. s *Osoo66o? crystallized bodies on homogeneous lights 93 This table, though not given as exact, owfing to imper.. factions in the specimen examined, agrees with the succession of tints which, as far as the fourth order, were as follows: in. Apophyllite. Thickness oo8s9. Incidence. Ordinary pencil. Extraordinary. || o o Bright white . . Black . , . The axis. 13 50 White with a trace of purple White slightly greenish ist maximum o 21 50 Exceeding sombre violet . Pure bright white . illumination. 25 2 z ale greenish yellow . . Purplish white 29 45 White . . * Sombre violet blue 30 50 White * * Extremely sombre violet . ist. minimum. 33 3 White with a strong tinge of violet Pale yellow green 35 50 Blue strongly inclining to purple Greenish white 37 2o Sombre indigo inclining to violet White 38 5 Somibre violet . . White . * , Ad. maximum. 40 1o Tolerably good yellow green . Purplish white 43 S5 White with a trace of yellow . Obscure indigo inclining to purple. 44. 27 White . v Sombre violet . . ad. minimum. 46 45' Pale purple . . Tolerable yellow green 49 57 Sombre purple blue . . Yellowish white 50 30 Sombre violet . . White 3 . 3d. maximum. 53 40 Green yellow . . Pale purple 56 o Yellowish white . . Sombre indigo blue A . 3d minimum. 56 40 Y ellowish white . . Sombre violet White . . . Livid grey 59 35 Pale purple . . Yellow green 6i 45 Sombre indigo . . Pale yellowish white . 4h. maximum. 6z IO Sombre viplet . v . Yellowish white 63 0 Faint violet white . . White Livid grey , . White 66 0 Tolerable green yellow . Purple 69 30 Yellow white c . Very sombre indigo . e 4th minimum. In the colours of thin plates and others of the like composi. tion, the difference in the lengths of the periods of the different rays is so considerable, that after seven or eight alternations of colour the rings confound one another, and are blended into a-uniform whiteness. Were the periods more nearly equal, a greater number of rings should be visible, and were they strictly so, the succession of alternate whiteness and blackness should be continued to infinity. As the values of 94 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action of Ig, &c. in the apophyllite approximate pretty closely to this limit, we should expect to see a much greater number of rings, and this I find to be really the case. By enclosing a thick plate in balsam of copaiba in a proper apparatus to increase the range of incidence, I have counted as far as the 3eth order, when I desisted; not from any want of alternate colours, but owing to their extreme closeness, which rendered it impossible to number them distinctly. Indeed I have no doubt, that could a very thick and limpid specimen be procured, hundreds might be seen without artificial aid. In two instances then, at least, and probably in many more, or perhaps to a certain small degree in all cases, the minimum lengths of the periods deviate in their respective proportions from those of the fits of easy transmission and reflec-. tion ; a circumstance which of itself is sufficient to prove the independence of the causes of these laws of periodicity. If we take R r R A, Fig. 5, P1. V. and construct a curve whose abscissas A P are the values of c, ct. &c. and ordinates those of 1, 1', &c. the straight line royg biv inclined at 45 to A R will represent the locus for crystals, such as carbonate of lime, in which the periods follow the Newtonian law, r'o'y'gb'z'v will represent the same locus for tartrate of soda and potash, while r"o'y"igT"iV"v is the curve similarly traced for apophyllite.*Having communicated to Dr. BR E WST E R my observations on the deviation of tints, and the conclusion I had thence deduced as to the separation of the axes of the differently coloured rays, I received in answer a letter, from which, in justice to that indefatigable observer, I subjoin the following extracts, AMy DEAR SIR, Esk Hill, by Roslin Laswade, Sept. 18, 1819. "In consequence of having been some time from home, I have only now received your letter, and hasten to reply to that part of it in which you request me to state c st If d0e on geou light. gwhat results I had obtained respecting thedeviation of the tints fro-n NaTosX's scale. The foil lowg general points will enable you to 'udge of the progress w~hich I -ad made in the enquiry "x. In almost all crystaltswith two axes there is a deviation from the tint of NzwTvo's scale, " a. This deviation is greater iti some crystals than in other, being a maximum in ,acetate lead and tartrate of Potash and soda, " 3. That all these crystals may be divided into two, classes, viz, thoie which have the red ends of the rings inwards and the blue ends outwards, and those which have the red ends outwards and the blue ends inwards. ". + That irr Ia crystals with two aezsithe doubly refracting force of one axlsin general acts differently upon the differently coloured rays from the doubly refracting force of the tecond axis. " . That as the polarising force is always proportional to the force of double refraction, the polarising force of one axis will act differently on the differently coloured rays from the polarising force of the other axis. 6. 0 lb * * + " 7. The consequence of this is that there will be different resultant axes, or different points of compensation for the differently coloured rays. " 2. All these effects may be calculated with the utmost accuracy, if the ratio of 'the dispersive powers of the two extraordinary refractive forces is given, or vie verad, the dispersive powers may be obtained from the angles of the resultant axes for the red and violet rays of the spectrum. 9 g. I have found crystals in which these phenomena are decidedly connected with the rotatory phenomena ; and from this highly important fact I am led to Conclude, that both have the same origin, and that all the rotatory phe a ar, as I hve statOed in my paper, the result -of the uncompensated tints of two axes, equal jor the mean ray, but unequal for all the rest. (Here follows an illustratin by a diaphragm.) I so. The division mito two classes in I iii. as founded merely on observati is converted Into another division into two classes, viz. x. That in which the doubly refracting forc o the principal axis acts mre powerfully on the blue rays than, te other axis does; and 2. That in which it acts less powerfully. The first clas coa., prehends those crystals in which the blue ends are inwards, and the second those in Which the red ends are inwards, r nearer the principal axis," in a subsequent letter (Oct. 4), he adds, "The virtual poles, which you mention, I discoered in the year iSts, and I have two acnunts of them in my journal, the one signed on the 24th January, ixg6, and 96 Ml;* J. F. W. HERSCHEL Ofl the action ofthe other: 6th January., 1817, by Sir G. MACKENZiE, President of the Physical Clas-s> of the Royal Society." No comments on the above extracts are necessary. They establish at once the priority of Dr. BREWSTER'S observations, and the independence of mine. With regard to'the division of crystals into two classes, which observation has alike suga gested to both of us, it, is unnecessary if we regard either of the two classes as having the angle between the resultant axes greater than a right angle. In Dr. BP aEWST ER'S table, Phil; Trans. 1818, -p. 3 0, succinic acid and sulphate of iron are stated as having this angle 0go. If this determination corresponds, as in all probability it does, to the yellow rays, they belong at once to both classes, and are, in fact, instances of the limit where one class passes into the other. Bi-carbonate of ammonia, in which I can perceive no separation of the axes of different colours, nor of course, any virtual poles, belongs in like manner to both classes, or to neither.JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL.,APPENDIX. Description of an instrument employed in theforegoing expernments on the polarised rings. The singular property possessed by the tourmaline, by which. a plate of it of any moderate thickness cut in a direction parallel to-its axis of double refraction, is enabled to absorb the whole, or nearly the whole,-of an incident pencil polarised in a plane parallel to that axis, was pointed out by* The same property is observable 'in the epidote, the axinite, and all other na. tural and artificial crystals which exhibit any degree of dichroism when examined by unpolarised light. Muriate of palladium and potash possesses it it the highest perfection. This remarkable effect is easily explained by a reference to the general principles laid down by Dr. BREWST ER in his paper on absorption, Phil. Trans. 1819, po Ii. The incident pencil is separated by the doubly refractive force int&s two, oppositely polarised, one of which is partly absorbed, the other emerges. (polarised in its proper plane) of nearly its original intensitys crystallized bodies on homogeneos light. 9 M. BIOT, in the fourth vol. of his Traita de Physique, and he has availed himself of 'it with his accustomed ingenuity, as affording an extremely ready and convenient mode of viewing the phenomena of polarisation, much more so than by the use of plates of agate, prisms of Iceland spar, or a second reflection. It follows, from the above mentioned property that if a beam of ordinary light. be made to traverse such a plate, the whole of the emergent pencil, or nearly so, will be: polarised in a plane at right angles to the axis;, for the incident ray being divided by the doubly refracting, force into two penciis, polarised in' planes, the one parallel, the other perpendicular to the axls, the former is extinguished in its passage, while the latter emerges with nearly its full intensity. Henice, if two such plates are crossed at right angles, though separately very transparent, their combination will be opaque. There is a great difference however, iti the degree in which tourmalines of different colours posess this power. Those of a light green, pink, or bluish colour, are quite improper allowing a considerable portion of light to pass when so crossed, while, on the other hand, those whose colour verges strongly to the honey yellowe or to the hair brown, or purplish browvn, effect nearly a complete absorption and afford, when crossed, a combination almost impervious to light. In gnorance f this distinction, I sacrificed, several fine and valu-able specinmens beforeoI culd obtain proper pltes. When a crystallized lamina, cut in a proper direction, is interposed between such a combination of plate, it disturbs the polarisation which, the light has received in traversing the first plate, and renders a certain -portionof it capable of MDCCcxxo 0 98 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action Of traversing the second : the colour and intensity of this portion varying with the direction of the ray, give rise to the phenomena of the polarised rings, which may accordingly be seen by applying the eye, and receiving on it the dispersed light of the clouds, &c. In order, however, to equalize as well as -disperse the light, which is of great importance to obtaining a perfect view of the phenomena, an emeried glass may be cemented on the anterior plate, or the first surface of the plate itself roughened; but it will be found more convenient in practice to employ a double convex lens of short focus for this purpose, by which, if necessary, a very strong illumination may be obtained, and an extremely minute portion of a crystal subjected to examination. I have thus, occasionallyf examined the rings in a portion not exceeding the hundredth of an inch in diameter, and thus detected irregularities of crystallization of a very singular nature, in many bodies, which would have eluded any other mode of observations For this purpose, the crystal must be cemented over a small aperture in a thin sheet of brass, on which the focus of the lens must be exactly adjusted to fall.* If, instead of applying the eye to receive the light so dis. persed, we place a screen at some distance in a darkened room, the apparatus is converted into a solar microscope, and the rings will be seen projected on the screen. The conow * I have now an apparatus preparing in which the first plate of tourmaline itself is formed into a double convex lens,-by which the loss of light at two surfaces will be suppressed. It is easy to adapt such a lens to a double microscope, for the purpose of detecting microscopic irregularities and I have reason to sup. pose a variety of curious results will be brought to light by these means. cystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 99 struction of the apparatus I employed is as follows. AB is a brass tube, within which are fitted, 1st, a fixed diaphragm, aabb, carrying the first plate of tourmaline in its centre; sdly, a diaphragm, cc d d, moveable freely in its own plane by means of the pin g passing through a slit in the side of the cylinder A B, which occupies an arc of about 12o0 of its circumference. This is destined to receive the crystallized plate dd, while a cylinder, h h e e made to slide and turn smoothly within A B, carries the second tourrmaline;ff. It is essential that the tourmalines employed for this purpose, and especially the posterior one, should be perfectly free from all flaws and blemishes but large plates not being required, this condition is easily satisfied. The plates so arranged, and brought as near together as possible, the extre ifty A,of the cylinder A B, is fitted to slide somewhat stiffly on the brass tube P Q, furnished xwith a lens L, of about two inches focus, and a screw P P, by which it can be adapted to the apparatus usually employed for reflecting a sunbeam into a darkened chamber. rThe sliding motion of the cylinder A B allows the focus of the lens 'to be adjusted so as to fal l exactly on the first surface of the posterior tourmalinef, while its rotation suffers the axis of the anterior one to be placed perpendicular to the plane of reflection. By this arrangement two advantages are gained. The reflector employed (though metallic) always polarises a more or less considerable porry tion of the reflected beam, which 'in any other position is partially, or totally extinguished by the first tourmaline, atid a great loss of light ensues, which it is of the utmost consequence to avoid : moreover, by this disposition,, the action 100 Mr. J. F. W. HERSCHEL on the action, &c. of the reflector is brought to conspire with tla't of the tourmaline, and the polarisation of the light which traverses it (which is never rigorously exact) is thereby rendered more complete. It is convenient to have sliding tubes containing lenses of different focal lengths according to the crystal examined, for the intensity of illumination of any point in the screen being, ceteris paribus, as the square of the focal length, consequently, when the rings lie within a very small angular compass, a greater illumination of every part of them may be obtained by using a lens of a longer focus. The dimensions of the figure, Fig. 6. PI. V. are nearly of the actual size. F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tio~rn.W~ffa~ pA100. X r .N~~~~~~~~~ < v <r.4.~~~~~~rr*~* K iO\ it' I B .II(' 