Extract of a Letter from Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. to Martin Folkes, Esq; President of the Royal Society, concerning the ancient Bridewell at Norwich. S I R, I S H A L L beg the Liberty to give you some Part of a Letter I received lately from Mr. William Arderon of Norwich, which mentions a remarkable Piece of Art as well as Antiquity remaining in that City. Read Nov. 7. 1745. The last Century (says he), and the present, may be allowed, I think to have produced more useful Discoveries than any five since the Creation: But the Lives and Abilities of us poor Mortals are so short and limited, that, whilst we are finding new Arts, others (perhaps not less useful) slip away from us, and are lost: Nor would he deserve much less of Mankind, who can be so happy to restore the Knowledge of a lost Invention, than he that finds out a new one. And it is of no little Service towards the Recovery [521] Recovery of lost Arts, to record that they have been, in order to make them again sought after and restor'd. This City of Norwich affords a remarkable Instance of an Art we have now lost; I mean the wonderful Art, which our Ancestors knew, of cutting or rather breaking Flint Stones into uniform Figures, of equal Sizes, and with smooth and plain Surfaces. Many Remains of this sort are to be seen in our old Buildings; but none is more artificially and regularly finished than the North Wall of our Bridewell, which in Length is one hundred and fourteen Feet, and in Height thirty. This ancient Structure, as all ingenious Strangers agree, is one of the greatest Curiosities of its kind, either in our City or County, and is not perhaps to be outdone in any Part of the known World *. It was built by William Appleyard, the first Mayor of Norwich, who 342 Years ago, that is, in the Year of Christ 1403, held his Mayoralty there: And, what is very strange, this Flint-work appears now as perfect as if it had been finished but Yesterday; whereas the Bricks, which were, after a certain Manner, wrought-in near the Bottom of the Wall, as a Ground* The Gate of the Austin Friers at Canterbury, that of St. John's Abbey at Colchester, and the Gate near WhiteHall, Westminster, are in the same Taste. But the Platform on the Top of the Royal Observatory at Paris, which, instead of being leaded, is paved with Flint after this manner, is an Instance that the French have, in some measure, recovered this Art. C. M. X x x [522] Ground work, are almost intirely rotted away. The Windows and Mouldings, which were built at the same time, of Freestone, are nearly in the same Condition. But these Flints have hitherto defied the devouring Teeth of Time, and will, probably, continue untouch'd for many Ages; being, perhaps, the most durable Way of Building that ever was yet invented. These beautiful Flint-stones are squared to such a Nicety, that the thin Edge of a Knife cannot be insinuated between the Joints without a great deal of Difficulty; and it is no easy Task to make out that they were laid with Lime. Most of them are about three Inches square, and as smooth and level as if they had been ground. They are also laid with such great Exactness, that no Brick-work, or Hewn-Stone, appears more regular in its Courses. I am, S I R, London, Octob. 30. Your most obedient, and 1745. Faithful humble Servant, H. Baker. 