J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. A Letter from Mr. J. Breintal to Mr. Peter Collinson, F. R. S. containing an Account of what he felt after being bit by a Rattle-Snake. I AM much obliged to you for your kind Letter; but you injoin me a sad Task. You must know then, that, on the 2d of last May in the Afternoon, I took a Turn down to the River; and meeting there some Company, we tarried about two Hours. Read April 10. 1746. Philadelphia, Feb. 10. 1746. I hearing a Bell upon the Top of a steep Hill, which I knew to be the Cows of the People where I then quarter'd, and thinking to drive them home, it being almost in a strait Line thither, went right up the Hill; and as it was stony, sometimes I was ready to fall, so saved myself by my Hands, and got safe very near the Top; where either my Foot slipt, or the Stone under it gave Way, and brought me down upon my Knees. I laid my Hand on a broad Stone to stay myself; and, I suppose, the Snake lay on the opposite Side, and might be offended by some Motion of the Stone, so bit my Hand in an Instant, without any Warning or Sight; then slid under the Stones, and sounded his Rattles. I [144] I felt a Sort of Chilness when I heard the Sound; because I had a constant Thought, that if ever I was bit, my Life was at an End. Without Stop I tore up the Stones, resolving to slay my Murderer: At last I found him, crush'd his Head to Pieces with a Stone, took him up in my left Hand, and ran to my Quarters, sucking the Wound on my right Hand as I went, and spitting out the Poison. This kept it easy; but my Tongue and my Lips became stiff and numb, as if they had been froze: So getting quickly home `` I am bit with a Rattle`` snake, and there lies my Murderer!'' casting him down on the Threshold. All Hands were aloft in a Minute; some for one Thing, some another, as they had seen or known in the like Affair; and none seem'd less concern'd than myself, as I thought by their Actions. The first Thing applied was a Fowl; his Belly ript up, and put on my Hand alive, like a Gantlet, and there tied fast. This drew out some of the Poison; for immediately he swell'd, grew black, and stunk. I kept my Elbow bent, and my Fingers up, to keep the Poison from my Arm. Thus I walked about, and set some of the Company to make a Fire on the Green; for, as it fell out, there were 7 or 8 People there more than our Family. It was done quickly, and there we burnt the Snake. Another Hand this while had got some Turmerick. This we bruised well, Tops and Roots; so made a Plaister, and bound it round my Arm, to keep the Poison in the Hand: But Night came on, or else, I believe, it had never gone further than the Hand; for this kept the Arm secure, till Midnight, or past. Nor [145] Nor all this while had I much Pain: My Hand grew cold and numb, but did not swell very much; but now pust up on a sudden, and grew furious; so I slit my Fingers with a Razor, and this gave some Ease. I also slit my Hand on the Back, and cupp'd it, and drew out a Quart or more of ugly poisony slimy Stuff. But my Arm swelled for all we could do: Then I got it tied so fast, that all Communication might be stopped with the Body, that it seem'd almost void of Feeling; yet would it work, jump, writhe and twist like a Snake in the Skin, and change Colours, and be spotted; and they would move to and fro upon the Arm, which grew painful in the Bone. Thus was it ty'd two Days, and all Things applied that could be got or thought on. At last, the Ashes of white Ash-Bark, and Vinegar, made into a Plaister, and laid to the Bite, drew out the Poison apace. My Tongue and Lips swelled that Night, but were not very painful, occasion'd only, I suppose, by sucking the Wound. The Swelling of my Arm being sunk, till it was at least half gone, we then untied it; but, in two Hours, all my right Side was turned black, yet swell'd but little; nor was there any Pain went along with that Change of Colour. I bled at the Mouth soon after, and so continued spitting Blood and feverish four Days. The Pain raged still in the Arm, and the Fever more violent; and by turns I was delirious for an Hour or two. This happen'd 3 or 4 times; and, 9 Days being over, the Fever abated, and I began to mend; but my Hand and Arm were spotted like a Snake, and continued so all Summer. In 8 [150] In the Fall my Arm swell'd, gather'd, and burst; so away went the Poison, Spots and all; Heaven be thanked for ridding me from such a cursed Adversary! But the most surprising and tormenting were my Dreams; for, in all Sicknesses before, if I could but sleep and dream, I was happy so long; being ever in some pleasing Scenes of Heaven, Earth, or Air: On the contrary, now if I slept, so sure I dreamed of horrid Places, on Earth only; and very often rolling among old Logs. Sometimes I was a white Oak cut in Pieces; and frequently my Feet would be growing into two Hickeries. This cast a sort of Damp upon my waking Thoughts, to find my sleeping Hours disturbed with the Operation of that horrid Poison. Thus have I sent you a Narrative of what happened on the fatal Bite, without any Polish, with a Design only to be understood by you. 