The Art of Refining, communicated by Dr. Christopher Merrit. THe end hereof, is the separation of all other Bodies from Gold and Silver; which is performed four ways, viz. By Parting, by the Test, by the Almond Furnace or the Sweep, and by Mercury. PARTING is done with Aqua fortis, which the Refiners make thus, ~ Salt Peter ~ iii. Dantzick Vitriol ~ ii. Let them be well bruised and mixed in a Morter and then put into a Long neck, which is an Earthern Vessel so named from its Figure. Then six or eight of these Long necks thus filled, are placed in each side of their Furnace, on a Range built with Iron Barrs, of the form of a parabola, at above nine Inches distance one from another, and closed at the sides with Bricks. The upper Arches are left open to put in and take out the Pots. Over the said Arches they lay large Bars of Iron, and then cover all the top of the Furnace with Lome, the Body of each Long-neck lying naked to the Fire, the Neck outward; to which the Receivers, whether of Glass or German Pots, are well Luted. Note that if the Vitriol be not Dantzick, which is made with Copper; but English, whch is made with ~ Iron; the Water will be weaker, and make a dirty coloured Verditer, and wholly spoile it; besides, the Silver will not gather so well to the Copper after dissolution, and thereby becomes black. Their Lute is made of good Lome, some Horse Dung, and a little Colcothar; although the two former do well. The luting being well labour'd and applyed, they make a gentle Charcoal fire under the Pots, for three hours, and then increase it for three hours more: about the seventh hour, they make a vehement hot Fire for four hours, and cast in at last well dried Billets of the length of the Furnace, whose flame sur(1047) surroundeth all the Pots, and finisheth therir Work. The next morning they carefully separate the Receivers from the Long-necks. Usually performing this Work but once in 24. hours, sometimes twice. Some Refiners distill 100 lb of the materials put into a CastIron-Pot; which is the best way, especially being perfomed after this latest Invention,viz. Build a Furnace two yards high or more; and at the top place in your Iron-Pot. To which fit a Head of Earth, like the Head of a large Distillatory for Chymical Oyls, which must have a large belly, branching it self, about eight inches from the Iron Pot, into three Branches: one whereof in the midst, comes directly streight forwards, two other lateral ones obliquely: all which Branches are four or five Inches hollow in diameter, and fiveor six long. To these Branches are fited Glass Bodies, narrow and hollow at both ends, large and globous in the midst. These must be exceedingly well luted on with Colcothar, Rags, Flower and Whites of Eggs. To this first Glass-Body is luted on another Glass, of the same figure and size, and in order eight alike in all, till they come to the Receiver, which is an ordinary Gallon Glass. All these Rowes of Glasses lye on boards ~ from the Head to the Receiver. The two upper Receivers or Glass-Bodies need exceeding good Luting, for the rest ordinary Lute will serve. The conveniency of this way is, that a little Fire, and that of New Castle-Coals, will do the work, you save a Longneck for each five pounds of materials, and you need never break or un'ute any of the Receivers, but the lowermost. The Aqua fortis being distilled off, is put into a large Earthen Pot, and there is added of fine Silver, one or two peny weight (which is called Fixes) to every pound of Aqua sortis, which within four hours will purge it from all dirt and impurity, and make it fit for Parting, which is thus done. If their Silver guilt be fine enough for Wire they only melt it in a Wind-furnace,and cast it melted into a large Tub of water, that they may have it in small pieces. But if it be but standard, they first fine it on the Test. These small pieces taken from the water, being well dryed, are put into a Glass taperfashion, (1048) fashion, a foot high, and seven inches at the bottom; and then the Glasses are charged with Aqua fortis about two thirds of it, and set in a Range of Iron-covered two inches deep with Sand, and a gentle Charcoal fire made under it. Small bubles will-soon arise, and the water also run over. If so, they take off the Glasses, and hold them, till it doth deservescere, or else pour some of it into a Vessel which isat hand. If Lead be mixed with it, they cannot keep it from running over. When the Water hath oncebeen quieted, from this Ebullition, it will rise no more. The greenness of the Water, manifesteth the quantity of Copper contained in it. If the water boil over, 'twill penetrate the Bricks and Wood. They commonly let it stand a night on the Iron Range, with a gentle heat under it, and in the morning softly pour off the water impregnated with all the Silver; all the Gold lying, like black dirt, at the bottom, which being washed out is put into small Parting-Glasses, and set over the Sand with fair Conduit-water for an hour,and then the water poured off. This is repeated five or six times, to seperate the Salt from the Gold,which is now fit to be melted,and Cast into an Ingot. To regain the Silver they have large round Washing. Bowls, lined within with melted Rosin and Pitch (for otherwise the Water would eat the Wood and penetrate the sides of the Bowl) covered with Copper Plates ten inches long, six wide, and half or more thick. Into which Bowles they pour good store of water (the more, the better the Verditer) and then the Silver-water: which working on the softer Metal of Copper, leaves all the Silver in most fine Sand at the bottom, and sides of the Bowl and Plates of Copper; which being taken out, is washed, dryed and melted for any use. Concerning the Plates 'tis observable, That if any Brass or shroffe Metal be in them; they gather very little of the Silver, the latter mixing with the Silver, as 'twas proved at the Tower by a Finer questioned for his Silver. With the Copper-Water poured off from the Silver, and Whiting, Verditer is made thus. They put into a Tub a hundred (1049) hundred pound weight of Whiting, and thereon poure the Copper-Water, and stir them together every day, for some hours together. And when the Water grows pale, they take it out, and set it by for further use, and pour on more of the Green-Water,and so continue till the Verdter be made. Which being taken out, is laid on large pieces of Chalk in the Sun, till it be dry for the Market. The Water mention to be taken from the Verditer,is put into a Copper, and boil'd till it comes to the thickness of Water gruel, now principally consisting of Salt Petre reduced (most of the Spirit of Vitriol being gone with the Copper into the Verditer.) A dish full whereof being put into the other Materials, for Aqua fortis, is redistill'd, and makes a double-water, almost twice as good, as that without it, and sold for neer a double value. 1 COME next to the second way of Refining, sc. by the TEST. This seperates all Metals from Silver, except Gold, because they swim over it, when they are all melted together. The Test is thus made. They have an Iron Mould, oval, and two inches deep. At the bottom hereof,are three Arches of Iron set at equal distances, two fingers wide, if the great diameter of it be fourteen inches long; and so proportionably in greater or lesser Tests. This cavity they fill with fine powder of Bone-ashes moistned with Lixivium made with Soap-ashes. Some use Cakes of Pot ashes or other Ashes well cleansed, and so pressed well together with a Muller, that it becomes very close and smooth at the top. There is left above a Cavity in the midst of it, to contain the melted Silver. This Cavity is made greatest in the middle; for the Bone-Ashes come up parallel to the circumference of the Mould; only a small Channel in that end, which is most remote from the blast, for the running off of the baser Metals, and so is made declive to the centre of the Test, where 'tis not above half an inch deep. The Test thus made, is set annealing 24. hours, and then it is fit for use, in this manner. 'Tis set in a Chimney a yard high, parallel almost to the Nose of a great pair of Bellows, and then therein is put the Silver. Which being covered all over with Billets of barqued Oak, the blast begins and continues all the while (1050) while strongly. The Lead purified from all Silver, (which they call the Soap of Metals) first put in, melts down with the Silver, and then the Lead and Copper swim at the top, and run over the Test. Whose motion the Finer helps with a long Rod of Iron drawn along the surface of the Silver towards the forementioned slit, and often stirring all the Metal, that the impurer may the better rise: and by continuing this course, seperation is made in two or three hours. The greatest part of the Lead flies away in smoak. If the Lead be gone before all the Copper, 'twill rise in small red firy bubbles; and then they say, the Metal Drives, and must add more Lead. The force of the blast drives the higher Metals to the lower side of the Test, and helps its runing over. When the Silver is fully fined, it looks like most pure Quicksilver; and then they take off their sogs and let it coole. In the cooling, the Silver will frequently from the middle spring up in small Rayes and fall down again. If moist Silver be put into that which is melted, 'twill spring into the fire. A good Test will serve two or three firings. So soon as the Silver will hold together, they take it out of the Test, and beat it on an Anvile into a round figure, for the Melting Pot: which being set in a Wind-Furnace, surrounded with Coal, and covered with an Iron Cap, that no Charcoal fall into it, is then melted. If any Dross or filth be in the Melting-Pot, they throw in some Tincal, which gathers the dross together that it may be separated from it. These Melting-Pots are never burned, but only dryed, and will last a whole day, if they be not suffered to cool: but if they once cool, they infallibly crack. NEXT IS the ALMOND-FURNACE or Sweep. Here are separated all sorts of Metals from Cinders, parts of Meling-Pots, Tests, Brick, and all other harder bodies; which must be first beaten into small pieces with a hammer, and an Iron Plate; and 'tis one mans work. Those which stick but superficially to their Silver, they wash off thus; they have a Wooden round Instrument two foot wide, somewhat hollow in the middle, with a handle on each side. On this they put the Materials, and hold them in a Tub of (1051) of Water below the surface, and so waving it to and fro, all the lighter and looser matter is separated from the Metal. The Furnace is six feet high, four feet wide, and two feet thick. Made of Brick; having a hole in the midst of the top eight inches over, growing narrower towards the bottom of it, where, on the fore part, it ends in a small hole, environed with a semicircle of Iron to keep the molten Metal. About the middle of the Back, there is another hole to receive the Nose of a great pair of Bellows, requiring continually the strength of two lusty men. The night before they begin, Charcoal is kindled in the Furnace to Anneal it: and when it is hot, they throw two or three shovels of Coal, to one of the forementioned Stuff,and so proceed during the whole Work,making stratum super stratum of one and the other. After eight or ten hours the Metal begins to run; and when the Receiver below is pretty full, they lade it out with an Iron Ladle, and cast it into Sows in Cavities or Forms made with Ashes. They frequently stop the passage-hole with Cinders to keep in the heat; and when they think a quantity of Metal is melted, they unstop the hole to pass it off. If the Stuff be hard to flux, they throw in some slag (which is the Recrement of Iron) to give it fusion. Their Irons melt away apace, wherewith they proak out the Cinders from the hole. A stinking blue smoak proceeds from the Furnace, and all by-standers put on the colour of dead men. The workmen must be well lined with Oyl, Sack,Strong Beer,and good Victuals: for the Work continues three days and nights without intermission, using no other variety, than above said. A large Cavity will be made in the Furnace: for the Metals or the Fire, or both together corrode and wear the greatest part of the bricks away. To get the Silver from these Metals, they now use no other Art, than that of the Test. To Refine their Copper from the Litharge, they formerly laid their Ingots of Lead and Copper on Loggs of Wood fired, which would easily melt down the Lead or Tinn, and so leave the Copper full of holes wherein the Lead had been lodged. But now they commit this work also to the Test. 6 Y The (1052) THE LAST way of Separation is by Quick-silver. And this is for filings of small Workers and Goldsmiths, wherein Gold and Silver are mixed with dust, &c. This dust is put into a Hand-mill with Quick-silver, and being continually turned upon that, and the Metals, an Amalgama is made of them, and fair water poured in, carrys off the dust as it runs out again by a small Quill. This Amalgama is put into an Iron with a Bolt Head, set into the fire, having a long Iron-neck three feet long, to which is fitted a Receiver. The fire distils off the Mercury into the Receiver,and the Gold and Silver remain in the Bolt Head. 