(262) VI. Part of two Letters concerning a Method of procuring the Small Pox, used in South Wales. From Perrot Williams, M. D. Physician at Haverford West, to Dr. Samuel Brady, Physician to the Garrison at Portsmouth. However new the Method of communicating the Small Pox may appear in this Kingdom; yet I am to acquaint you, that it has been commonly practised by the Inhabitants of this Part of Wales (Pembrokeshire) time out of mind, though by another Name, viz. that of buying the Disease, as I have been long ago acquainted by several, who procured the Distemper by that means. There is a married Woman in the Neighbourhood of this Place, who practised it on her Daughter, about a Year and a half ago, by which Means she had the Small Pox favourably, and is now in perfect Health, notwithstanding she has ever since, without Reserve, conversed with such as have had that Distemper this last Summer. In order to procure the Distemper to themselves, they either rub the Matter taken from the Pustules when ripe, on several Parts of the Skin of the Arms, &c. or prick those Parts with Pins, or the like, first infected with the same Matter. And notwithstanding they omit the necessary Evacuations, such as Purging, &c. yet, as I am inform'd, they generally come off well enough; and what's remarkable, I cannot hear of one Instance of their having the Small Pox a second time. 2 A Learned (263) A Learned and very Ingenious Gentleman of this Country told me not long since, that above twenty Years ago, when at School, he and several of his Schoolfellows, (how many I don't exactly remember) infected themselves at the same time, from the same Person, and that not one of them miscarry'd, though he had more of the Small Pox than he design'd. I am satisfy'd he will readily give a more particular Relation of this Affair, if desired. I am sorry he happens at present to be at a considerable Distance from this Town, otherwise I would have been more exact in this Account. Haverford West, Sept. 28. 1722. Perrot Williams. I Should not have so long omitted the Return of my Thanks, for the Favour of yours of Oct. 15. but that I hitherto waited an Opportunity to speak with the Gentleman, whom I mention'd in my last. His Name is George Owen, a Counsellor at Law, eldest Son to Dr. Owen, formerly Archdeacon in the Diocese of St. David's. He solemnly declares, that having, when at School, as I formerly said, rubb'd the Skin off his Left Hand, where the Scar is now very visible, with the back Edge of his Penknife, till the Blood began to appear, he apply'd the variolous MatT 2 ter (264) ter to that part; which by Degrees growing inflam'd, about a Week afterwards he fell into the Small Pox; and that he has since frequently conversed with such as were sick of that Distemper. He says also five or six more at least of his Schoolfellows made the like Experiment on themselves, at the same time, with the like Success. I have since talk'd with several more, who made the like Experiments on themselves, some twenty, some sixteen, &c. Years ago: who all positively affirm, they never had the Small Pox a second time. Haverford West, Nov. 23. 1722. Perrot Williams. VII. 