III. Description of a Species of ClJtodon called by tt>e MalaysS Ecan bonna. ay Mr. William Bell, Satrgeon in the Service of tbe East India Compoznyn at Bencoolen Communicated by Sir Joseph 13anks, Bart. P. R. S. Read January 17 17930 r n v HE fish called Ecvn bonna7 by the Malays, is broad, flatf and of a lead colour; the belly is flat, whitej and in places tinged Witll green. The eyes are a lzright yellow. The body is covered with small semicircular scales. Its length is generally about eighteen inches7 its breadth thirteen and, at the thickest part, it is nearly three inches thick-. It is frequently caught at Bencoolens and several other parts on the w-est coasts of Sumatra, and is said to grow to a much larger size. Its flesh is whitea firm, and well flavoured and it is considered as a good fish for the table. It has six firls: two pectoral, two ventral, one dorsal7 and one anal fin. The tail is broad, and of a triangular form. The pectoral fins -are smalln blunted at their ends and placed a little behind the gills. The ventral fins are placed on the sternum9 and are longer, and more pointed. The dorsal fin arises at tlle beginning of the spinous proce.sses of the back, and is continued down nearly to the tail. The anal fin arises a little below the anus, and is also contiMr. BELL'S Description efQ onued on almost to the tail. It is strong and broad, like the dorsal, and projectsha little farther backward tharl it. Theimouth is small, and each jaw contains fi-ve rows of small teeth, about the thickness of hog's bristles, and of equal thickness throughout their length. The grindinga orcutting surfaces of the frorlt, second, and third rows, in both iaws.> are divided into three pointsv The two inner rows are pointeds and bent a little backwardO The stomach was empty, so that I had not all opportunity of ascertaining its food. The intestinal canal was long like that of fish which feed on vegetables, and the oesophagus was thick set with pyramidal bodies like the cesophagus of the turtles The skeleton is very singular, luany of the tones having tulnours which, in the first fish I saw, I supposed to be esostoses aristug from disease but on dissecting a second, fourld the corresponding bones laad exactly the same tumours, and the fishermen informed m-e they were always found in this fishX I tllerefore conclude them to be natural to itv t In Mr. HUNTE1l>S collection are tsvo or three of these tonesS but I nearer knew what fisll they belonged to, they were supposed to be froln the back of some of the Iarge .rayse ., What advantagecan arise from these Iarge tumours is difficult to sayX Those on the spines of the vertebr seem to an swer no evident purpose, nor those at the origin of the dorsal and anal fins. The particular form of tlle sternum, to which the ventral fins are joined, seems to be intended to gisregreater surfice for the attachmeilt of the lnusclesa and to ircrease their action PAZZOJ WrarS. MVCCSCIII. 3aD. v ll JFl a Species of ChatodoneTh-ese tumours are spongy, and so soft as to be easily GUt with a knife, they were filled with oil. The air-bladder is very large, for the size of the fishs pro bably to counteract the weight of tlie bony matter in the skeleton. It is generally caught near the shoren where there are sea weedst and the Malays say it is a dull swimmere Tabe V. Represents the fish herein describede Tab. VI The skeletola of the same.MDCG2CIIIo 