An Account of Dr Ehm's Treatise of St George's Bath by Landeck, in the Lordship of Glats near Silesia. P. 8. HE gives an account of this Water, that it fills a Basin of 21 Foot long, 10 broad, and 5 foot deep, every 4 hours. 10. The Smell is a little sulphureous, especially at a distance. The Taste a little sulphureous and saline, but not at all subacid. 11. The Heat is but temperate in Summer, in Winter much greater. There was Gall in Powder put to the Water, but it did not turn black. 14. Ol. Tartar. p. Deliquium, Spiritus Salis Armoniaci, and many Mineral Acid Spirits mixt with it, made no Alteration; nor did the Solution of fine Silver in Aq. fort. make any Change or Precipitation. 17. The Bath-Water is conveyed into a Copper, where it is made to seeth by Artificial Heat, and is afterwards brought into the common Baths to encrease the Heat as the particular Cases require. 2. He (2347) 2. He ascribes much virtue to a sort of earthy ~ contain'd in the Water. (At this I much wonder, for he seems only to describe a Clay or sort of Fullers Earth, that holds very little Medical Virtue.) He supposes also a Sulphur and Nitre to be conceal'd in the Water, (but it does not appear in his Examen Chymicum) by which Ulcers are heal'd, Coagulations are dissolved, relax'd Nerves are strengthened, Scabs and Leprous Affections cured, &c. The following Chapters give a more particular account of the several Distempers for which these Bathings are used; as also Cautions in what Cases to forbear the use of Bathing. The warmth of these Waters seems not to exceed the tepid Heat of Bristol Well. It seems strange that they have not Courage enough to try the virtue of these Waters internally; especially since the Contents of these Waters are very few, if any, that are gross or fixt: The Taste is scarce differing from pure Limpid Water; and what is more strange, in his Experiment with the Solution of Silver, he says, they discover'd no precipitation or perturbation of the Waters, whereas we know scarce any Water (except Rain Water) that does not suffer a Change by this Solution, when mixt with it. L O N D O N: Printed for Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Prince's ~ in St Paul's Church-yard. 