An Extract of a Letter of Mr. Lister to the Publisher, both enlarging and correcting his former Notes about Kermes; and withal insinuating his conjecture of Cochineil's being a sort of Kermes. Sir, WE must correct as well as enlarge our Notes concerning Kermes*; and yet there will be much difficulty in resolving the question concerning the Original and Efficient of Kermes. These things are certain: * Compare herewith, what was publish't in No. 71. p. 2165. No.72. p.2177. especially No.73. p.2196. 1. That we have this year seen the very Gumm of the Apricock and Cherry:lamrel-Trees transudated, at least, standing in a Crystal=drop upon some (though very rarely) of the tops of these Kermes. 2. That they change colour from a yellow to a dark-brown: that they seem to be distended and to wax greater, and from soft, to become brittle. 3. That they are fill'd with a sort of Mites; that small powder (which I said to be Excrement,)being Mites as well as that Liquamen or softer pulp (which I took to be Bees-meat;) concerning both which particulars I am pretty well assur'd by my own, and also by my ingenious friend, Dr. Johnson of Pomfret's more accurat Microscopical Observations. C g g g g 4. That (5060) 4. That the Bee-grubbs actually feed on Mites, there being no other food for them. 5. That there are other Species of Bees or Wasps besides those by me described; which are sometimes found to make these Mites their food: Dr. Johnson having open'd one Husk, with one only large Maggot in it. 6. That there are probably different sorts of Mites in these Huskes, making possibly different species of Kermes: For, some I have found to hold Carnation colour'd Mites, enclosed in a fine white Cotton, the whole Husk starting from the Twigg, shrivelling up, and serving only for a Cap or Cover to that company of Mites. Other Mites I have seen white,and (which is most usual) the Husks continuing intire and not coming away from the Twigg they adhere to, and but little Cotton at the bottom. Those of the first sort are the white Cob-webbs on the Vine, described by Mr. Hook Micrograph. Obs. 56. 7. That the shrivell'd Cap to be found upon the Mites inclosed in Cotton, as also the whole Husk itself, if taken early in April, while soft, will, dried in the Sun, shrink into the very figure of Cochineil: Whence we guess, that Cochineil may be a so~t of Kermes, taken thus early and sun-dried. Hitherto this Summers Notes concerning Kermes. This advantage at least we may have by them; that the account, ta~ken from M. Verney by Dr. Croon, and publish't in one of the Transactions, * is made more intelligible: the small scarlet powder, there mention'd, being to be understood of those Mites; and they to be distinguish't from the Bee-grubbs, which are chang'd into the Skipping Fly, that is, the Bee, (for kind at least) by us described formerly, I am, &c. York Octob.9. 1671. See Numb. 20. p. 362. 