[844] LXXIV. An Account of a Specimen of the Labour of a Kind of Bees, which lay up their Young in Cases of Leaves, which they bury in rotten Wood: In a Letter to Daniel Wray, Esq; F. R. S. from Sir Francis Eyles Styles, Bart. F. R. S. S I R, Battersea, June 11, 1760. I Send you by the bearer a specimen of of the labour of a kind of bees, who lay up their young in cases of leaves, which they bury in rotten wood. I make no doubt but they are the same, which are described in the Transactions of the Royal Society, by Sir Edmond King, Mr. Francis Willoughby, and Dr. Lister. See Lowthorp's abridgment, vol. ii. p. 772, & seq. Read June 12, 1760. Mons. Reaumur, in his History of Insects, tom. vi. p. 39. describes a kind of bees, which he calls percebois (wood-borers). But these, he tells us, form no cases for their young, but lay them in the holes they make in the wood, without other covering, except artificial floors, which they make of the same wood, to divide the length of the holes into separate lodgements, each of which contains a single bee. In p. 97. of the same volume, he describes another kind of bees, which he calls coupefeuilles (leaf-cutters); and the description, which he gives of their work, seems to answer to the specimen I send you. But he tells us, that all the specimens he had ever found, or been able to collect, of their labours, were taken out of [845] of the ground; and seems unwilling to rely on what he met with in Ray, concerning the depositing these cases of leaves in rotten willows. Mons. Reaumur's words are as follows. `` Entre les coupeuses, et meme entre les coupeuses `` de feuilles de Rosier, il y en a, qui scavent placer `` leurs etuis dans des lieux, ou ils peuvent se con`` server sains plus longtemps, si, comme Ray le rap`` porte, mais ce qu'il a neglige de dire qu'il avoit `` vu, les etuis de feuilles, qu'il a decrits, avoient ete `` reellement tires de trous perces dans du Bois de `` Saule pourri. Pour moi je n'en ai encore vu `` qu'en terre, et ceux qui me sont venus de divers `` endroits, ont tous ete tires de terre.'' As Mons. Reaumur questions the truth of the account he met with, it may, perhaps, be agreeable to the Royal Society, to have a sight of the work in question; and, if you think so, I shall be obliged to you, if you will take the trouble of shewing it to them, at their next meeting. I should have told you, that the specimen was found in some park pales near Windsor, the latter end of last summer, by some workmen, who brought it to Mr. Lee, nurserygardener at Hammersmith, from whom I received it. One of the bees hatched, and crawled from his case, under my eye, on Whitsunday last; and, by an empty case I saw, that was broke open much in the same manner, I imagine another had hatched, and flown away a little before. The remainder, I presume, will not come to life, as I observe, that some foreign insect has made its way into some of the cases; and others may have been chilled in the winter, by the fracture of the wood, in which they were inclosed. I have 5 Q 2 destroyed [846] destroyed some of the cases, in examining them; but there are enough left in their original situation, to shew how they are contrived and disposed. I am, S I R, Your most obedient humble servant, F. H. Eyles Styles. 