J S T O R Philosophical Transactions Please note: Due to an error in the print volume, the page numbering in this article may contain either page numbering skips, or page numbering repetitions, or both. However, the article content is presented in its entirety and in correct reading order. Please click on ``Next Page'' (at the top of the screen) to begin viewing the article. The Description of a Celestial Globe, artificially made, shewing the Apparent Motions, from East to West, and from West to East, of the Sun, Moon, and Fixed Stars: Made by Monsieur Didier L'Alleman, Master Watchmaker at Paris, and communicated to the Publisher in French, and here by the same made English. THis Globe hath been made conform to the Observations of the most famous Astronomers of this Age, and directed by Monsieur Antonine Agarrat, Professor of the Mathematicks at Paris. 6 C 2 The (906) The bigness of it is only of four Inches diameter. The body of the Globe of burnish't Steel, where all the figures of the Constellations are designed in Silver-colour, but the Stars themselves of all Magnitudes are put on in embossed Gold. This Globe moves from East to West in 24 hours; and you may there see the Sun exactly rise and set as in the great World, together with the Moon, as also the Stars of the Constellations; likewise how the Sun of this Globe comes to his Meridian, with an admirable regularity, conform to the Primum mobile. Besides this, you may there see, that every day the Sun sensibly passeth one degree from West to East, which is its own proper motion finished by him in a year, and thereby describing to us the Inequality of Days and Nights. Moreover, you may there observe every day the Mean motion of the Moon from West to East, how she increaseth according as she removeth from the Sun, so that it shews visibly the first quarter of the Moon,the end of the second quarter which is the Full; then the third quarter which is the last quadrature, and lastly her Conjunction with the Sun. And thus she is seen to finish every month her Synodical Course; and by her diurnal motion of 24 hours she shews the Flux and Reflux of the Sea,or high and low water. The Meridian ~ for a Needle to shew the Hours which are marked upon the Zodiack, where the Sun marcheth regularly, which hath two main rays,one whereof goeth directly Northward, the other South-ward. That of the North marks the way or degree, which the Sun maketh from West to East upon the Signs of the Zodiack,and upon a Circle of Silver, where the 360 Degrees of the Circle are marked. The other ray,of the South,marks upon another Circle of Silver the days of the Month, where the 365 days are noted. This Globe may generally serve for the whole World, seeing you may put it to all the Elevations of the Pole. The Circles of the Longitude of the Stars, which separate the Signs and which come from the Poles of the Zodiack,are marked by gold-wires; as also the Equator,the Tropicks,and the Polar Circles. There is but one great Spring,the primum mobile, which puts all the rest in motion. It is wound up by the Antarctique Pole, and you may wind it up to the right or left hand, without wronging (907) wronging any contrary motion. And by the Arctique Pole, you may advance and retard this movement, if you should find any inequality, without altering at all the great Spring. So far the Description of this artificial Globe; of which we hope we shall very shortly know the price. A Description of the Diamond mines, as it was presented by the Right Honourable, the Earl Marshal of England, to the R. Society. 