-: 283 2 0 XIV. =d Narrcltave of tbe EartbquakeJ7elt in Lincolnshire, and the neigbbouring Counties, on tbe 2Sth of Februaryg 1792. In a Letter fronz Edmund Turnor, Esq. F. A. S. to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. P. R. S. Read May o, oy92. DEAR SIR WHEN I heard of the earthquake of the ,tth of February last, which was felt in Lincolrlshire, and sollle of the neighbouring counties, about a quarter before nine in the evening} I immediately wrote to my friend Captain PENNYMAN, at Little Paunton, near Grantham, desirillg him to inform me of the duration alld extent of the shock, the direction it came in; and the state of the ureather before and after it was perceived. His remarks, together with the subsequetlt. ilzfiormation I have obtained, great part of which I derive from yo-ur obliging comnunication,-may serve to record this recent instance of a phnornenon to the terrors of which this country is butXlittle exposed. Lord RA\VDON3S stew-ard was sitt:ing witll 11is back against Donningto an old massy stacle of chimneys, which gave him a sensible cestelshl;e. shosre; he at the same time saw the cllairs of other persons in the room move very visibly. .Lord Rawdov's inforelatio?z to Szr yoseph Banks 284Mr. EDMUND TURNOR'S Narrative of tbeIsyndon, An earthquake vvTas felt all over this county. What I felt, R * and it was the general description given of it, was, that it came with a rattling noise, something like wheels running over a pavement, and a trembling shalie, which those who were leaning against a ua11 felt rnore than those who were standingX or sitting upright. It lasted a considerable time; difFerent people estimated it from a quarter of a minute to a minute. Several tllought the noise and shake came from the north or the north-east; and indeed, I think I heard more of it fror3z the northuTard than the southward of us. Some thought tlley heard a thump, as of a heavy thing falling dowIl; bllt the rattling and silaklng were much more taken notice of. Several persons at first suspected it might be a ball of fire, but no such thing svas seen; and nlany were immediately sensible it must Ive antearthquake, especially those svho had felt one before. No material hurt was done by it; some ho were standing were seen to reel, -and one who was walking was thrown against a vvall by it, but not hurt; a stack of \NTOOd was throw-l down, and some said a chinlney. F I 11eard of it -Newari. as fax as Newark, in Nottinghamshire; and it was said to be Biggtefelt at Bigglesurade, in Bedfordshire. The seasoll svas at the Swade conclusion of a frost, there had been a little raill, and a thaw was beginning. The barometer gradually fell frorn the 23d to the 26tl1-the thermometer was as ulider: 2Ist,morn. 16.5; 22d,%7.3; 23d,2z.3; zAth,:4.o; 2sth,34.g; 26th,3g.8; z7th,+O.2 aftern. 28.0; 32*6; 33#2; 3g.o; 38*o; 45.5; 52.2 I felt the earthquake of September go, z7gSo, as I did this, and heard the sarne rattling rloise, and lny seat shook Ullder me. Many others heard and felt the salue; but some Earthquakefielt in Lincolnshire. tSN described it as the falling down of a weight. September, z71So, nvas almost all a calm, dry, and hot season, scarce a breath of wind, or a glimpse of sun. The end was cooler; but drtr and calln, as before. The Soth was cloudy alld calm, but there was a gentle svind for sorne titne after the earthquake. Thoynas Barker Esq. in a letler to Mr. rlurHorO The eartllquake at Nottingham, as felt by Dr. \5/-HtTE) was Nottillgo undulatory in hoth slloicks ; but? in the second, he perceived the direction of the shock to be a little inclined to the horizon, towards the south-east. At Langar, its noise was like that of a Lallgal. heavy carriage driving rapidly along. Here the shock was felt by one or more persolls, but not by all in the salne roonl. I-ts direction was from west to east. It was felt at Derby very Derby. -slightly; and was of no great extent from north to south in these parts, as it was not felt at Harborough to the south, nor at Chesterfield to the north. It was sharply felt at Stamforcl, Stamford. and Wandesford, but laot at Alconbury. NVandesThe Rev. JUdw. Gregory's information to Mr Turnor. l'he shock seemed to be perpendicular, up and down, as if Belsoir part of the castle had given way ; no noise was perceived Cas le but vitld. Mr. Kingvs information to ME. Turnor.: The mornirag presented a tTlick fog, which contillued all-the Little Patlizt day ; the air extremely heavy and close. About half past eight colnshire. in the evenillg a laoise came on resembling thullder, which lasted nearly half a minute, vvhen two undulatory motions, in the quickest succession, svere felt; a gust of wind) for soine <:secolldsv instantarleously succeeded, and in about five nlinutes MDGCSCII)? ; 286Mr. EDMUND TURNOR'S Narrative of tbeit rained hearry and large drops, which continued some time. The windows, window-bells, pewter upon shelves, &c. gave ample evidence of the agitation. Its direction was frozn northitranston. west to south-east. It svas slightly felt at Branston, though not at Linco]n. Captain Pennymann in a letter to Mr TurnorO Beiton. We were all much alarmed by a violent and sudden shock of an earthquake ;it made the house at Belton shake, and was followed hy a violent gust of windn and a noise like tllunder, which lasted about six or seven seconds. I really thought my chair was sinking into the ground and, after I had recovered myself, I BJas not convinced that one of the frolats of the house,or a chinaney, had not given way, till I had been in all the roorns, where I found every thillg in its place. All the other servants felt it as I did, and the neighbours in the village thought their houses nTere going to fall upon thetn. It was Grantham. felt at Grantham, lManthorpe, and other towns in the neighManthorpe. b h d Cbr. Drigield, in a letter to Lord Brownlow. PeterboAn uncommon rutnbling noise was heard round my preg mises, llo yards, resembling that occasiolled by drawing a large garden roller slowly over the pavement. The sound did not appear like thunder over the head, but upon or llear the ground. The like, in every respect, happened October 27th, <776> about a quarter before ten at night. Rev. Alrchdeacon Brown, in a letter to Mr. Turnor. Bostons The earth(luake was felt arld heard by a lady at Bo$tonj who declared so at the tirne it happerled, and said, she wtas Evrtbquake felt in Lincolnshire.287-sure it was sometlaing exraordinary, tlaougll rlo orue :else in the tovvn observed it, orpaid any attention to her till tlle news of its :having been felt at other places arrived Mr. Fyatel's ieformation to Sir yosepX Banksc Tlole Transactiolls of the Royal Sc)ciety give an accoLltlt of thezearthgakes ifn the nortllern parts of E-lglands ill tlae years z703 and o7tSo. lthat of the latter year is described as cc hegin; nitlg in Derbyshire, arld passing offthe island, tlarougll Lin;; colnshire and part of Cambridgeshire, its directiotl being fronl sc west to east.' < Fl om the precedillg Ilarrative it appears, that nearly the same tract of counfry was aiMected by tlae late con cussion, and that it came in the same direction from west to east; circumstarlces whicll corresporld with the observatiolls of Mr. MECHEL; 1St. CC That the sarne places are subject to re (-c turns of earthquakes at different intervals of time ;"-2dly, c; Tllat eartllquakes generally come to the same place from Xc one and the same point of tlle compass." These and other facts, that illgenious philosopher adduces in support of his hypothesis that earthquakes are caused by the steam raised by waters, corltainecI in the cavities of the eartll suddenly rushing ill upon stlbterraneous fires; svhich steam, the tnoment lt is generated, itlsinuates itself bel;ween the strata of the earth, and prodllces the undulatory motion beforementioned. It may, howtever, be remarked that the state of the airX before the shock, svas calm, close, and gloorny, such as is described by Dr. STUKELEY as llecessary to prepare the eartll to receive all electrical stroke, and the circumstance of its laaving * Phil. Trans. Vol. XL. p. 7z z.p pg 288 Mr. EDMUND TURNORES Narrativea &c. been partially felt in the same rootn may be supposed to favour that hypothesis; but yet the CONGUSSiOn seems not to have been so strong on the eminence at Belvoir Castle, as it svas in the neighbouring vale. I have the honour to be &c. March IO) I792! EDM TURNQ, 