A Narrative of some Observations made upon several Voyages, undertaken to find a way for sailing about the North to the EastIndies, and for returning the same way from hence hither: Together with Instructions given by the Dutch East-India Company for the Discovery of the famous Land of Jesso near Japan. To which is added a Relation of sailing through the Northern America to the East-Indies. Englished by the Publisher out of Dutch, which had been compos'd by Dirick Rembrantz van Nierop, and printed at Amsterdam. 1674. in 4o. AMongst the several wayes, by eminent Navigators thought upon, for sailing to the East-Indies, that seems not the least considerable, which hath been proposed and attempted to be perform'd by the North-East. William Barentz, an experienced Pilot and stout Seaman of the Neatherlands, in his Voyages of the Year 1594. and 1596, sailed Northward as far as to 77 20. with an intention to have turn'd to the North-East, until he should by estimate find, he had in that course advanced far enough to change his course into that of South-East or South, and so to discover Chinay, Catay, or Japan: But he was diverted from this purpose by his company, though he persisted until death in that opinion of his, viz. that that way of sailing far to the North of Nova Zembla, where there was a spatious Sea, free from Ice, and less cold than at a more Southerly Latitude, was the most probable way of discovering the East-Indies on that side of the World. Upon this Supposition divers Voyages have been attempted with the like intention: And though hitherto the Attempt hath been made that way, only from the side of Europe; yet that famous Seaman, (198) man, Joris van Spilbergen, would have adventured a Voyage the same way from the side of the East-Indies, if with much importunity he had not been dissuaded from it. And though we have not yet heard of any that hath actually undertaken such a Voyage; yet something hath been done, whence some estimate may be made of the condition of those parts. For, it having been taken for granted, that to the North or NorthEast of Japan there is found a large spacious Sea, and the Japoneses having been heard to talk much of a Country called Jesso or Eso, but believing it to lye to the North-west of Japan, on the Coast of Catay or Tartary, and this Kingdom of Catay being much celebrated for its opulency and shipping; the Council of the Dutch East-India Company at Batavia, in the Island of Java, gave A. 1643. very particular Instructions to Martin Geritsen Vries, Captain of the Ship Castrikum, set out to discover the unknown East-coast of Tartary, the Kingdom of Catay, and the West-coast of America, together with the Isles scituate to the East of Japan, cryed up for their richness in silver and gold. Those Instructions containing many particulars that are not ordinary, we shall not spare our labor of giving them here in English, out of the above-nam'd Rembrantz of Nierop. 1. Amongst the best Geographers, Tartaria is reckon'd to be one of the greatest parts of the World, having in longitude, or from East to West, no less than 60 degrees, and in latitude, or from North to South, about 30d. And of the many vast Countries, which it comprehends, Cataya is esteem'd the most excellent, lying in a temperate Climate, in about 50d. Northern latitude, and being the prime Province of the Empire of the great Cham, who keeps his Courtin the Metropolis thereof, call'd Cambalu, famous for mighty commerce and trade driven there from all Tartary and China. 2. The East-Coast of this Country is much famed for Shipping, by reason of the great traffick said to be used from thence to all the parts and coasts thereabout. Yet because it lyes in a corner of the World that is much out of the way; neither the Europeans, nor any Oriental Nation, no not the bordering Chineses themselves, have hitherto been able to obtain any commerce with them. 3. The fame of this Cataya hath excited many brave Pilots to point out and design several ways thither, as well by the East-Indies, and the Straights of Magellan as by the Northern America, and round about Nova Zembla, and even directly through the North-Pole. Whereupon also by the three last ways divers attempts have been made (199) made both by English and Dutch, but in vain; as were also the two Voyages of 1594 and 1595, described by Linscoten. 4. Since that time,nothing hath been attempted forCataya,neither by the North,nor the East or West-Indies, 'till the year 1639, when two Dutch Ships under the Command of Captain Matthias Kwast, were set out to discover the East-Coast of the Great Tartary, especially the famous Gold and Silver-Islands; though, by reason of several unfortunate accidents, they both return'd re infectd. 5. Notwithstanding which,the Datch,being sufficiently possess'd with the perswasion of the advantages of that discovery, persisted in setting outother Vessels, namely the Ship Castricum, and a good big Yatch: in thedoingof which, after they had consulted thatexperienced Pilot, Francis JacobsonVisser, and divers others, who, for the discovery of Tartary and the Islands to the East of Japan, advised them to take their course between Japan and Corea; they, being aware of the uncertainty of a good passage that way, and of the danger of many shelves and rocks there, concluded at last to sail to the East without Japan through the main Sea, as the safest course, especially it being very probable, that by reason of the Climate of 40 deg.North wards, in the TartarianSea, they would not be hindred by any Mounsons, but find variable winds like those in Europe. 6. The said Captain Vries then was order'd to put to Sea from Ternate about the first of April or sooner, and, when he should have been come without Gilolo, to steer his course North-East-ward, with the variable winds, which at that season do commonly blow in those parts, whereby he would be carried to the 10th. or 15th degree of Northern latitude, and therestop't at about the South-East, when and where he should sail by little and little somewhat more Northerly, thro' the main Ocean, to the East-Coast of Japan, that so he might get sight of the Land at about 37 degrees; not at all minding the Isles of Ladrones, or others, which perhaps they mightapproach unto. 7. That naving thus made the Eastern-Coast of Japan about the 20th. or 25th. of May, they should from thence steer their course, in sight of Land, North and North-West, until the said Coast should fall more Westerly to them; that so, by the by, they mightlearn how far the utmost part of Japan to the North did reach,and whether in such a course they should make or get sight of, that Land which the Japoneses call Jesso; asalso, whether that very Jesso be the Land of China or Tartary, or else a Country scituate between both, oran Island: Yet that in this they should not spend too much time, but be careful (200) careful, so long to pursue their course North-West-ward, until they sheald discover the Coast of Tartary or Catay, endeavouring to do this as much Southerly, as the Wind and the said Land of ~ would ~, which was hoped by the Directors would be done between 40 and 45 deg; where-about they should sail along that Coast North-ward, or according as the same should trend, until they should discover the River Polisangi, the Catayan Sea-Towns, Jangia Brema, or some such Bay, Haven or River, wherein their Vesiels might safely lye at anchor, and where they might meet with People, to enquire into, and in a little time learn, the condition of the Country. 8. That, if they should thus far succeed well, 'twas probable, they would meet upon the Coast of Catay with Ships; considering that most Geographers esteem not only the Coast of Tartary, but also theneighbouring Ocean to abound in Shipping, and speak of great commerce and trade driven there with the circumjacent Countries and Islands: Which is they should find to be so, they should take very great care of obliging those People, to learn of them the particulars of their Sea-Voyages, and where the principal Ports and Trading Towns, but especially the River Polisongi and the Town Jangia, were scituate. And these Directors hoping, that they would discover one or other place inhabited about the 15th. or 20th. of June, they should bediligent and accurate in marking all the Coasts, Promontories, Bays, Courses of Rivers, Tides, &c. and that in as short a time as possibly they could, the saving of time being of great consequence in this matter. 9. That there they should take particular notice of the nature and condition of the people, whether barbarous or any way civilized; what Commodities the Country aforesaid and the Inhabitants wanted and desired: And in case these people did shew any Gold or Silver, they should learn, whether those Mettals were in great value amongst them, and if they were, they should not seem to care much for them, in the exchange of their Commodities for them, and that they should also shew them Copper, Tin, Lead, &c. making as if these Mettais were of a much higher value in our Country, than theirs. Next, they should endeavour to learn the Bigness of this Country; what Cities, Towns, and Neighbours it had; where the City of Cambaiu was ~, its dimensions, government, trade, religion, whether Mahumetan or Pagan; and particularly, whether the Great ~ were their Governour; what wars they were engaged in, or ~ to; what things or commodities their (201) their Prince and the People themselves did delight in; and thereupon to enter with them into a Treaty of friendship and trade. 10. That, these things being dispatch't in Tartary, they should, about the end of July or the beginning of August, take leave there with all respect and kindness, and set sail, taking their course cross the Tartarian Sea, South East-ward, to the Longitude of the East-end of Japan, or the West-coast of the America incognita, about the Cabos de Fortuna, Corrientes, or Mendosina Falsi, which Land, if the weather and wind would suffer them, they should labour to discover: And from thence they should pursue their course directly South-ward to the East-corner of Japan, making that land at about 371/2 deg; where they made account they could be about the 20th or 25th of August. And here they hoped they would discover the Island so rich in Gold and Silver, the detection of which had been endeavoured, though in vain, by Captain Kwast, A. 1639; the substance of whose Journal (which might serve them to avoid his errors) together with the writings of the Merchant that was with him, representing the condition and the discovery of the said Island, was as follows: 11. That in the South-sea, at the 371/2 deg. Northern Latitude, and about 400 Spanish, or 343 Dutch miles, that is 28 deg. Longitude East of Japan, therelay a very great and high Island, inhabited by a white, handsom, kind and civilized people, exceeding opulent in Gold and Silver, as had been experimented many years since by a Spanish Ship sailing from the Manilles to New Spaine; insomuch that the King of Spain in the Year 1610, or 1611, for further discovery, and to take possession of thesame, set out a Ship from Acapulco to Japan; which by ill conduct proved succesless: Since which time the prosecution of that discovery had been neglected. 12. And forasmuch as these Directors were from this and other Informations persuaded, that the said Island was scituate about the above-alledged distance East of Japan, they order'd, that on this occasion of the Tartary-voyage they should resume the endeavours of this discovery, steering their course from the East-corner of Japan, upon the parallel of 371/2 degrees, directly Eastward for the space of 350 miles, making what sail they could in the daytime, and lessening their sails at night, that so they might not miss of it in the dark; adding, that if they met not with the said Island in that distance, they should advance 100 miles further to the East, that, if so they met not with it, they might be assured, it was not to be found in the Latitude above-expressed, but either more South or more Northward. D d 13 Having (202) 13. Having made this point (which by estimate they thought might be done about the 20th of Septemb.) the further direction was, that, according to the condition of the season, ships, and men, they should after mature deliberation undertake one of the two following wayes, for further discovery. 14. The one, by taking their course from the point aforesaid (the season and wind permitting) back to the West-ward, cruising from the 37th to the 35th degree, to make themselves sure, whether that desired Island lay in this way, or in the way of those Islands that are said to lye between 30 and 36 degrees, some 150 or 200 miles East of Japan, where 'tis held for certain that divers Japan-vessels have been found, and thence carried Silver for Japan: But meeting neither with the one nor the other, that then they should fail more South-west-ward to Formosa. 15. The other, in case the Western wind should not permit them to return to Japan by cruising in the propos'd Latitude, that then from the aforesaid point they should steer a Northern course to the South-west coast of America, above Capo de Parselles, or Mendosina, to come in sight of Capo del Agier on the Coast Trista; and, if conveniently they could, get to an anchor in either Bay, where-about Sir Thom. Candish in the year 1587. in 38 degrees had been at anchor and named the Land Nova Albion; where he took notice, that almost no Earth there could be taken up, but there was an appearance of Silver or Gold in it: That therefore they should endeavour to make this Land by the by, to learn something of the condition thereof, and to refresh the Seamen, and to take-in necessary provision; which done, they should with a North-east-wind, which in all probability would stifly blow there in the latter part of the year, sail South-west-ward as near as they could, and so in a right course come to discover the wisht-for Gold-Island, or any of the Silver-Islands, between 30 and 36 degrees, some 100 or 120 miles East of Japan; and in case they missed, they should again, as was directed in the first way, direct their course to Formosa. 16. But, because they had great hopes they should discover the Gold-Island by an Easterly course, or at least one of the SilverIslands, by one of the two wayes described; they gave further instruction, what they should do, in case of good success, for the Service of the Company; which, for the main, should be like to what had been directed on the occasion of Cataya: but besides, that they should take notice, that these Islands, in their opinion, would be best met with on the South-east-side; where, the Gold-Island, together (203) 90 M L 85 80 75 70 65 60 55 H 50 G F B E 45 D I K A 40 35 ther with a River or Haven, is marked in the Japonian Beobis Charte; as may also be seen in the Mapp here joyned. Further, if they made this discovery, they should treat the Natives with all kindness, shew their merchandise, seem to undervalue Gold, observe how they digg it, &c. 17. These Instructions being thus deliver'd, the Author subjoyns the Event of this Voyage, as follows: That it was began the same year 1643; but the thing found far otherwise than was imagin'd; witness the Journal of a Voyage, made East off the StraightLaMaire to the Coast of Chili, under the conduct of Captain Henry Brower: Where also may be D d 2 seen (204) seen a description of the Island Eso, as it was first detected by the ship Castricom, A. 1643; when it was found that the North-eastcorner of Japan reaches to the fourth deg. NorthernLatitude: And instead of finding there a great spatious Sea, and the Land Eso yet far West or North-west-ward, it was by a Japonian Seaman shew'd them to lye no more than 30 miles off, North-ward. For that Japonese made his Voyages for trade from Japan, marked in this Mapp with A, to Mathmay, the Capital City of Eso, here noted with B: And the same related to them the condition of this Country of Eso, viz. How that it was under the dominion of theEmperor of Japan, and whatTowns and Nations were in it. Further, the same Journal notes, that this Ship Castricom sailed from the North-east-corner of Japan to the South-corner of Eso, at D; whence the Land reachesNorth-east and by East to E, where they found a Straight, which they called the Straight de Vries, which, in the Author's judgment, they should rather have called the Straight Anian; as they also met with the Land scituate East off this Straight, mark'd F, to which they gave the name of the Companies Land, whereas it should have been call'd the West-corner of America, it having hitherto been alwayes so placed and named, except that the Straight Anian hath been represented somewhat more Northerly. They sailed through this Straight as far as the Sinus or Bay G, and viewed all the Sea-Coasts as far as H, being theLatit. of 49 degrees, where they saw a very high Mountain lying at about 50 degrees, from whence they failed back, without doing any more that's known. He that is desirous to see theDelineation of this Land Eso, Japan, and Corea, may find it on the little Mapp here inserted. 18. As for a more particular description of this Land and Coast, they metgenerally every where with good Anchoring ground, 20 or more fathoms deep; the Coast very plentiful ofFish, among which there were Whales and Salmons; the shore high and mountainous, especially remarkable for one exceeding high Hill, which the Natives signified to be very rich in silver. In the same place there grow very tall, streight and thick Firr-trees, fit for Masts. The Soile clayie and fat. Coming into the Straight de Vries or Anian, which is 10 miles broad, and on the East-side thereof, the Companies Land in America, marked (as was said above) with F, they lighted on one of those Mountains, where they found very glittering Earth, as if it were abounding with Silver. Along that shore there runs a violent stream about the North-east, and close to the shore are Rocks, which make it very unsafe to lye there. The States Island, lying over against (205) gainst it, hath also highMountains, and seems to be destitute of Trees and very steep and rocky. The shore of the Bay G seem'd to be as pleasant as that of the English Coast, but untill'd; yet naturally stored with Mulberies, Grapes, Juniper-berries, Ras-berries; as also with Oak, Firr and Birch; the shore all along beautified with Rose-trees. They found also abundance of Oisters on that Coast; but met with no wild Dear, nor Mutton, Cows, Geese or Hens, though they saw many Falcons and Eagles. The Natives are generally all short and thick, very hairy, their brows and lipps painted black or blew, their ears bored thorow, and with filver Ear-rings hanging in them. As for their Religion, they gave no other token of any, but that fitting by the Fire, and drinking, they spill thereabout some drops on several places, as if they offer'd to that Element before they would drink. They seem'd to be a kind of Banditi, masters all alike. The men have each two wives, of which they are very jealous. Both men and women love strong drink. Their houses are of wood, and cover'd with Bark. They have very little Housholdstuff; Japan-gowns are their best ornament, and they have only a few teguments to cover themselves with in the night. On the shore of the Bay G there were starved that winter many people of hunger and cold. Their victuals are, Fish, Whale-fat, red Rose-buds dryed by them for winter-provision. They are lazy, not tilling the ground; sustaining themselves by hunting, shooting, and fishing. Thay trade with Japan, and their language is mixed with the Japonian. They are very subtle in trading, but not thievish, &c. 19. The Event of this Voyage being thus related, the Author proceeds to make some Reflections thereon, viz. 1. That the Description given may be of use to the North-East Passage. 2. That these Lands of Eso are very near our Periaeci, being in the same latitude with us, but differing in longitude 180 degrees, having Summer and Winter common with us, but midnight when 'tis noon with us, and viceversa. 3. That as for failing, sutably to Joris van Spilbergen, out of the East-Indies about the North into these parts, the discovery of this LandEso, which was held to lye North-West of Japan, whereas it really lyes North and North-East of it, will contribute not a little. For, 'tmay thence be collected, saith this Author, that these East-Coasts of Eso may very well be the East-Coast of Tartary; which opinion is much confirm'd by the Description of Japan, made by Caron, who, upon frequent enquiries made among the Japoneses, was by them inform'd, that the water on the North-East corner of Japan, being 11 miles broad, did reach inwards to the Land Eso, running (206) running against mighty mountains about the ProvinceOghio; whereby Japan appears to be a firm Land to that of Eso. To which is to be added, what others assert, viz. That a certain Person hath travelled 200 miles North-ward, thatis, to about 50 deg. Northern latitude, and found nothing but firmLand. So that, whereas heretofore Geographers were wont to make a large Sea to the North of Japan, it has been found by this Voyage of 1643, that the great Land of Eso is scituate there; the Coasts whereof are now made known from 42 to about 49 degrees. But this is not all; for a further Discovery came to hand, A. 1668, which was made with a Yacht call'd the Sparwer, which the Dutch lost upon a small isle, 12 or 13 miles off of the South-corner of Corea, being 14 or 15 miles in compass, in 33 deg. 32 min. North-latitude; which Shipwrack hapned Aug. 13. 1653, where the Seamen being taken prisoners by those Inhabitants, there was brought to them one John Jansen well de Vree, who A. 1627, had fallen upon the Coast of Corea, and into the hands of that People, with two more of his Camerades, sent ashore to fetch water. This man being then about 58 years of age, had almost lost his Mothers Tongue, so that he could hardly be understood by his Countrymen; who were in May 1654, transported from the said Isle to the Firm Land of Corea, and passed through divers Towns, most North and by West, to the Court of that King, for the space of 70 or 75 miles, coming to about the 39th. deg. of the Poles Elevation. They testifi'd, that Corea is scituate between 341/2 and 44 deg. that is, from South to North about 140 or 150 miles (reckoning 15 of these miles to a degree:) The breadth of this Land from East to West about 70 or 75 miles. On the South-corner 'tis very near to Japan, viz. within 25 or 26 miles. On the West-side it hath the Coast of China or the Bay of Nanquin, and on the North 'tis by a great Mountain fasten'd to one of the most Northerly Provinces of the said China; without which it would be an Island, there being on the North-East-side an open Sea, where every year divers Whales with Harping Irons in their bellies are affirmed to be found by the Dutch, and other Nations; where likewise in the Spring is caught great plenty of Herrings: So that there must needs be a thorow-fare between Corea and Japan to Nova Zemblaand Waygatz. These Dutch men having also often enquied of the Corean Pilots that sail to the North East quarters, whether there was any Land about the North-East; they had for answer, there was nothing but a clear Sea. These same men, that were thus cast away upon the above said Isle, were 36 in number, of which there escaped 8, A. 1666. in September, and in a small Vessel came to Firando in Japan (207) pan, where, soon after, they met with their Countrymen at Nangasaek. 4. That from these Discoveries it may well be concluded to be true, that Eso is joyn'd to Japan, as is represented in this Map by the pricked lines, but not that 'tis fast to Asia or Tartary. 5. That concerning the particular of having there found Dutch Harping-Irons in the bodies of Whales (which seems incredible) 'tis to be consider'd, that a Whale will swim incredibly fast; and the distance from Spitsberg to the North-end of Corea, being, by the Maps, about 700 miles, a Whale might dispatch that way in 10 or 12 days, swimming in 24 hours about 60 or 70 miles. 6. That this Discovery indicates the nearest way to sail out of the East-Indies into these parts by the North, viz. betwixt Corea and Japan, here mark't with I and K, which space is at least 25 or 26 miles broad, having a strong current, and entring into a large Sea; the which is much more expeditious, than to pass on the East of Japan thorow the Straight de Vries or Anian; and that the rather, because 'tis not yet known, how far that Eso reaches North-ward. 20. This small Map, in which is also delineated the NorthCoast of Tartary between Corea and Nova Zembla, suteth with the Globe and Maps of Petrus Kaerius, I. A. Kolom, K. J. Visser, Fr. de Wit, and some others, although the two last have now alter'd them; for which our Author faith he sees no reason. 21. To promote this Passage out of the East-Indies by the North into Europe, it were very necessary to sail from East-India to the West-ward of Japan, all along Corea, to see how the Sea-Coasts trend to the North of the said Corea, and with what conveniency Ships might sail as far as to Nova Zembla, and to the North of the same: where our Author saith that undoubtedly it would be found, that having passed the North corner of N. Zembla, or, thorow Weigatz, * the North-end of Jelmer-Land, (marked with L and M, in this Map) one might go on SouthEast-ward, and make a successful Voyage. Some Observations concerning a possible Passage to the East-Indies by the Northern America West-ward. OF this Passage much was at first discoursed meerly by hearsay, as may be seen in the Hydrographical Discourse of W. Bourne, printed An. 1594. Next, one Hessel Gerritse, A. 1612. wrote of this Passage thus; Since the English upon the several Voyages of W. Barentz made some attempts for the North-East; the Directors of the Dutch East-India Company for some years last past sent ~ one * Compare Numb. 101. of these Tracts, p 3. concerning the true scituation of N. Zembla. (208) one Hudson, who not being able to find a Passage to the East, sailed to the West, whence without effecting any thing he came into England. Afterwards, being sent out again by the English, A. 1610, and having sailed 300 Dutch miles and come to the West of Bakalaos, and winter'd there at about 52 deg. North-latitude, and desirous to search further, he was, together with the rest of the Governors of the Ship, set on shore by the Seaman, who refused to go further, but came home, having been at Sea 10 moneths, whereas they had been victualled but for 8. The hope of this new Passage above Terra nova, attempted by this Hudson, is strengthen'd by the testimony of the Virginians and those of Florida, who solemnly affirm, that to the North-West of their Country there is a great Sea, where they say to have seen Ships like those of the English. We read also in Jos. Acosta, Ch. 12. of the third Book of the Natural Hist. of the West-Indies, that the Spaniards are of opinion, the English Captains, Drake and Candish, had good knowledg of this Passage. 'Tis said also, that the Spaniards seek to keep this way undiscover'd, and that some of that Nation, returning from the Conquest of the Phillippines, came home by this very way. King Philip the Second therefore caused a strong Fort to be built on the upper end of Mar Vermeio to the West of Nova Granada, to hinder the Dutch and others from invading the riches he possesseth upon the South-Sea; as we are told for a certain ttuth. This way therefore if pursued, may direct our People not only to sail to China, the Moluccas, and Peru; but also to go and see what People there are on the Southside of the South-Sea, &c. Thus far this Hessel Gerritsen: And the same year, 1612, some attempt was made in prosecution of that design, but it proved successless, because that some Land came in the way of the Navigators, which obstructed their progress; as is shew'd in the Maps, that were since made, were through Hudsons Straight you come indeed into a spacious Sea, called Buttons Bay, but on the West-side this is beset with Land. It seems, that Mr. Hudson thought, that he was got thorow it, because he so much endeavour'd to get Southward, where at length he was constrain'd to winter at the latit. of 52 deg. without effecting anything. But if he had directed his course somewhat more Westward, he might have better got thorow. An 