30 S T A T U T E S O F C H A P T E R X. Of the Clerk, Librarian, Keeper of the Repository, and House-keeper. I. T H E person who shall be chosen to any, or to all of these Offices, shall either not be a Fellow of the Society; or, if a Fellow, shall cease to be so, upon his Election to and acceptance of any or all of the said Offices. II. He shall be competently skilled in languages, natural knowledge, and able to write a fair and legible hand. III. The Election of the Clerk by the Society, shall be in the following manner. The names of the several Candidates shall be printed and delivered to every Member; each of whom shall take off the name of such Candidate as he means to vote for; and (after having had his own name marked in a list of the Members of the Society by the Secretary, assisted by two Scrutators to be appointed in the same manner as at the anniversary Elections) deliver the name of the Candidate so taken off, and folded up, into the hands of the President, who, in the presence of the Society, shall put the several names into a vessel appropriated for that purpose; and the Candidate who shall be found to have the majority of votes, shall be deemed duly elected. IV. The T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 31 IV. The appointment of a person to the other offices of Librarian, Keeper of the Repository, and House-keeper, is to be by the Council; to whom the Officer so appointed shall give security, at their discretion: he shall reside in the Society's House, and provide a Porter, who shall be furnished with a Gown and Staff at the expence of the Society. V. The person or persons chosen to officiate in the said respective departments shall be paid for attendance, writing, and other business, according to the determinations already made by the Council, and as hath been the practice of late years; and shall not, besides such payments, receive any perquisite or profit whatsoever, but what is, or shall be, expressly allowed by the Council: such person or persons shall be further subject to such Rules and Orders as shall from time to time be given him or them by the President and Council, besides those annexed to the duty of the several Offices; and shall constantly be in attendance, during all meetings of the Society, Council, and Committee. Of the Duty of the Clerk. I. H E shall enter all the minutes in the several Journalbooks, and make an Index to every such book: he shall lay before every Council their fair current minute-book; and before every Committee of papers, the Society's Journal-book, to shew that the several entries are fairly made: and he shall have the care of the writing of all summonses of the Society, Council, and Commitees. II. The 32 S T A T U T E S O F II. The Clerk under the direction of the Secretaries, shall have the charge and custody of the Charter-book, Statutebook, Journal-books of the Society and Council, Registerbooks and Letter-books, as also of all papers and writings belonging to the Society; all which shall be kept in the house of the Society, that they may be in readiness to be produced at any meetings of the Society or Council, as the case shall require, or as shall be ordered by the Society, Council, or President. III. The Clerk shall not suffer any person, not being a Fellow of the Society, to read any Journal-book, Record, or Writing, or any part thereof, belonging to the Society; nor give any copy thereof, nor any way communicate any thing contained therein, to any such person. IV. Each page of copying, for which the Clerk is to be paid, shall be estimated by the size of the Fools-cap paper; the folio page containing thirty lines fairly and closely written, with a margin not exceeding one fourth part of the page in breadth; and according to the same rate for any larger or smaller page. Of the Duty of the Librarian. I. T H E Librarian shall attend the Libraries two days in the week during the meetings of the Society, viz. Tuesday and Thursday in the morning from eleven to two of the clock; and during the recesses of the Society only one day in the week, namely Thursday from eleven to two. During these 4 times T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 33 times he shall attend for the accommodation of such Fellows of the Society as shall come to read the printed books, or manuscripts, and of any other persons who shall bring a written permission from the President or any other Member of the Council, or who shall be introduced by a Fellow in Person. II. The Librarian shall enter into the Catalogue all books presented to, or bought by, the Society, immediately after their coming into the possession of the Society, and so place them as to be readily found. III. The Librarian shall receive from the Printer all the copies of the Philosophical Transactions; deliver out one copy to each Member who shall ask, or send for it at the House of the Society; furnish the Booksellers with the copies ordered to be sold; and keep a regular account of the Transactions so received and delivered. The Duty of the Keeper of the Repository. I. HE shall attend the Repository two days in the week, during the meetings of the Society, viz. on Mondays and Fridays, on each day from eleven of the clock in the forenoon to two in the afternoon; for the admission of the Fellows of the Society and such other persons as they shall introduce. II. He shall not, without leave of the Council, permit any thing to be taken out of the Repository: and he shall enter into the Catalogue all particulars which are presented to, or bought by, the Society. F III. He 34 S T A T U T E S O F III. He shall cause the Animals, which from time to time are appropriated to the Repository, to be neatly set up for preservation, and then placed in the proper cases; agreeable to the order he shall receive from the Inspectors of the Museum. IV. He shall remark what is necessary for the preservation, augmentation, and arrangement, of the several natural and artificial Productions; what particulars have not yet been described, and report the same to the Council. Of the Duty of the House-keeper. I. HE shall always be ready to receive Messages, Parcels, Letters, &c. directed to the Society, Council, and Officers; and to cause all Orders, Summonses and Letters of the President, Council, and Committees to be sent, or delivered, as directed, in proper time. II. He shall take care that the Society's House, and particularly the Meeting-room, and other public apartments, are kept clean; and that all conveniencies, with fires and candles in the proper rooms, be prepared and lighted at the times necessary; and that paper, pens, and ink, are in constant readiness for use in every department: and shall inform the Council, from time to time, of whatsoever repairs he conceives to be wanting. III. He T H E R O Y A L S O C I E T Y. 35 III. He shall have the care of the Keys of all the Rooms, Closets, Libraries, and Repositories, as well for their cleaning and repairing, as for securing their contents, as much as possible, in case of fire, or other accident: and he shall officiate as Macebearer, and carry about the balloting-box. IV. He shall, as Deputy to the Treasurer, receive the payments of the Fellows; pay such bills as he is directed to discharge; pay to the Treasurer the balance in hand whenever called upon; keep a fair account of the Society's income and expence; and be allowed one shilling in the pound on the sums which he receives, for his assistance to the Treasurer. F 2 C H A P