A Description of Several Kinds of Granaries, as those of London, of Dantzick, and in Muscovy. Concerning the Granaries of London, the Inquisitive Dr. Merret, (who indeed occasion'd the Inquiry into the rest, as a thing, which many were desirous to be informed about, for the better Preservation of Grain, in times of its Plenty) gives this Account of them. ALl the Twelve Companies of London, and some other Companies and Private Persons, have their Granaries at the Bridge-House in Southwark (where are a Justice of the Peace, a Steward, and two Masters.) These Granaries are built on two sides of an Oblong; one whereof stands North and South, and is near 100 yards long, whose Lettice-windows respect North-East, the other side may be about 50 yards long; the Windows look to the North, (465) North, and the opposite sides. have no Apertures. Allthe Windows are about a yard high, without any shutters, and run on in a continued Series, with very small partitions, sufficient onely to nail the Lettices to. Each of them is three or four Stories high. The Garret-windows are Jetty-wife, with a yards distance one from another, glazed out of the Tiles. The Ground or lowermost Story, 12 foot from the ground, is used onely for a Warehouse, &c. To settle the first Story upon strong Pillars, fortified with Spikes of Iron, that no Vermin might get up, would make that Story fitter for drying of Corn, and more perflatile; especially where there is no use of the lower Rooms. The other Stories, made for Granaries, are in breadth some 6 yards, and in height 6 foot or somewhat more. The uppermost or GarretGranary to the Top or Angle, made by the raising pieces, much more. They have each in the midst from the sides at 8 or 9 foot distance, a strong Post; and all the Timbers made very strong, to support and bear the great weight of the Grain. The Boards best made of sound Oak, two inches thick, and close joynted. In some places they put, in all the inside of their Rooms, Ironwire, of so narrow Mesches, that neither Rats nor Mice can get thorow them, two or three foot deep. Others erect, on all the sides, Boards of Timber, and fasten others to the top of the Perpendicular, one lying either parallel to the Horizon, or so that they make an acute Angle with the former, to the same purpose. For, besides the devouring of the Grain, the Excrements and Urin of that Vermine, moistning the Wheat or Rye, make them apt to corrupt and breed Weivels. The two main Considerables in building these Granaries, are, To make them strong, and, To expose them to the most drying Winds. The Ordering of their Corn is this, In Kent, to separate the dust and other impurities in it, when'tis thrash'd, they throw it in Shovels from one side to the other, which the longer it is, the better: by which means all such impurities remain in the middle betwixt the two heaps of Corn; which they skreen, to part the Corn, that is good, from the said impurities; then, when they first bring the Grain into the Granaries, they lay it about half a foot thick, and turn it twice a week, and once in that time skreen P p p it; (466) it; and this for two Moneths space. After that, they lay it a foot thick for two Months more, turning it once or twice a Week, and skreen it proportionably, according as the drying season is, seldomer or oftner. After 5 or 6 Moneths, they raise it to two foot in height, and turn it once a Fortnight, and skreen it once a Moneth, as occasion is. After a Year, they lay it two and a half or three foot deep, and turn it once in three Weeks or a Moneth, and skreen it proportionably. When it hath lain two Years or more, they turn it once in two Moneths, and skreen it once a Quarter, and so on, as they find it in brightness, hardness and driness. The oftner these two things are done, the better the Grain proves. They leave an empty space about a yard wide on all sides of the Room, and at six foot distance, thorow the whole Area, empty of Corn; into which empty spaces they turn the Corn as often as 'tis needful. In Kent they make two square holes in both the ends of the Floor, and one round in the middle; by which they throw the Corn from the upper into the lower Rooms, & contra, to air and dry it the better. The Skreens are made with two partitions, to separate the dust from the Corn; which falls into a Bag, and when sufficiently full, is cast away, the good Corn remaining behind. Corn has been kept in London-Granaries, 32 Years; and the longer 'tis kept, the more flower it yields, in proportion to the quantity of the Corn; and makes the purer and whiter Bread, the superfluous humidity onely evaporating. Dr. Pell mention'd at a Meeting of the R. Society, that they keep Corn at Zurich in Helvetia, 80 Years. So far the Doctor. As for the Granaries of Dantzick and Moscovia, some observing Merchants and Travellers give this short Account of them. First, That those of Dantzick are generally Seven Stories high, some, Nine Stories; having each of them a Funnel, to let the Corn run down from one Floor to another; thereby chiefly saving the labour and charges of carrying it down. And then, that they in (467) in that Town, are built altogether surrounded with water, whereby the Ships have the conveniency of lying close to them, to take in their Lading. No Houses suffered to be built near them, to be thereby secured from the casualties of Fire. Secondly, That those of Muscovy are made under Ground, by digging a deep Pit, of almost the Figure of a Sugar-loaf, broad below, and narrow at the top; the sides well-plaister'd round about, and the top very close cover'd with Stone. The people of that Countrey are so very careful, to have the Corn well dried. before they put it into those Subterraneous Granaries, that, when the weather of that Northern Climat serves not to dry it sufficiently, they heat their Barns, by the means of great Ovens, and thereby very well drying their Corn, supply the deficiency of their short Summer. 