(1565) II. C A R I G U E Y A, Seu Marsupiale Americanum Masculum. Or, The Anatomy of a Male Opossum: In a Letter to Dr Edward Tyson, from Mr William Cowper, Chirurgeon, and Fellow of the Royal Society, London. To which are premised some further Observations on the Opossum; and a New Division of Terrestrial Brute Animals, particularly of those that have their Feet formed like Hands. Where an account is given of some Animals not yet described. By Edward Tyson, M. D. Fellow of the College of Physicians and of the Royal Society. HAving formerly given the Anatomy of a Female Opossum; for compleating the History of this Animal, I intended likewise to add that of the Male. And tho indeed I had an opportunity of doing it much sooner, by the favour of Arthur Bayly, Esq; a Merchant here in London, who presented me with two: Yet I am well pleased to find my self prevented herein by a Friend, whose great Skill in Dissecting, as well as Designing the Parts to be represented, renders him altogether fit for such an Undertaking, I shall refer the Reader therefore to the Account Mr Cowper has drawn up and sent me, of the inward parts of the Male Opossum: And shall only beg leave to observe some few things, that may tend to G g g g g g g g g the (1566) the illustrating the History of this Animal, omitted in the Anatomy of the Female Opossum, printed in the Philosophical Transactions No 239. for the Month of April 1698. And in the first place, whereas pag. 107. I queried to what Species in the Praedicament of Animals this Creature might properly be reduced? Now having upon dissection observed the Penis to be fleshy, and to have no Bone in it; I find it cannot be referred to the Dog or Weasel kind, as some have thought; and what Piso means by his Glires majores montani, to which he refers it, I shall not here enquire. I must confess we cannot be at a certainty in this matter, unless we had a more perfect Enumeration and Description of the several sorts of Animals that are in the World; and by a strict Enquiry into their inward as well as outward Parts, observed, how gradually they differ from one another; by easie and gentle steps, the intermediate Species linking the whole together. However till this can be attained, every little help will contribute somewhat. To give therefore my Thoughts on this subject, I shall here propose a Division of such Terrestrial Animals, as have many divided Claws and Nails at the end of them into Animalia ~ seu Manu digitata, i. e. whose Feet resemble Hands, and have Fingers rather than Toes. ~ seu Pede digitata, i. e. whose digiti, from the order of their Position and Shortness, as also Uses, more resemble Toes than Fingers. For tho our Language makes a sufficient distinction between them, by calling one Fingres, the other Toes; yet the Greek and Latin do not; for ~ and Digiti signifie (1567) fie those on the Hand, and Feet likewise. To discriminate them therefore they are obliged to add another word, as Digitus Manus, or Digitus Pedis; which sufficiently justifie our Distinction of X~, and ~ ~. Now we may observe these Differences between the Fingers and Toes,viz. that the Fingers are much longer,having usually a Thumb set at a distance from the Range of the other Fingers; and are so contrived, for the better holding what they have a mind to, and especially in these Animals, to assist them in climbing Trees, &c. for catching their Prey. Whereas the Toes are shorter, and are set in a more even range together, and better contrived for swift running, by which way this other sort of Animals take their Prey. This latter sort we shall not insist on here, but rather give a Subdivision of the former, viz. those Animals which have their Feet formed like Hands. Now where there is a Thumb, tho we may esteem the Hand there more perfect, yet I find 'tis not always necessary; for in several Animals 'tis wanting, as will appear by the following Scheme; which I propose here only as an Essay or Hint, by farther Observations to be inlarged and amended, rather than as one justly adapted and compleat; for I doubt not but there are several Animals not here mentioned, that may be reduced under some of these Heads; and it may be some here specified, upon second Thoughts may be more fitly ranged otherwise. However at present let this serve. G g g g g g g g g 2 Animalia (1568) Animalia X~, Quorum omnessunt Manu-formes, seu Animalia Quadru-mana. cum Pollice in Omni Pede sc. Caudata. Simia Non Caudata. Romack. Coati Brasil. &c. Sine Pollice in Pedibus. Pedes Anterioribus Vantrevan. Sciurus. Mus, &c. Posterioribus. Genus Felinum. Duo tantum sunt Manu-formes. sc. vel Anteriores Cum Pollice Mantegar, &c. Sine Pollice. Cuandu Brasil.Margravii. Tlaquatzin Spinosum Hernandez. Hystrix. Tamandua Brasil. &c. Posteriores. Cum Pollice Carigueya. S. Opossum, &c. Sine Pollice. Under (1569) Under the first Member of this Division I include the Ape and Monkey kind, which as I have shown in my Discourse of the Ourang Outang, ought rather to be reckoned a four handed than a four footed Animal. And considering how large a Specie of Animals may be reduced under this Quadrumanous kind, agreeing in this particular, tho in others different, I think it but just to assign them a General Classis, afterwards to be subdivided according to the gradual differences they have form one another. The Romack therefore, tho in the Head and Face much different from the Monkey kind, yet being Quadrumanous, and on each Hand having a Thumb, I reduce under this Head. This Animal was brought alive from Fort St George. Whether it is described by any, or what other Names 'tis call'd by, I do not know. Hereafter it may be I may give a description of this and some others of the Ape and Monkey kind, in an Appendix to my discourse of the Ourang Outang. And because in its face and head it so much resembles a Fox, and in the rest of its Body a Monkey, for the present shall call it ' ~, Vulpi-Simia, or the Fox Monkey. But the next I have mentioned in this Class, the Coati of Brasil and Virginia, or the Rackoon or Rattoon, tho in its Body it does not resemble the Monkey kind, yet because it has hands like a Monkey, as Margrave tells us, I place likewise here; as may be all others, whose Feet are all formed like Hands, and have a Thumb in each. For there are some that have not a Thumb on their fore feet, and others that want one on the hinder. In the number of the former may be reckoned the Vantrevan, the Squirrel kind and Mouse kind, or any others that may be observed to have all their ~ formed like Hands, only on their fore Feet do want a Thumb. The Vantrevan (as 'twas called by the Person that shewed it here in London)altogether resembles a Monkey which on the fore Feet had only 4 long Fingers and no Thumb. 'Tis (1570) Tis a beautiful Creature, very brisk and nimble in motion and loving; has a very long Tail, by which it suspends its Body, as does the Opossum. The Squirrel kind on the fore Feet have 4 long Fingers, on the hinder sive, and one like a Thumb. It makes use of its fore Feet like Hands, in holding up its Food to its Mouth, and lives on Trees, as do the Monkeys. But the affinity between the Monkey and Squirrel kind does better appear by some Monkeys I have seen, which on the Belly have a large thick Furr, and a thick brushy Tail like the Squirrel, whereas usually on the Belly the Ape and Monkey are thinner of Hair, and that on their Tail is shorter. This sort of Monkey I call therefore the Squirrel Monkey or Sciuro Pithecus, and have made a figure of one of them. But its Face more resembled a Man's or an Ape's, as likewise its Teeth, and in these respects is much different from the Squirrel kind. Nearer to the Squirrel comes the Mouse kind, which in the shape of its Head, the long Teeth before, and the large and prominent Eyes,more resembles the Squirrel kind, and makes use of its fore Feet,as Hands, in feeding its self, where it has only 4 Fingers without a Thumb, but on its hinder has 5, of which the inward most and outward most are places at a distance from the Range of the 3 middle Fingers, like 2 Thumbs, as may be observed in some of the Lizzard kind. Why we should include the Cat kind in the number of the Animalia ~ some may question, since their Feet seem rounder, and to have rather Toes, than Fingers. But we may observe that it uses its fore Feet like Hands in climbing and catching its Prey; and when it does so, it exerts its Claws and lengthens them; but when it uses its Feet in going and running, it shortens them, that being most convenient for that purpose, so that 'tis well provided for both, and its Digiti are of a middle nature between Fingers and Toes, as they are lengthened or shortned. (1571) shortned. And we may observe on each fore Foot there is a Pollux or ~Thumb set at a distance from the range of the other Claws, whereby they more resemble Hands, and on the hinder Feet there are only 4 Digiti without a Thumb. We come next to those Animals that have only two Feet formed like Hands, and those are either the Forefeet, or the Hinder. Those whose Fore-feet only are formed like Hands, have either a Thumb there, as the Mantegar, &c. or have only four Fingers, without a Thumb, as the Cuandu, &c. The Mantegar is an Animal not described as I know of by any Author, and the strangest that I have seen. It is about the bigness of a Mastiff Dog; it measured from the end of its Nose to the Anus 3 foot 2 inches; the Girth of the Body 2 foot 2 inches; the Head 14 inches long; the Forehead 5 Inches broad; the Head somewhat resembling an Horse's; the Nostrils large; the Nose of a deep Cinnabar Colour, and the Bones of the Nose depressed lower than those of the Upper Jaw, where the Skin was of an Azure blew Colour; a large Tuft of Hair on the Forehead and likewise under the Chin; the forepart of the Body and inside of the Arms and Legs almost bare of hair, the Hair on the outside of them, of a mottle brown and Olive colour; on the Back blackish: There were Mammae on the Breast; an Umbilicus; and the Praeputium without a Fraenum, as in the Ape kind; the Praeputium of a Vermillion Colour; the Scrotum of an Azure; it had no Tail; 'tis very fierce, having 2 long Tusks in the Upper Jaw, and very lascivious; the Fore-feet perfectly resemble Hands, having long and thick Fingers, and a Thumb, and all the Nails of those Fingers flat; the Nails on the hinder Toes and Fingers imbricated, not flat; and tho the Claws were pretty long, and somewhat imitating Fingers, yet the Thumb not so perfect, and the whole different from the Fore feet. When fitting and supporting its self by a Stick (1572) Stick in one hand, being thus erect, and holding a Cup in the other, it would drink out of it, and not lap; its Food was chiefly Fruits. But of this more it may be another time. Amongst those Animals whose Fore-feet are like Hands and have no Thumb, I reckon the Porcupine kind, as the Cuandu of Brasil, a sort of Porcupine described by Margrave and Jo. Nieuhoss (Voyages pag. 18.) which on the Fore-feet hath but 4 Fingers on the hinder 5. Therefore, as Margrave observes,for want of a Thumb,it is slow in climbing Trees; but the better to help himself, it twists its Tail about a Bough, to save its self from falling. And much alike, if not the same, is the Tlaquatzin Spinosum of Hernandez. So the Common Porcupine, before has 4 Fingers, behind 5. So the Tamandua of Brasil, or AntBear, before has but 4 Fingers, where the want of length in the Fingers, is supplyed by that of the Nails, and behind has 5 Toes. But I must confess there must be some Allowance made, for ranging this Anomalous Animal (as Mr Ray calls it) here. But because he climbs Trees, and in doing this makes use of his Tail, as some others here mentioned do, I was willing to put him into the Croud. And, unless it can be otherwise better ranged, we may likewise shuffle in here the Ai, Ignavus, or Sloth, because it climbs, and lives on Trees, and has a Head not unlike an Ape's; and, as Margrave assures us, two Teats on the Breast, but on each Foot had but three Claws, with very long Nails, like the Tamandua, and its Feet being very narrow and thus defective in Toes, 'tis very slow in Motion. Now to conclude -this Scheme, Amongst the Animals whose hinder Feet only are like Hands, is to be reckon'd the Carigueya or Opossum; which having described at large in the Anatomy of the Female Opossum, I shall not insist farther on it here: and if there be any other Animals that have their hinder Feet formed like Hands, either with or (1573) or without a Thumb; they may be reduced hither, my chief Design in this Scheme being (as near as I could) to include all those Animals that are observed to climb or live on Trees, into a Class together; and they being observed to have their Claws, either all or many of them, formed like Finger's, I place them therefore under this general Title of Animalia ~ ~. Now, begging pardon for this Digression, we shall proceed in our Observations on the Male Opossum, omitted in the account given of the Female, and here we shall be brief. Therefore pag. 112. in describing the Ears, I had not an opportunity of observing that white Rimm that Incircles them, which is very beautiful: for when in Health, for the breadth of two lines or more, there runs an Edging round the Verge of the Ear of a perfect Milk white Colour. But the Ear here being so very thin and tender, 'tis easily affected by cold or illness, and then this white part becomes jagged and crimpled, as if burnt up, and the whiteness disappears; as it happened in this last subject before its death, as well as the first, which occasioned my not observing it then. Tis on this account that Margrave in his Description of the Tai-ibi of Brasile, which now I take to be the Male Opossum, saith, it has Aures subrotandas, molles, graciles albas,teneras ut Charta molles, not that the whole Ear was White, but only the Edges. But what I was most desirous to know, was whether the Male had that Marsupium or Pouch for receiving the Young, as is affirmed by some I have named pag. 124. Mr Cowper in the Subject he dissected, neither observed the Pouch nor the Muscles belonging to it, as has been described in the Female: Nor indeed did I in that I dissected. Only this I took notice of when first I had it; that the Skin here seemed to be looser; so that with my finger I could easily thrust it in, and by turning it round, could form for the present a Pouch; but this would easily H h h h h h h h h turn (1574) turn out again, upon withdrawing my fingers. Whether therefore 'tis capable of being formed into a Pouch or Marsupium upon occasion, I shall leave as a Quaery to be resolved by those that live where they breed, Whether they ever observe the Male to receive the Young ones as do the Females? However, in the Male there were those Bones I call Marsupialia, and I observed Muscles running from them to the hinder Legs, which, no doubt, are very serviceable to them in drawing up their Bodies, as I find Mr Cowper has likewise remarked. I shall further add, to confirm what Oppian and others I have named (pag. 126.) write concerning Fishes receiving their Young ones into their Bellies; that Mr Herbert in his Travels (Lib. 1. Pag. 23.) saith, that in their Voyage, they took a Shark, 9 foot and a half long; and found in her Paunch 55 young ones, each a Geometrical foot in length; all which, he adds, go out and in at pleasure. I shall conclude this Paper with some few remarks I made upon the Brain, since in the Female I had not an opportunity of doing it, and I find Mr Cowper has omitted it in the Male; but for all the rest, shall refer to his account. Wherein the Reader will find that the Organs of Generation in the Male are no less surprizing and remarkable than in the Female; and in both they are different from any other Animal that I have met with. Now as to the Brain, I observed that being taken out of the Cranium it weighed two drams two scruples. I did not find either in the Cerebrum, those Anfractus; or in the Cerebellum those Circilli which we usually meet with in other Brains. The whole was of an Oblong figure, and seemed to be divided into three Parts, i. e. The Cerebellum, the Cerebrum, and that part of the Cerebrum which was projected into the Rostrum. For by the Pinching in of the Cranium here, the fore part of the Cerebrum, from whence issued the Processus Mamillores and Olfactory Nerves (1575) Nerves, was by this Constriction, remarkably distinguished from the Cerebrum; like an Anterior Brain. In the Vermin kind, and those that have a long Rostrum, I have observed the like. For Nature here seems to give them more particularly the advantage of the Sense of Smelling, for finding out their Prey, or avoiding the Danger they would shun. So likewise I observed the Optick Nerve, as likewise the Eye to be large; the better to look out for the one, or the other. And when I have mentioned the Auditory Nerves to be large likewise for the same reason, to give them a quick sense of hearing any sudden Noise, and so to avoid the Danger, these were the greatest Remarks I made upon the Nerves. It was observed that it saw best in the twilight, and not so well in the bright Sun; which I was easily brought to believe, because it was then to seek out for its Prey. In the Eye I observed the Membrana Nictitans; The Glandula Lachrymalis was large and oblong; there was the Musculus septimus suspensorius; and the Crystalline Humour was large, very transparent, and almost of a globular figure; the Eye or Iris black. H h h h h h h h h 2 II. A 