Answers To some of the Iuquires formerly publish'd concerning Mines. THat the Queries, scattered up and down in these Tracts, may not seem lost, or left un-regarded, the Publisher intends to impart at convenient times such of the Answers shall be sent in by observing men, as may be thought acceptable to the Reader. He begins now with an Account, communicated to him by the Learned and Inquisitive Mr. Joseph Glanvil, who premises in a Letter, that he procured the following Answers from a person living near the Mendip-Mines, and upon whose relations we may securely depend: Adding, that he does not by these few suggestions think himself absolved of his Taske, but shall pursue the matter farther, as soon as he has an opportunity of going into these Parts, whence he expects to be farther inform'd. The Reader will be pleased to look back to the said several Queries, as they are extant in the Number 19; the following Answers respecting thither, and being accommodated to the Mines of Mendip in Somerset-shire, where the following Observations were made; viz. To the 1, 2, 3 Queries. That all Mendip is Mountainous, yet the Hills not equal in height. That it is barren and cold, and rocky in some places. That the Ridges thereof run confusedly, but most East and West, and not in any Parallel one with another. That upon the Surface thereof it is Heathy, Ferny and Furzy; and the Cattel, it feeds, for the most part are Sheep, which go there all the year; and young Beasts, Horses and Colts at Spring and Fall. That the Sheep are not fair, but big-bellyed, and will grow to no bigness, after they have been there fed; but will grow fat, if they are removed into better soyle, and so their Beasts and Horses. To the 4, 5, 6, 7 Queries. That the Natives and Inhabitants H h h live (526) live neither longer nor shorter, than ordinary, but live healthy,saving such, as are employed about melting of the Lead at the Mines; who, if they work in the smoak, are subject to a Disease, that will kill them, and the Cattel likewise that feed thereabout. The Smoak, that rests upon the Ground, will bane them. And therefore the Inhabitants have Keepers to keep them from it, for fear of the Infection. That the Country is not furnisht with many Rivers, and Waters, that rise upon the Hills: But from the bottom of the hills there are many Springs round about both to the North, South and West; and those Waters are very wholesome, and produce Rivers, after they have run to some distance from thence. That the Air is moist, cold, foggy, thick, and heavy. That it is observed often covered with mists and fogs; and if any Rain be in the Country thereabout,it is surely there; and 'tis probable, it may arise from the Mineral and Subterraneous Strems. That the Soyle near the furf ce of the Earth is red and stony; and the stones that are drawn out thence, are either of the nature of Firestones, or Lime-stones, but no way Clayie Marly or Chalky. To the 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 Queries. That the Trees, growing thereon, have their tops burnt, and their leaves and out-sides discoloured, and scorched with the Wind, and grow to no bigness or stature. That the Stones and Pebles, that are washed with the Brooks and Springs, are of a reddish colour, and ponderous. That Snow, Frost, and Dew stay upon Mendip longer, than upon any of the neighbouring grounds; but whether the Dew falling upon the ground, will discolour Linnen, I have not observ'd. To the 16, 17, 18, 19 Queries. That Mendip is more than ordinary subject to Thunder and Lightnings, Storms, Nocturnal Lights and fiery Meteors, That the Mists arise out of the Vales; but whether they signifie, where the Minerals are,I cannot say. That the Virgula divinitoria hath not been knowh to have been seen used in these parts. That there are no certain signes above ground, that afford any probability of a Mine, to my knowledge. To the Querie in the fifth Title, I can say liittle save only, That the Ore upon Mendip lies in Veines as a Wall; in some places (527) places deeper, in some shallower; in some places narrower, in some broader; but lies altogether, and is perfect Lead, only in the outside, covered with reddish Earth. To the Queres in the sixth Title, I cannot say much; it must be resolved by them, that melt the Lead-Ore, with which I have not been much acquainted, save only, that they beat the Ore small; then wash it clean in a running stream; then sift tt in Iron-Rudders; then they make of Clay or Fire-stone a Hearth or Furnace, which they set in the ground, and upon it build there Fire, which is lighted with Char-coal, and continued with young Oaken-gadds,blown with Bellows by mens treading on them: And after the Fire is lighted, and the fire place hot they throw their Lead-Ore upon the Wood, which melts down into the Furnace; and then with an Iron-Ladle they take it out, and upon sand cast it into what form they please. So far this account, which is hoped will be made in time more compleat, and succeed with the like Answers from other places. 