An Account of some Books. I. Johannis Wallisii, S. T. D. in Celeberr. Academia Oxoniensi Geometriae Professoris Saviliani, Exercitationes Tres: 1. De Cometarum Distantiis investigandis. 2. De Rationum & Fractionum Reductione. 3. De Periodo Juliana. Londini, 1678. COncerning the first, the Learned Author acquaints us, in the beginning thereof, That about fifteen or sixteen years since, it was proposed to himself by that excellent Mathematician Sir Christopher Wren, as a thing of use, sc. To find out the Distances of Comets from the Earth: and since then, hath been by him, & otherwise than is here, performed. To whom our Author then returned an Answer, sc. This same, which upon our Worthy Countrey-man Mr. John Collins his request, he hath here published. The *See Mr. Hooks Book, entituled, Lectures and Collections; or the Account of it hereafter given in these Transactions. (981) The Probleme he sets down thus; Expositis in eodem Plano, quatuor Rectis positione datis, quintam invenire, quae ab expositis ita secetur, ut interjecta segmenta fint in ratione dat a. Whereof he gives the solution at large. The second Treatise is designed also chiefly for the use of Astronomers; who often enquire, the mutual proportion either of the Parts of some one Planetary Systeme,or of any two Systemes. As a so of the Distances and Magnitudes of Caelestial Bodies. Which to give in the least Numbers, and so as to avoid greater Fractions, is a performance of as great use, as delight, and altogether new. The Probleme,the Solution whereof taketh up the greater part of this Exercitation, is as sollows, vid. Exposita Fractione quavis (puta ~) Fractionem inventre, quae sit vel Expositae aequalis, si fieri possit; vel saltem, quae Expositam vel proxime superet, vel ab ea proxime deficiat, Denominatorem habens dato Numero non majorem: (puta, quae numerum 9 9 9 non superet, seu tres locos non excedat:) sitque in Terminis minimis. For the doing of which, he first lays down his method at large. Next, gives a summary of all the Rules. And then subjoyns several Examples in both the above specified Reductions. To this he adds also, in the end, the way of finding out of the Proportion of the Diametre of a Circle to the Circumference: proposed in his own words thus, vid. Ratio Diametri ad Perimetrum Circuli vero minor, sed continue crescens; seu Perimetri ad Diametrum vero major, sed continue decrescens; donec intra assignatos terminos consistat. The last Treatise containeth the Solution of this Probleme, vid. Exposito Anno, qui sit, verbi gratia, in Cyclo Solari, Annus 2 2, Lunari, 1 4, Indictionum, 7: quaeritur, quotus fit ille Annus Periodi Julianae. II. Martini (982) II. Martini Lister e Societate Regia, Londini, Historiae Animalium Angliae tres Tractatus. Unus, de Araneis. Alter,de Cochleis tum Terrestribus, tum Fluviatilibus. Tertius, de Cochleis Marinis. Quibus adjectus est quartus, de Lapidibus ejusdem Insu~ae ad Cochlearum quandam imaginem figuratis.Londini,apud J.MartynReg.Soc.Typogr. 1678. THe Learned Author, in his Preface, acquaints us, amongst other things, with the great care he took in preparing his Observations for this Work. Principally designing herein a most exact distribution of the kinds of those Animals whereof he Treateth, into their several sorts. To the end, that what ever Experiments or Observations shall be made by others hereafter of these Animals, worthy publishing, they may hereby be referred to their proper places. The first Tract containeth two Books. The former whereof treateth of Spiders in general. As a description of their several Parts, both outward and inward. Of their Generation. The Nature and Emission of their Thred. Casting their Cuticle. Of their Food. Venom. Several either false or dubious Traditions concerning them.Medicines made of them. The Second Book containeth a distribution of Spiders into their several species,as followeth in the Authors own Table. ~ Scutulata Antiquis dicta; scil. universis maculis in eodem plane dispositis, in ~ Reticula modum Scuti sive Orbitae. ~ Aucupes; Conglobata; scil. maculis crebris in ~ qui, Muscas omnes in circuitu dimensiones proceOctonoculi, capiendi dentibus. causa tenTelas linteoformes; scil. Reticulorum filis dunt dense inter se contextis in modum Veli sive Panniculi. Aranei Venatorii; qui aperto marte Mascas insectantur, cum tamen alias texere possunt; nimirum Telas ad Nidificationem,& ad hyberna. ~ Lupi, proprie sic dicti. Cancriformes. Phalangia,s. Aranei Pulices assultim ingredientes. Binoculi, fere longipedes, Opiliones quibusdam dicti, Telis digitatis sive forcipatis, Cancrornm more armati. Under which, he hath also some other Subdivisions, made afterwards, in their several proper places. Of (983) Of all which he likewise exhibits the Figures, sets down the Descriptions,Place, Time of Laying,Manner of Coition. Describes their Eggs, Nests, Nets, Threds. Speaks of their Food and manner of Living, very high ascent into the Air, &c. The Work containing many curious Observations, not only out of our Country-man D. Mousset, and other Learned Authors, but of his own likewise, and such as are altogether new. The Second Tract hath Three Parts. The first of Snails in general. As of their Shells, and other parts both outward and inward. Their Saliva, Eggs, Food. Use in Medicine. Diet,&c. The second of Land Snails. The third of River Snails. The several sorts whereof are figur'd, described, and comprized by the Author within the following Table. Tesfaceae, seu Testis contectae. Breviore figura, Testae Apertura clausa Operculo, e Saliva confecto, ad hyemem Operculo testaceo. Terrestres, Turbinatae, Longiore figura five Buccina; convolutae a Dextra versus sinistram, a Sinistra versus dextram, Compressa. Nudae, Limaces quibusdam dictae. Cochleae Validiore Testa, Operculo testacao clausa, Turbinata, Tenui, pellucida, semper aperta; convolutae a Dextra in sinistram. a Sinistra dextram versus. Fluviatiles, Compressa Testa, Coccum fundentes. Bivalves, Musculi quibusdam dictae. Univalvis, Patelladicta. The (984) The Third Tract is of Sea-Snails, which by the Author are figur'd, and distributed into the following Table. Testae apertura cavaliculata, Buccina rostrata dicta. Laeves. Striatae. Plana Apertura. Figura productione. Breviore. Turbinatae, Intortae, sc. anfractuosae. Orbes non babentes, Echinus dictus. Cochleae formes. Umbone minime omnium extante, Neritae dictae. Basi lata & plana, Trochi dictae. Cochleae Marinae Ex omni Omnium patentissima, i. e. Auris marina. parte arcte clusiles. In angustam rimam formata, i. e. Concha Veneris. Non Striatae. Conchae. Asperae, valvis dissimilibus, Ostreae dictae. Setiferae, Musculi dictae. ~, Striatae. Auritae, Valvis dissimilibus, Pectines. Non Auritae, Valvis aequaliter concavis, Pectunculi. Minus concavae, Tellina quibusdam. Laeves. Altera aut utraque parte semper biantes. Striatae. Loco mobiles vertice integro, Patellae. Univalves, Fixae, vertice aperto, Balani. The (985) The last Book de Cochlitis Angliae, presenteth the Figures and Descriptions of as many as are contained in this Table, vid. Quorum Orbes in se convolvuntur, Cornua Ammonis. Utrinq,ad Umbilicum aequaliter concavi. Intortae, S. Striati. anfractuosi. Laeves. Ex altera tantum paerte. Umbilico utrinque prominulo. Buccinorum in modum producti. Turbinati, Striati. Laeves. Productiores Cochleae formes. Qui Helicem, sc. Volutam non babent. Striati subrotundi, ut Ecbinitae. Striis in omnes partes aequaliter procedentibus. Striis inaequaliter procedentibus. Laeves in ~ fastigiati, ut Belemnitae. Cochlitae Angliae Utraque Testa aequaliter concava. Figura ex altera cardinis parte diffusiore. Ex utrque parte aequaliter diffusi. A cardine ad imum marginem productiores. Ventricosi, quibusdam Bucarditae. Testis inaequalibus. Laeves, ~ Ostracitae. Conchitae rostrati. Auriti, Pectinitae. Striati, Sine auribus, Pectunculitae. The Author in his Preface to this last Book, inclines to their Opinion, who take not these figur'd Bodies for Petrified Shells, but to be bred like other Stones, in the Earth. For which he offers some Arguments either not, or less insisted on by others. These three last Books are composed with the same accurateness as the former. 60 II.Lectures (986) III. Lectures and Collections made by Robert Hooke, Secretary of the R. Society. Printed for J. Martyn, Printer to the R. Society, 1678. THe Work is divided by the Learned Author into two Parts. The first is called Cometa; containing, besides Observations of the Comets of 1664, 1665,and 1677, discourse also on Comets in general. As amongst other particulars, of the Head, Nucleus, and Blaze. That this is not always opposite to the Sun. Their Magnitude, Substance; thought, by the Author, loose and confusible; as from the variation of the Magnetical direction,he supposeth that also of the inner parts of the Earth to be. Density, Mutability, Dissolution, Fluidity, Gravity, Light, Figure,Motion, whether bended or strait, with equal or unequal velocity, &c. A Digression of the method of Speculating the great and first Principles of the Universe. Theory of Comets,as to Parallax hitherto defective. What the World expects from Mr.Hevelius. Parallaxes arising from Hypotheses of the proper motions either of the Earth, or Comet, or both together consider'd, arise to a certainty of the Magnitude of Comets: others,depending on other suppositions, not. Allowing inequality of Motion, and more compounded Curve Lines, nothing can be determin'd. A gravitation towards the Sun, makes out the Motion of the Comet, and direction of the Blaze. Comets waste in the AEther, which is as a ~um to dissolve them. The way of enquiring Parallax by Telescopes further explain'd. A second way by too Observers at a distance propounded: A third way of Sr. Christ. Wren, his Majesties Surveyor General, set down and demonstrated by a Geometrical Probleme, an Invention altogether new. And how exactly all the Observations he had of the abovesaid Comets, were made out by it: together with his own Schemes. Communicated Febr.166~. Speaking of the nature of the Blaze, introduceth a Discourse of the Honourable Mr.Boyle, sc. A Memorial of some Observations made upon an Artificial substance, in the possession of Mr. Crast a famous German Chymist, that shines without any precedent illustration. Wherein, amongst other particulars, is observed, that two spoonfuls of matter did enlighten a large Glass-sphere. Liquor shaken, had a smoke and (987) and flash'd. A dry substance, affirm'd to have continued shining two years,flash'd. Seemed to partake of the odor of Sulphur and of Onions. It fired Gunpowder first warmed. And a White paper,held a considerable distance over Coals. To which are added some Experiments on the Phosphorus Baldwini in vacuo, and in the open Air. To these are added Mr.Gallet's Apparatus for observing ~ in ~, and his observations of 4 Spots in ~; contained in a Letter to Mr.Cassini.Mr.Cassini's reflexions hereon. And his further discoveries about the motion of Jupiter upon its own Axis, and several new Appearances of that Planet. Together with Mr. Hally's Observat. of ~ sub ~. Three Southern Stars never visible in England.And the 2 Nubeculae, called by Saylors, the Magellanick Clouds; in a Letter to Sir Jonas Moore. The Second Part is called Microscopium. In which, two Letters from Mr.Lewenboeck, containing further Observations of the little Animals, of several kinds, bred in Water, after the infusion of Pepper. Likewise of the Particles of Blood,Milk, Phelgm, Gums dissolved and precipitated. The manner how the same were also seen at the Meetings of the R. Society. As also how to find the figure and texture of Animal and vegetable parts.A description both of double and single Microscopes; and how they are to be used. Of the like little Animals (as above) bred upon steeping other Grains in Water, as well as Pepper. Hereto is added a Relation of the Symptoms following the slipping of a Leaden-bullet into the Wind-pipe of a certain person, and there sticking till his death, which hapned not before some years after. Together with what was observable in his Lungs upon Dissection; in a Letter from Mr. James Young, an experienced Chirurgion in Plimouth. 