Anatomical Observations on a Humane Body, dead of odd Diseases; as they were communicated by Dr. Nathanael Fairfax. A Young Maid of Rumborough in Suffolk, when she was about thirteen years of Age, took Chalybeats for the Green-sickness, and found some relief by it, but was after much pent in her wind. From 16 to 22 she much afflicted her self for the Death of her Father and Mother, and the misbehaviour of a Brother; during which time, she had every year an acute Disease or two. At 18, she was very weakly, clogg'd in her Chest, and melancholy. If she went out in a windy day, she was fain to make hast in, for the Wind, she said, was ready to choak her. She was a very slow walker, going up Hill or up Stairs with much difficulty. She was now observed to be very thirsty, usuall drinking at Bedtime, and in the night too, sometimes; else, she said, she should be choakt with drought. Between 21 and 22 of her age, going down stairs, she heard a frightful jolking in her Breast; which she then made known to the rest of the house, who when she shew'd them the manner of it by shaking her Body, joyn'd all with her in the wonder, concluding (as most would have done by the noise) that her Breast was almost full of Water. She took several (547) veral things of Dr. Browne and others at Norwich for about six Months time, without finding Relief. Half a year after, toward Michaelmas, upon taking a slight cold, she was so stopt up, that she could only whisper; nor could she lie flat, but rear'd up with pillows. I being sent for, caused presently a Vein to be open'd, as an Expedient only to make way for a freer Circulation, and room for Nature to disburthen her self. Within less than an hour she got breath, and soon after grew as well as she was before. She affirm'd, she never sweat in her life, nor could it be procur'd by ordinary Sudorificks. Being desirous to add an Empirical remedy, I gave her three of Matthew's Pills, which did sweat her lightly, but beyond what ever she remember'd. Several daily Doses of Lockier's Pills, 4 per dose, remov'd the julking, as she said, lower to the Midriff: when she, fearing an Hyper-catharsis, laid them by for two or three days, and then taking them up again, could find no further alteration by them. She could never lie on her left side. In the 23d year of her Age, in Winter, she had a dangerous Feaver, with a Diarrhaea, but came off. In her 24th, in Winter again, she got cold, was quite stopt up, after five or six days fell into a Convulsion e're she was bled, through want of care in those about her. By late bleeding he had present ease, and chear'd up in the Evening, but died the next Morning. I had leave from her self, whilst living, and from her Relations, when dead, to open her Body; which I did accordingly. First therefore I cleav'd asunder the Breast-bone from the Gartilage, called Ensi-formis, to the Neck; when, laying open the hollow of the Thorax, there steam'd out at first a very offensive smell, notwithstanding the sharp frost there was at that time, it being about Christmas. Then making way to lay open either side of the Sternum, I was surprised to see (as I thought) almost the whole Cavity of the Thorax empty above, (as the Body lay supine) and filled with nothing but thick Milk beneath. But searching further, I found there was only all the right side of the Chest, and about a third part of the left, in that condition. It took up in the part to the Neck-ward a hand-breadth, and ran three fingers thickness to the left of the Mediastinum. The Liquor was like Cream, or rather like a size of Spanish white, having a cast of yellow like Beestings; for putting a spoon into it, from the bottom (548) bottom I took up a thick clammy matter, just like that Spanish White, that sinks to the bottom of its size. In quantity it might be about three Pints, contain'd in a Bag, which was capable to hold as much more and better. The bag ran along from the left shoulder, to the utmost of the right side of the Midriff; not streight along, nor stifly stretcht, but about a hand-breadth from its rise it went directly down to the Midriff, with which it closed all along. Its skin or coat was thicker than that of the stomach, as well as its capacity larger, in as much as the Flexures of the Ribs joyn'd with it, and made up above half the compass. Where it adher'd to the Midriff, 'twas near a finger thick: And in one place, where I endeavour'd to separate it from the Midriff, I hit upon a thinner Bag, whence issued out two or three spoonfuls of sheir water: How it got in, I found not. The Mediastinum was either wholly wasted, or else woven into the thickness of the Bag, as was also the Pleura, as far as the Bag reach'd. It lay loose and slapping from the left Axillar to the Chest, having been before filled and distended either with Lenid or the Liquor. All the hollow was bedabled with the wallowing of the Liquor about, as is the Ouse by the Ebbings and Flowings of the Tide in a Channel. That Lobe of the Lungs, which should have been on the right side, was gone, and that on the left, wasted to near a third part. In the Lower Belly all was well. Dr. Brown saith, he hath met with the like in an Italian Author. His opinion was to salivate her. I had thoughts of a Paracenthesis, or Tapping between the Ribs; for by the noise of the Liquor, and by her not enduring to lye on the left, I concluded it must be in a Cystis on the right. But if that had been done, the Bag being too thick might have mortified. The Jolking was exactly like that of Water or Milk. This Woman was as Flat-breasted as a Man. Whether the Liquor proceeded from the falling down of the Chyle from the Axillars, is a Quaere, but seems to carry in it somewhat of probability. But I must not reflect. Two other Anatomical Observations, imparted by the same hand. 1. A certain Serving-man about 27 years of age, died Hydropical, which Disease he was molested with 4 years before his death. He was (549) was ever a listless, dull, and melancholy fellow, never chearful nor smiling, especially for ten years before he died. His words came from him as if forced, and speaking but a little, he would end with a sigh. When open'd, he was found to have the left Lobe of the Lungs almost quite wasted; but no Ulcer, nor ought preternatural appearing in the remaining part, except its wasting. The heads of the Vessels and branches of the Wind-pipe as big as in the other Lobe. That Lobe of the Liver, which buts on the Mid-riff, was black outwardly for about a hand breadth, and about a thumbs breadth within the Parenchyma. Other parts sound. 2. The other day I took notice in the Corps of a Felon, that whereas ordinarily the Preparing Vessels arise on the right side, out of the Cava, as on the left, out of the Emulgent, his right Vas preparans sprang clearly from the right Emulgent. 