: 2g 2 II. Miscellaneous Obserzzationse By Willi--:a--m Herschels : LL.D. F.JR.S. Read Decelnber 22n 1 791 . Account of a C01neZ. 1XAST: Thursday evening, the tth of December, about half after eight ovclock, while I vas taken up with observing Saturtl, rny sist;er loolied over the lleavens, and discovered a pretty large, telescopic COlZlet, in the breast o-f Lacerta I viewed it in my seven-feet reflector, and with that instrurnent settled its place and rate of moving. At 9h 42/ 4'-',8 true mean time, it preced-ed a sluall telescopic star l-tt93 in time, and was 2' 41" . . . sout-h of the same. TIat-pIace of tlhis star I have since determilled with sufficient accuracy, that it may be found again by those who svish to settle it more exactly. It follows the 2d of FLAMSTEED S stars itl the colastellation of Lacerta, 1' +1",G in tirrle; allct is XS' 4,o",8 tnore south than the same. The apparetlt motion of the comet otl Thursday evetling was direct, and at the rate of about three luinutes of time in right ascellsion, and a little more tlaan tsvo degrees itl polar distallce per day ; from which we rllay suppose that Bre sllall keep it sotne time in viEWo' lLast xligYnt I examimed it vith a tvvrenty-feet re2ector, aad found it to consist o:f a great light, pretty regRearly scattered Dr. HERSCHEL)S Miscellaneous ObservGltaons.4about acondensed slnall part of five or six seconds iil diameter; which resembled a kitld ei: nucleus, but had not tlle least appearance of a solid body. Besicie the scattered, and graduallat diminishing light which reached llearly to a distance of three minutes every way beyond the bright centre, there wvas also a faintly extended, ill defineds pretty broctd ray, of al3out lS minutes in length, directed towards the n-orth followitlg part of the heaven, svhich nzight be callect the tail of the comet. Its -place for tlae sarne llight (Dec 16th) was determined by a five-feet Newtonian SweeSer carryitlg an equilateral triangle in the focus of the eye-glass, not so large but that the three intersections, made by the wires at the tllree angles, may be distinctly perceived. At tSh 49t 4ot'd it preceded the 6th Lacerta 4r*S8"nS in time and was 521 14'> lnore north than tllat star. On the periodical Appearartce of o Ceti. The changeable star itl the neck of the Whale, o Ceti, con tinues its rrariations as usualn but with some considerable irregularities of brightness In the year 17799 as n/e have seenX, it excelled os Arietis so far as almost to rival Aldebaratz ; and colltitlued in that state a full lnonLth. Irl l780 its greatest brightness was only like that of S Ceti. In the year 178In it did not come up to the briglltness of R. In 1 ;78g, this star itlcreased to the size of n Ceti, and continued bright for tnore than twenty days. In 178g, it did rlot only vanish to the naked eyen as usllal but dlisappeared-so colmpletely9 that I cotlld not find it with a t Phil. Trans. Vol. LXX. page 3 3 8. Dr. HERSC HEL}S Miscellancous Observ;tions.2telescopei, which permitted not a star of the O+th lmaglaitude to escape me. \Vhen it increased again, it did 1z0t amoulat to the briglatness of S In z784, I saw it ollly of the 8tEL 1nagnitude in a twentyfieet reflector, but as I dld not continue to observe it regularly it might possibly change as usual. In 1789, it arrived to tlle brighttless of oc Pisciu1z1, or rather excelled it. In 1790, the greatest brightness was almost equal to that of a Ceti. In the present year, I have se@n it only of the xnagnitude of y Ceti nearly; or-between y alld ?; but, as bad weather has oc casioned many interruptiorls, it tnay possibly have been larger. The period of SSS days, assigned by BOUILLAUD, does not agree with present observations compared to those of FABRICIUS made on the th of Augustn 1z596, when this 5tAr W8S i11 its greatest lustre. M. CASSINI also found, that his observations, in the begll1nitlg of August, 170g, when the star was brightest, did not agree with the interval of gg days ; and therefore supposing the star to have charlged 1I7 times since the epoch of FABRICIUS, he gave it a periocI of 3S« days. This will however, ot agree with the pr-esent time of the changes; alad it appears now that M. CASSINI ought to have assumed 118 instead of 1 o7 variations ; which would have pointed otlt a period of g days, and some hours. That thisiis,probably, verynear the real time of the star's variatioll, will be seen wherz vVte admit it to have undergone 214 changes between the th of August, ] Gg6, and the 2 1st of October, 1790; by whicll long interval ure obtaira the perio(l of 33o days, lo llours 19 minutes. It will indeecl, be necessary, MDCC XC I r . E Dr. HERSCHEL'S Miscellaneous Observations.in order to reconcile all observations to z admit of sotne occasional deviations ill the appearance of the star, amounting almost to a montll; but that this is tlo more than we may allow, is pretty evident frozn the variations I have taken rstice of within tIze last 14, years; besides, a period of g4 days could not be admitted wichout totally givingP up all regularity in the returning appearance of the star. I have taken tlle epoch of the 2tst of October, o79°s as oe of the lest ascertained, moderate appearances I have been able to obtain; and believe it to be more proper for settlitlg the period than that which miglat be deduced from a brllliant blaze of the star such as took place in 779 owirlg to causes that are ot regular, and therefore may be apprehended to (listurb the g-elleral order of the changeZ On tbe Disappearan¢e ofthe th Herculis. Among the changes that happen ila the siciereal heavens we enurxwerate the loss of stars; but, notwithstanding the real destruction of an heavenly body may not be impossible we have some reasons to th-ink that the disappearatlce of a star is probably owing to causes which are of the same laature svith fllose that act-upon periodical-stars ssthen they occasion their temporary occultations. This suhjectn however belng of great exterlt and conse6quence) we shall not enter into it at presents but only relate a recent installce of the kind. Two stars of the th magnitude whose places sre find inserted in a11 our best catalogues, vzere to be seerl ill the neck of Hercules. They are the 54th and ,gth of FT AMSTEED'S, in that constellation. In the year 781) the oth of OctoberX I Dr. HERSGI1EL'S ]lscellaneous Observtions.27examined them both,-and marked down tlleir colour) red. lChe zzth of April, 1 j782, I lc3cakedoat them again, arld noted my havitlg seen tllem distinctly, vvith a poNver of 460; and that they snere single stars. The 24th of last May) I tnissed one of the two, and examining the spot again the 2tSth, and many times -aft-erw?ards, foulld that one of them was rlot to be seen. The situation of the stars is such that, not having fixed illstrumerlts, I could not well determiile which of the two vwras the lost one. 1 I therefore requested the favour of 1ny much esteemed friend, the astronomer royal, to ascertain the remaining star; and it appears from Dr. 1!#IASKELYNE'S answer to my letter that the stl Herculis is the orle which we llave lost. Remctrkable Phnon?ena in cttl Eclipse of tbe AIoon. The 22d of Octobers oygos when the moon was totally eclipsed, I viented the disk of it with a tenty-feet reflector carrying a lmagnifying povwrer of :360. In several -parts of it I pervceived many bright, red, luminous points. Most of them were small and round. The brightness of the moon, notwithstanding the great defilcation of light occasioned by the eclipse, vvtould not permit me to view it long enough to take the places of these points. They were, itldeed, very nulue-< rous ; as I suppose that I saw, at least, one hundred and fifty of thems lnheir light did not much exceed t}aat of Mons Porphyrites HEVELII We know too little of the surface of the mooll to venture at a surmise of the cause from whence the great brightness, simi larity, and rernarkable colour of these points could arxse Sloughn Dec e 1 7 1 79 i1 e 1£s !3 