An Account Of some Observations made by Mr. Samuel Colepresse at and nigh Plimouth, An. 1667, by way of Answer to some of the Quaeries concerning Tides, propos'd Numb. 17. and 18. 1. OUr Diurnal Tides,from about the latter end of March'till the latter end of September,are about a foot higher (perpendicular, which is always to be understood) in the Evening than in the Morning, that is, in every Tide that happens after 12 in the day before 12 at night. 2. On the contrary, the Morning Tides from Michaelmas 'till our Lady-day in March again, are constantly higher by about a foot than those that happen in the Evening. And this proportion holds in both, after the gradual increase of the Tides rising (633) rising from the Neap to the highest Spring; and the like decrease of its height 'till Neap again is deducted. 3. The highest Menstrual Spring. Tide is always the third Tide after the New or Full-Moon, if a cross Wind do not keep the Water out, as the North-east or North-west usually doth; whose contrary Winds, if strong, commonly make those to be High-Tides upon our Southern Coasts, which otherwise would be but low. 4. The highest Springs make the lowest Ebbs: (though I am inform'd by an expert Waterman, that it sometimes happens, that there may be a very low Ebb, though no high Spring, which they term an Out-let, or Gurges of the Sea; as when a great Storm chances off at Sea, and not on the Land.) 5. The Water neither flows nor ebbs alike, in respect of equal degrees; but its Velocity increaseth with the Tide 'till just at Mid-water, that is, half flown, or at half Flood, at which time the Velocity is strongest, and so decreaseth proportionably 'till High-Water or Full Sea. As may be guess'd at by the following Scheme, collected from my loose Papers, containing the Observations, as they were made at several times and places; which I rather set down as a standing proportion of degrees in the general, than to adequate every single Flux or Reflux so exactly as to half inches, or the like; but yet it may bear the odd minutes above six hours well enough. And it is farther to be noted, that although this be restrained to Plymouth Haven, or the like, where the Water usually riseth about 16 Foot (I say usually, because it may vary in this Port from the lowest Neap to the highest Annual Spring above 7 or 8 Foot) yet it may indifferently serve for other places, where it may rise as many fathom, or not so high, by a perpetual Addition or Subtraction. The (634) The Scheme it self. ho. foot. inch. ho. foot. inch. 1-1...6 1-1...6 2-2...6 2-2...6 3-4...0 3-4...0 Of Flowing Of Ebbing 4-4...0 4-4...0 5-2...6 5-2...6 6-1...6 6-1...6 6. The usual number of Tides, or times of High-water from New-Moon to New-Moon, or from Full-Moon to Full-Moon, is 59. So far the Remarks hitherto made by this inquisitive person upon the Subject of Tides, who not only promiseth his own continuance for farther Observations,but also his care of recommending the said Tide-Quaeries to the constant observation of an intelligent person living just on the Sea-side. 