[726] An account of a Salt Spring, and another Medicinal Spring, on the banks of the River Weare, or Ware in the Bishoprick of Durham in a Letter to the Publisher, from the ingenious Mr. Hugh Todd Fellow of University College in Oxon, and Chaplain to the right Reverend Father in God -----Lord Bishop of Carlile. S I R I am so much oblig'd to you for your many Favours when I was with you; that now, when I am at so great a distance from Oxon, I cannot pass by any oportunity of serving you, in visiting the Curiosities of Art or Nature (with which the Northern parts Durham, and Cumber land especially, do abound) and in giving you an account of what, I judge, may be worth your knowledge. When I was at Durham I was informed of an extraordinary Salt-Spring, and another Mineral-Spring, about a mile, or a mile and half out of Town. Upon the first leasure time that I had, I went to see them; as I found, some of the Lawyers that came the Circuit, and many other Gentlemen had done. The Salt-Spring, lyes, as I said, about a mile and half out of Town, on the North-East side, at a place called Salt-water haugh near Butterby. It rises in the middle of the River Weare or Ware; and is good to be seen, and tasted, only in the Summer time, when the water is discharg'd all, on one side of the Channel: for in Winter, when the River is high it looses its Salts, in the fresh streams, so that they are not perceivable. The water does not rise at one or two or three places, but seems to bubble up equally in all parts in the Channel, for the space of 40 yards in length, and about 10 in breadth: for, whereever, [727] wherever, in that Spot, you remove the stones and sand, you shall perceive the water, presently arise and spring up. That, which I admired most, is, that the ~ of all the Springs, issues out of the middle of a Rock. I supposed that the brinyness of its waters might be caused by the heat of the Sun, continually beating upon them, as they lay upon the Rock; the surface of which was manifestly saltish; and which, in a hot day (as I was told) would be all covered over with a perfect Salt. But I was undeceiv'd in this conjecture, by having all the water lav'd out of the place, where it seem'd to stagnate: for immediatly,out of the body of the Rock there bubbled up water, as salt as the former. As to the degree of its saltness, it was as high, as any brine can be, and tho but little in quantity in comparison of the fresh River, yet of that force as to give a brackishness to the streams, a 100 yards below. Those that have boyled this Brine, (I had not time to try the experiment my self,) say that it affords a great quantity of Bay Salt, not so palatable, yet as useful as ordinary Salt is. It tinges all the stones with a Red colour. The original of this Spring, cannot be fetch d any farther off, then the Rock, out of which it issues; for the Sea, which is the great Treasure of Salt-water is at too great a distance, to dispence any streams to this Place: being 8 miles off, where nearest. On the other side of the River, there is lately discover'd a Medicinal Spring, which is, this year much frequented, and may be of great benefit to the Country. It was found out, by workmen that dug in that place for Coal. When they were 12 fathom and a half deep, they discoverd this Treasure of Natural Physick; which may be as good to the people, as what they sought for; tho Coal, be a Commodity very necessary and beneficial to these Parts. The workmen thus failing of their Expectation, try'd the Rock about a 100 yards off: where they lost S them[728] themselves, much about the same depth; and instead of Coal, discover'd a Spring of excellent clear Water, which issues out at the Hole, which their Instruments made. I tell you this, that you may confirm your observations, of the many different apartments there are in the Earth; and with what different Treasure they are furnish'd. I can say no more; I will only promise what I will say another time; and send the first oportunity. I will give you an account of a Runick Inscription, (mention'd but not understood by Mr. Camden,) on the Font in Bridekirk in Cumberland. I shall tell you something too, of two very Ancient Monuments something of the form of, Stonehenge, but they seem far more ancient. And shall as I am able, give you Excripts of many Roman Inscriptions, which abound in this Country. In point of obligation and gratitude; I will send you some Roman Urns, which I had at Durham. A piece of the Salt Rock, where the Spring issu'd out, which is of a sparkling substance. And if you will be at the Cost of Carriage, I will indeavour to send the Stones that have the Inscriptions on them. Where I can have them, I shall not omit any Oportunity to serve you, and the Society. Pray let me have what Queries you think fit to be satisfy'd in; and some Rules to direct my Disquisitions, by the first Opportunity: that when I visit all the Parts of this Country, which will be shortly, I may be the abler to serve you. I have made enquiry, as to the Longevity of those that live in Mountanous Parts: and find, by Relation, that they out-live any that I have heard off in the South: but, that I am so unhappy, as not to be able to make any perfect account, about that Affair. The next Spring Visitation will give me oportunity to consult the Registres and Church-Books; and so make me abler [729] abler to give an exact, credible Relation, which I shall be sure to doe. As I Travell'd over Stanemoore in Yorkshire, I observ'd the River Greatah, (a River about half as big as Charwell at Oxford) run under ground for about a Mile, so that we passed over it, dry-foot. The passage under ground is but narrow; so that in winter when the streams are high, it keeps the Channel above ground. S I R, I am Your most Oblig'd Friend and Humble Servant HUGH TODD. S 2 Exercitatio 