(2096) A Narrative of a Monstrous Birth in Plymouth, Octob. 22. 1670; together with the Anatomical Observations, taken thereupon by William Durston Doctor in Physick, and communicated to Dr. Tim. Clerk. ONE, Grace Batter'd, the wife of a shoemaker, of honest Repute, and mother of five Children, now come to the full time to be delivered of a sixth Birth, about twelve a Clock at night began to have travelling pains; and near four a Clock in the morning the Head of a Child came to the Birth: When the Midwife, putting her hand to help off this, felt another, (by its heat and motion) alive; and therefore made all possible speed to deliver her of this. 'Tis observable, that in three of her former five travels she was so quick, as that she was deliver'd before the Midwife came; but now she could not so speedily effect her desire, in regard that not only the first child was suffocated by its stay in the birth; but also the Head of the second turning aside from the inner orifice of the Uterus towards the groine, and the Twins being joyn'd together (as afterwards appeared) made it a different Birth. But the Midwife doing her part exceeding well, and the Mother having nimble travel, was delivered of those prodigious Twins, the effigies of which is here sent you inclosed, (See Table 2. Figure 1.) together with an Accompt of what we thought further worth observation. This Birth, as you see, had two Heads, and two Necks, as also the Eyes, Mouths, and Ears, sutably double. Four Arms with Hands, and as many Leggs and Feet. There was to both but one Trunk; but two Back-bones, from the Clavicles to the Hypogastrium, and from the shoulders down to the bottom of the Loins they were not distinct, but cemented and concorporated, after this manner: The right Clavicle or Channel-bone of the Right-hand-Child (being long) joyned with the left Clavicle of the Left-hand-Child. The Ribbs on the face-side of both of them, by the CArtilages or Gristles were united without any intervening Sternum or Brest-bone; and (2097) and so made a common Chest to them both: And the Ribbs of both on the Back-part were united by the Gristles; and from the Clavicle down to the Hypogastrium or bottom of the Belly there, were so conjoyned, that they made but one common Belly, with one Navel-string to them both; but from the Hypogastrium downwards they were divided, and became two, each having the perfect parts of Females. Having with some difficulty obtained the Fathers leave to dissect it, we first weighed this Birth; the weight whereof was eight pounds and a quarter; the Circumference of the left head was about eleven Inches, that of the right being half an Inch less. The Circumference of the Trunk was about Sixteen Inches and a quarter; and the length of both, from head to foot, was full eighteen inches and an half. We found one Navil-vein, and one Liver, but that was very large, with the Bladder of Gall seated in its usual place: but there were two Urinary Bladders, two Wombs, four Kidneys, and one Stomach, with the Oesophagus or Gullet perforate and open from the Mouth of the left head; but the Oesophagus from the Mouth of the right head descended no lower, than a little above half an inch off the Mid-riff, and there it ended. No further could we follow it with the probe, but doubting a failure in that Experiment, we made an Essay with a Blowpipe, and thereby we found, that the Wind would go no further than the place abovementioned. Whence it may be concluded, that the Right-handed Child must have received its nourishment by and from the Left Child. There was but one Colon or Colick gut, which terminated into two Intestinarecta. So there was but one Midriff, and above that, we could find little or no appearance of Lungs; but only a very large Heart, (with two Auricles,) the figure of which was not Conical, but like a Souldiers pera or Snapsack, or the Ventricle or Stomach; and lying near under the Clavicles, transverse, as the Stomach lyeth under the Midriff and Liver. We did also observe two Ventricles with the tricuspid or sigmoid-valves; as also the Vena Cava and Aorta dependant, and also the Aorta ascending and bisurcate towards each neck, and then bifurcate again. These (2098) These Twins were exactly like one another; very well featured, having also pretty neat and handsome Limbs. They had their hair more than ordinarily thick, and about half an Inch long,and the nails full grown. We might have proceeded to further Observations, but time and the tumultuous concourse of people,as also the night, and likewise the Fathers importunity to hasten the Birth to the Grave,hindred us. The Mother is at this time in as good a Condition of Health,as Women in Child bed use to be. Tab: 2. Trans. No. 65 Fig I. 