An Account of some Books. I. N O V E A U X E L E M E N S D E G E O M E T R I E: Or a Mathematical Treatise, entituled, New Elements of Geometry, printed at Paris in quarto, Anno 1667. Divided into 15 Books or Sections, containing A new Method and Order, and new Demonstrations of the most common Propositions in Geometry. New ways to discover what Lines are incommensurable. New measures of Angles not hitherto considered. New ways of finding out,and demonstrating the Proportion of Lines. Wherein we observe, that the Author delivers by a new Method and Order of his own, grounded upon Algebraical Elements, divers new Demonstrations of the more common Propositions, contained chiefly in the first six Books of Euclid's Elements, and without recourse to Euclid, or any other Geometrical Writer, for proof of any thing asserted in those new Elements. Whereto is added, the Solution of an Arithmetical Problem, which the Author calls Magick Squares, viz. A square of Cells being given, even or odd, filled with Numbers, either in an Arithmetical or Geometrical Progression; so to dispose all those Numbers into (626) into another like square of Cells, that all the Numbers of each band, whether to the right or to the left, upwards or downwards, or diagonally, the Numbers given being in an Arithmetical Progression, added together, do always make the same Sum, and those in a Geometrical Progression, multiplied into one another, do always make the same Product. II. SYNOPSIS OPTICA, Auth. HONORATO FABRI, Soc. Jesu, Lugduni Gall. in 4~. Ann. 1667. This Author pretends to have comprised in this Treatise, containing 58 Propositions, besides many Corollaries, all what hath been hitherto discover'd in Opticks, and to have added thereto many curious and useful remarks, not mentioned in other Authors. He begins with that part which is the most simple, and considers the straight Ray, called by the general name of Opticks; where he shews, what is the cause of those surprizing effects of the Perspective, which so pleasingly deceive the eye; examining there many curious Experiments. In the second part (the Catoptricks, that have for their Object Rays, reflected) he gives an account of all the Apparences in Looking-Glasses, Convex, Concave, Cylindrical, &c. In the third (the Dioptricks,that consider Rays refracted) he treats largely of Telescopes of all sorts, Spherical, Elliptical, Hyperbolical; as also of Microscopes, and the effects of all of them: Where, among many other particulars, he delivers and commends, as an invention of Eustachio Divini, the way of furnishing a Telescope, with two Eye-Glasses, outwardly flat, and inwardly convex, so as that they touch one another in the center of their convex Superficies. In this part he explicates the Doctrine of Refractions and Parallaxes; annexing several particulars concerning Comets, the Ring of Saturn, &c. and concluding all with an Appendix, wherein having refuted the Spiral Hypothesis, devised to support the Ptolemaick System of the World,he advanceth a new one,judged by him very suitable to render an account of the Motion of the Celestial Bodies in the same System that supposeth the Earths immobility, which he seems unwilling to desert. III. DE VI PERCUSSIONIS, JOH. ALPHONS. BORELLI. Bononiae in 4~. 1667. Whereas in the doctrine of Percussion several things are to be accurately distinguith'd, as the Force percussive, the Motion, or theVelocity of the Percussion, and the Resisrance of the Body percussed; and then an Estimate to be made of the Proportion of those three to one another. This Author pretends to have both assigned that Difference, and demonstrated the Proportion; adding, that though Galilaeo saw and acknowledged (vid. at the end of his fourth Dialogue De motu projectorum) That the Force of Percussion was Insinite,or (rather) unlimitted, yet he there referr'd discoursing upon that Argument to another opportunity; which not having been performed by him (for ought could be found by any of his Writings, either Printed (627) printed or Manuscript, which latter were purposely searched after his death to find such a Discourse) our Author pretends, that that Proposition concerning the Infiniteness of the force of Percussion, not having been yet demonstrated by any, he hath in this Book resumed the whole matter concerning Percussion, and clearly demonstrated the true and genuine Nature of it, its Cause, Proprieties, and Effects. In the doing of which, he taketh occasion to discourse also of Gravity, Magnetism, Tremor of Bodies, Pendulums, &c. All which, whilst the Reader is considering, the Author tells him, that he is making ready his other Books concerning the Motions of Animals. IV. NIC. STENONIS MUSCULI DESCRIPTIO GEOMETRICA, Florentiae in 4. Ann. 1667. The Author of this Book declareth, that his design in composing it was to shew, that in a Muscle neither the Parts of it can be distinctly named, nor its Motion duly considered, unless the Doctrine thereof become a part of the Mathematicks. And he is of opinion, that there is no other cause of the many Errors, which spoil the History concerning the Humane Body, than that Anatomy hath hitherto disdain'd the Laws of the Mathematicks: And therefore inviteth those that are studious in that part of Philosophy, to consider, that our Body is an Engine made up of a thousand subordinate Engines, whose true knowledge whoever thinks that it can be investigated without Mathematical assistance, must also think, that there is matter without Extension, and Body without Figure. Hereupon he shews, that the very Fabrick of the Muscles imposeth a kind of necessity upon considering Writers to explicate them Mathematically: In conformity whereunto, he pretends to have found, that in every Muscle there is one Parallelepiped of Flesh, and two Tetragonal Prisms of Tendons, defining a Muscle to be a Body composed of divers Series's, or ranks of Fibres, equal, like, and parallel among themselves, and so immediately placed upon one another, that whole Ranks are congruous to whole Ranks. Here he explains the Dimensions of a Muscle, its Contraction and Strength; and adds, that the use of this new discovery of the structure of the Muscles, is to demonstrate, That they may swell in their Contraction without the Accession of new Matter. He subjoins a Letter to Monsieur Thevenot, in which, among other things, he alledges several Experiments, to shew, that the motion of the Heart is like the motion of Muscles; and answers those who pretend, that the true Fabrick of the Heart hath already been observed heretofore; and those likewise who think, that these new Observations of the Muscles are uncertain, concluding this Subject with an enumeration of the Particulars, yet remaining to be search'd into in the History of the Muscles. To all these things he adds two Narratives; one, of a dissected Head of a Shark, which he calls Canis Carcharia, where he delivers many curious Observations of the Skin, Eye, Optick Nerves, Ocular Muscles, exceeding small(628) smallness of the Brain, as also of the Mouth, and strange Teeth of this Fim examining withall, whether the Glossopetrae be the Teeth of this Creature or Stones produced by the Earth; in which Controversie he takes their part, who maintain, that those and divers other substances sound in the Earth, are parts of the Bodies of Animals, and endeavours to prove, that such sorts of Earth may be the sediments of Water, and such Bodies, the parts of Animals carried down together with those Sediments, and in progress of time reduced to a stony hardness.* *This Subject Mr. Hook hath also discoursed of at large in several of his publick Lectures, founded by Sir John Cutler; which Lectures he read about two years since in Gresham College, in the presence of many Learned and Curious persons; which also had been long since made publick, had not other indispensable Affairs hindred him from taking care of the Press: where he hath not only shewn the Origin of these Glossopetrae, but of all other curiously figur'd Stones and Minerals; together with that of Mountains, Lakes, Islands, &c. tho from a somewhat differing Hypothesis, of which the Curious may shortly receive a further account. The other Narrative is of a Female Dog-Fish, diffected also by himself, where do occur no less remarkable Observations than in the former, both of the parts in the Head, and of those in the Body; as touching the small weight of the Brain of this Fish, compared to the weight of its Body; several little Fishes found in the Stomach, untouch'd by any Teeth; the Ureters, the Ovarium, and Ovidictus, where he digresses to shew, Mulierum testes esse Ovario analogos, and refers for further proof of this to his intended Treatise, which is, to give an account de partium Genitalium Analogia. 