(19) III. An Account of the probable Causes of the Pain in Rheumatisms; as also of the Cure of a total Suppression of Urine, not caused by a Stone, by the use of Acids; as communicated by Dr. Edward Baynard, Fellow of the Colledge of Physicians, London. T H I S Ingenious Physician was always of the Opinion, that the Pains in a Rheumatism were not caused from any Saline or Acid Particles in the Blood, &c. but rather from its Clamminess and Density extending the Channels through which it passes, which Extension produces those sharp and pungent Pains which Rheumatismatick Persons so generally complain of; for although the proper Coats of the Veins and Arteries seem to be indolent in themselves, yet those thin Membranes which obside them are most exquisite of Sense, and full of Lymphae-ducts, which being dilated and stretch'd, cause an Inflammatory Symptomatical Fever, with continual Sweats; the Blood being Glutinous and Seizy, as in Quinsies and Pleurisies, and all other Inflammatory Distempers. The Fever being increased by the great store of Alkalial Corrosive Salts lodging in the Blood, causing Thirst, &c. and not diluted and wash'd off by Urine, which Urine is always thick, turbid, and highcolour'd, and almost, if not totally devoid of any Saline Impregnations. To prove which, he sent six Quarts of a strong Man's Urine in the heighth of a Rheumatism, to that Ingenious Artist Mr. George Moult, who Chymically Anatomiz'd it, and found not above the Thirtieth Part of those Salts, usually found in such a quantity of the Urine of a sound Person. Another (20) Another Experiment of Dr. Baynard's was this, viz. Mr. Bannister, an Apothecary in Old Fish-street, London, desired the Doctor to visit a Servant of his, who for seven or eight days laboured under a total Suppression of Urine. Upon which, he supposing it might proceed from some Stone fallen upon the Neck of the Bladder, bid him send to Mr. Charles Bernard, an Eminent Surgeon, to try his Catheter, which accordingly he did, but found not the least appearance of any Stone there, nor a drop of Water in his Bladder; whereupon the Doctor supposing that it might be the same Case, of which that most Learned Prelate, Dr. Wilkins, late Bishop of Chester dyed, caused the Patient to take a quantity of Acids in a convenient Vehicle, upon which Secretion being presently made, he immediately urined in great quantity, and was thereby restored to his Health. The like Experiment was made on a Gentleman, a Member of this present Parliament, by Dr. Baynard and Dr. Cole, where the aforesaid Mr. Charles Bernard had tryed the Catheter, and found it the Apothecary's Case, who was by the use of Acids restored to his Health: And in several Cases since he has found it to answer with great success. In another Case where the said Mr. Bannister was concerned as an Apothecary,in a great Suppression of Urine, and after many Medicines given in vain and to no purpose, he proposed Dr. Baynard's Method, which caused the Patient to Urine presently, and he was also restored to his Health. IV. An 