(717) II. Particular Observations upon different Maladies; gathered by Monsieur Gaillard the Son, Doctor of Physick, of the Faculty of Tolouse. Taken from the Journal de Savans of the 29th of July, and of the 5th of August, 1697. These are the Observations in order as they were made at Tolouse. I. THERE was seen there, Twelve Years ago, an Infant who had Two Heads; one was a sort of a Bag, resembling the Hood of a Benedictin Monk, and was fastened to a Neck of the same length with the Neck of the other Head. Master Peter, sworn Chyrurgeon, opened it in Presence of Mr. Bayle, Doctor of Physick, and Master of Arts, and Master Carboneau, sworn Chyrurgeon. The Waters having run out, this Swelling evanisht; the Neck did not so, that part of it which was next to its Original, and which had about the length of Two Inches and an Half, was made up of Flesh. This Child lived Fifteen Days. 2. In the Suburb St. Cyprien, near to the Hospital of St. Joseph of Grace, Mr. Soye, a Skilful Surgeon, having opened the Daughter of a Cap Maker, dead of the Kings Evil, in the Month of April, 1685. remarkt, That the Glands of the Mesentery were petrified, most of them were about the bigness of a Walnut, and others of a Small Nut; in some of them, being opened, he found about a Dozen of Stones. O o o o o 3. Mr. (718) 3. Mr. Bousquet, Citizen of Tolouse, being dead on the Eighth of March, 1686. of a continual Fever, and a spitting of Blood, accompanied with a Difficulty of Breathing, Mr. Delpech, sworn Surgeon, opened him in Presence of many Surgeons. He found in the Right Kidney Three little Stones, and some Gravel. Going down the Ureter, which was much enlarged, he found a tough Stone of the bigness of a Bean, lodg'd towards the lower Orifice of the same Passage: The Lungs stuck to the Pleua, to the Mediastin, the Diaphragme, and Pericardium: The Wind Pipe was full of Blood. There was seen in the Left Lobe, and the Back part of the Lungs, a Bony Substance Two Inches long, and half an Inch broad: There were Two Polypuses in the Heart, one in each Ventricle, of the bigness of a Pigeons Egg, whose Roots were Ten Inches long; the Vena Cava both ascendent and descendent was cover'd at its Entry into the lest Ventricle of the Heart, with a Bony Matter. 4. Mr. Soye having, in May 1689. opened the Vena Basilica of the Right Arm of Mad. de St. Paul, a Religious of the Hospitalers of this City, in Presence of Mr. Cartier, Professor of Physick,and Dean of the Faculty, observed a little Black Blood that stopt the Orifice he had made, and being willing to take it away to open the Passage, he sound that 'twas a Polypus Ten inches long. 5. In Sept. 1687. the Sieur Soye having in the Hospitalers, opened a Servant Maid aged between 25, and 26. which was from time to time seized with a Bloody Flux, he found the Colon and part of the Mesentery ulcerated. The Mouth of this Ulcer was so great, that one might easily thrust in his Fist at it. It was stopt with a Clew of Worms greater than it. There (719) 6. There happened much about the same Time a Passage, singular enough, in that Monastery, Mhaving stopt on a sudden a Flux of Blood in Madam Maria, who had her Catamenia (though she had a continual Fever and a bleeding at the Nose) before he had used general Medicines, she fell all on a sudden into an Apoplexy, and dying quickly after, Mr. Soye open'd her, in Presence of her Father the Counsellor to the Grand Chamber, and of Mr. Cases sworn Surgeon; he found in the lateral Sinus, which divides the Brain from the Cerebellum, a Clot of Blood as big as a Hazel Nut. All the Vessels of the Brain were very much swel'd and full of clotted Blood; as for the Ventricles they were full of a serous Humour, being about the Quantity of a Setier. 7. That which was remarkt in Madam le Gendre, who dyed a Maid of Eighteen Years Old, about the End of November 1693. seems more considerable. This Gentlewoman who was subject to great Head-aches, and almost continual Faintings, and Convulsive Fits, was, the Two last Years of her Life, so strongly seiz'd with them, that she became Blind of them, and continued in that Condition Two or Three Months. After Death she was open'd by Mr. Joye, in the Presence of Mr. Thouron, Doctor of Physick; when he came to the Grey Substance of the Brain, he found above the Ventricles between the Cortical Substance and the Callous Body, a lump of Flesh, resembling the Stomach of a Goose. Immediately after the Callous Body in the foremost Ventricles did appear an Ulcer from which came out about a Setier of Matter. 8. In the beginning of September, 1695. Monsieur Soye opening the Gall Bladder of a Widow of Nineteen Years Old, he found there a Stone altogether like a Hens Egg,that part of the Liver which was near, was hurt, and O o o o o 2 her (720) her Matrix Scirrhous. She had for Two Years the Yellow Jaundice. 9. The same M. Soye, having in Sept. 1696. open'd a Child of Mr. Roye Notary, in Presence of Mr. Lambert, Doctor of Medecine, found in the Ventricles of the Brain a Setier of Water. 10. In another Child of Mr. Hugonien, Woollen Draper, which he opened much about the same Time,and which was about Two Years Old, he found in the Right Ventricle of the Heart, a Polipus as big as a Pigeons Egg, and in the Left Ear coagulated Blood of the Bigness of a Walnut; he found moreover in the little Lobe of the Lungs Two Ulcers very distinct, from each of which there issued a Setier of Matter. The Ureter of the Left Kidney was distended an Inch, and its Passage stopt by Phlegm so hardned, that scarcely could a Knife cut it. 11. Madam de l' Etcarre, about Twenty Six Years of Age, and subject to great Diseases, was opened in the beginning of October 1695. by M. Soye, in Presence of M. Lambert; he saw the Vessels that brought the Blood to the Membranes of the Brain, were greatly swell'd, and full of Polipus's; of them we drew out Twelve, some Four Inches long, and some Three. 12. In the Beginning of this Year 1697. the Wife of M. Masoc, Merchant, being Forty Years Old, who had Four or Five Children, had the same Symptoms which happen to Women near their Labour. M. Soye was called to her, and seeing that she suffer'd such a Loss as happens to Women before their bringing forth, or upon some Hurt, made ready for laying of her. We saw presently a False Conception, which appear'd at the inner Orifice of the Matrix; this he pull'd out, perceiving it loose from its Ligaments. This false Conception was of the bigness of a Goose Egg, and shapt like a Kidney: (721) Kidney: There was also so great a Similitude between the Structure of the Kidney, and this Mass of Flesh, that the Fibres were wholly alike. This Woman said, that this False Conception had been Two Years in her Matrix. After it was out, she had the same Loss of Blood, as in her other Lyings in, and keeping to the same Course as she used in such Occasions, she had no bad Consequences of it. 13. There was observed in a Child newly born, and in due time, that it had nothing of the Bone in the hinde part of the Head, the Temporal Bones, nor of the Frontal Bone as far as the Eyes, so that the Eyes made an Appearance of Two Horns, which the Calves have when they come into the World, which standing much out, made the Child's Face very monstrous. In the Temporal Bones there was nothing seen but what enclosed the Organ of the Hearing; upon laying the Hand upon it was felt the beating of the Arteries, and the Vessels which watered the Pia and Dura Mater, were seen distinctly, as if the Bone had been taken off. This Child lived in this State, Four or Five Days, and received Baptism before it died. 14. M. Soye the Younger, a Surgeon, having open'd a Young Girl, found her Matrix so schirrous, that it seem'd to be made but of one Piece. 15. The same observed since, such a thing in a Girl Two Years old, that died of an Apoplexy; he found also Four Glands in the Mesentery of this Maid, each as big as a Walnut; he has since seen that the Mesentery of a Child Seven or Eight Years Old, was made of Two Glands, each of the same bigness. 16. M. Barriere, sworn Surgeon, found in a Girl of Eleven or Twelve Years Old, instead of a Matrix, a very thin Membrane placed where the Matrix is. The Vagina in the outward Orifice was shut up Hermetically, (722) cally, i. e. the Cover was of the same Piece with the Matrix. 17. Mr. Carlan, sworn Surgeon; having observ'd in a Man a Swelling as big as a Pullets Egg, upon the Place call'd Fontanella, and cover'd with Hair like the rest of the Head, apply'd to it Emplastrum de Betonica, by order of M. Dufaur Professor of Surgery, and the Swelling disappear'd. III. 