A Letter from Mr. Tho. Wright to James Theobald, Esq; F. R. S. concerning Two ancient Camps in Hampshire. LAST Summer, during my Stay in the West of England, common Report, and my own natural Curiosity, led me to a Place in Hampshire called Buckland Castle, or, more vulgarly, the Rings; where I found two neighbouring M m 2 Camps Read Feb. 7. 1744 5. [274] Camps about three Furlongs asunder: The one very strong, with double Ditches, and triple Vallums, upon the Top of an Hill, three Ways guarded by a natural Ascent; the other upon a lower Ground, close by a River (which defends it on one Side), with a Ditch and Vallum half round, and a kind of Morass on the other. The first contains about ten Acres; the latter about seven; and the Land lying betwixt them is, and has been time out of Mind, called Ambrose Farm: Besides an Arm of the River, or rather of the Sea (it being Salt-Water), running close up to the latter, is called Ambrose Dock. From all which it appears not improbable, that this may have been a principal Station belonging to Aurelius Ambrosius. The inclos'd is a true Representation both of their Form and Situation (see TAB. II. Fig. 2, 3.): The large one is about a Mile from Limington; and, cross the River opposite to the Town, and facing the South-east Angle of it, is an artificial Hill, known by the Name of Windmill Nap; which I take to have been a Beacon, by reason it commands almost all the Isle of Wight, the full Passage of the Needles, and great Part of the there level Champagne, besides the Camp itself. Camden (tho' he takes no Notice of these Camps, yet mentions one of much less Consequence, about twelve Miles Distance, called Castle-Malwood) says, `` It is most certain, that, about the Year 508, Au`` relius Ambrosius had here many Conflicts with the `` Saxons, with various Success.'' But, again, the People of this Country have a Tradition, That, three Miles to the West of this Camp, a famous Battle 3 was [275] was fought betwixt the Saxons and the Danes; in which so much Blood was spilt, that a little River is said to have run Blood, now called from thence Danes Stream. Your Friend, and Oxenden-Street, Jan. 12. 1744. Humble Servant, Tho. Wright. 212 yd. 12 12 8 25 9 E Ambrose Farm. Fig. 1. p. 204. Fig. 3. p. 274. 20 yd. 180 yd. 140 yd. 130 yd. 200 yd. ~ Well. Limington River. AmbroseDock 