XV. Experiments made zvitb the Yiew of decompounding FzzeG Air, or Carbonic Acid. By George Pearsorl M. D. F. R. Se + Read May 24, I792. FROM a Paper read to the Philosophical SocietyoftEdinburgh, in z7tSS publishedin the second volllme of the Physical and Literary Essays, Doctor 13LACK appears to have discourered the affltlities between an aeriform substance, w}ich he called fixectt air, and alkalies} quick-limee alld magnesia His experimentsr also shewed, that many propertiesof these bodies deperlded uporl the union and separation of this airX The discovery of these facts established this elastic flwid to be a peculiar species of substance. M. CAVENDISH, lDr. BRONVNSIGG, Dr. PRIESTLEY, Sir TORBERN BERGMAN, ME. 13EWLEY, Mr. KIRWAN, alld; other cllemists, afterwards extended-, very considWerably, the history of fised air. The question, vvhether it was a sitnple or compound body, was discussedl; and by many persons it utas believed to harrebeen proved, tllat fixecl air wa-s composed o£phlogiston and-respirable air. But some o£ the principal facts, upon which thisS belief utas founded being afterwards demonstrated to be erroneous ; and tle production of fixed4 air beitlg, to the apprehension o£ many chemists, more satisfactorily accounl:edn for by the }lew priilciples of chernistry, this doctrine of its composition lJecZame llo longer tenable. As the science of chemistry ad+Dr. PEARSON<wS Exterimentsfor290oranced, many acids were demonstrably proved to CO1]SiSt of a peculiar basis, ali:tl respirable air ; and on tlle ground of analogy it was concluded, that all other acids utere colzpos-ed in a si-milar manner. Fixed air having been shewn, by Mr.-BEwLEY, and by BERGMAN to be an acid, of collrse its cotupositiotl was considered, in the new system of chenaistry, to be slmilar to that -of a11 other acids.^ On examining facts already utell ascertained, and by various experiments di,scoverillg others, no clear inStanGe could be perceived of thebformatioH of fixed air, but in those cases wl1ere charcoal was applied red hot to respirable air. Mr. LAVOISIER at last established this interesting fact, by a conclusive -experiment, published ill a rolume of the Memoirs ofthe Academy -of Sciencesin 178l, and in his 'rraite Elementaire in 1789, by vw7hich he demonstrated that charcoal of wood except a tninute portion of residue? as might reasonably be expected, cuoinbitwed with respirable air, and composed fixed air only. This -is the date, tllerefore, of the discovery by synthesis, of the composition of fixed air ; or, as I would rather call it, s^iith Mr. LAVOISIER, carbotlic acid. The proof by analysis, however, xvas required, to render the denaonstration of the colnpositiorl of this elastic fluid complete. The honotlr of the first analytical experiments on carbollic atid is due to Mr. TENNANT, F. R. S. whOr in a paper read to this Society, in March, *791, and contained ill volume LXXXI. of the Philosophical Transactions, asserted, that charcoal and phosphoric acid were produced by applying phosphors to red laot marlJle; firom which he inferred, that the carbonic acid of the marble xvas decompounded. This decompositioll, the ingenious author conceives to he effected by the united powers of aflinity between phosphorus andtlle respirable air of ;the carbonic acid decompoundingJ£xed Air.291in the calcareous earth, and between the phosphoric acid, thus composed, and the quick-lilne of the calcareous earth. That the black matter produced is really charcoal, the author has proved by adequate experimellts. The-irlference, honever, does not appear to tne to be just, that tlle charcoal and phosphoric acid are the rnecessary result of tlle agency of the affinities, as stated by Mr. T}£NNANT. For the well known fact, tisat phosphorus cannot bze prodllced from bone-ashes by tlle application of charcoal atid heat, I thinkX Qnly proves that the powers of affinity between respirable air atld phosphorus, together with the affinity between tlae compourld formed by their union (narnely, phosphoric acid,) atld quick-lime, are not inferior to the joint afiinities betvjleen the respirable air, in the phosphoric acid, andX charcoal, and betweell the cotnpound of respirable air and charcoal (namely, carbonic acid) at-ld quick-litne. Hence, from tlle principle referred to, it could not be collcluded, that carbollic acid, combined vvtith quick-lime, would be decompounded by phosphorus attracting its respirable air, and the phosphoric acid, thus formed, attractirlg tlle quick-lime. Experience only coulul determine the result of these affillities, but no proof has been given, from the examination of the mixture, after applyiIlg phospllorus to red hot marble; such as finding that carbonic acid uras really decompounded, because there was a deficiency of this elastic Huid, and that the charcoal and phosphoric acid corresponded to this deficiency. Accordillgly some chemists have conjectured that the small quantity of charcoal afforded in this exl3eritnent pre-existe(l in the phosphorus, > hichn it is well known, is distilled frotn charcoal ; and others have suspected that it might have arisen from accidental impurities. As experience, also, has taught us that phosphorated mineral Dr. PEARSON'S Experimentsfioralkal; will not yield phosphorus by exposure to charcoal and heat, unless plumbum corneum be added, ^ve carlnot infer that the carbollic atid inmild mineral alliali will be decompounded -by phosphorus ; because, as in the case of bone-ashes and pl1OSphorus, the jOillt affinities between respirable air and phospllorus, and between pllosphoric acid and milaeral alkali9 are, by this fact, ShOF?Il to be not inferior to the corl joilled affirlities betsveen charcoal and respirable air, and betuJeen carbonic acid and that alkali. No other conciusion can be drawn with respect to the affinities exerted when charcoal is applied to phosphorated vegetable alkali; because the affinity is stronger between the ph(3sphoric acid and vegetable alkali, tllan between the same acid and mineral alliali. zAs the attractive forces between phosphoric acid and barytes, and between that acicl end magnesia are, very probably, at least equal to those between phosphoric acid and fixed alkalies3 the question, whether carbonic acid tInited to these earths can be decomposed by phosphorus remains to be determined by experiments. 13ut with respect to the volatile alkali, we know+, by the experience of making phosphorus from urine, that the united aflinities betwreell respirable air and phosphorus, and betsreen phosphoric acid and volatile alkali, are inferior to the joint affinities between charcoal and respirable air, atld carbonic acid and volatile alkali; Ilence3 in a due degree of heat3 phosphorus alld milul volatile alkali are formed from phosphorated volatile-alkali and charcoal, consequently carbollic acid combined with volatile alkali, cannot be cleconlpounded by phosphorus and heat, even if the volatility of tllat alkali did not, aplearently, render it impossible to apply the requisite degree of heat We know so little of the degree of chemical attreactioll betsvixt clay decwounding fixed -Air.293and phosphoric acid, that tlle questioIl, whether carbonic acld united to clay will be decompounded by phosphorus; can only be atlswered by future experinlents. As I presume that I halre made experiments which enable us to draw cotlclusions concelningthe above cases of compound attraction, and hich also shew, in several instances, that carbolaic acid is decompounded alld affords respirable airs and charcoal; I think it my duty, on a subject so very interestillg in the present state of chemistry, to subinit them to the consideration of this SocietyX . h Experiments witb PhoEhoras, applied to mildfossil Alkalz. I began with attempting to decompound carbonic acid ill unioll with fossil alkali, ill prefbrence to tTle same substance combined with quick-lime because the proportion of this elastic fluid is much greater in mild fossil alkali thall irl calcareous earth, because the affillity is not so strong between carbonic acid and fixed alkalies, as between carbollic acid and quick-limefi and because the mechanical steparation of charcoal from allialies and phosphorated alkalies may be more easily made than of charcoalSfrom calcareous earth and pllosphoric seletlite. The purest fUssil alkali I could procure svas employed fiom which I had expelled k of its weight of svater but none of its carbonic acid. Into a tllick wthite glass tube) almost, one inch wide three fEet alld a half in length coated within nine or ten inches of the ope^l end, were introduced tWQ hundred grains of transparent phosphorus, alld eight hundred grains of the above deaquawted alkali were pressed down uIrotl them. Tlle tube, thus MDCCXCII. Q q 2944 Dr. PEARSON'S Experi?tents JUr charged, was then bent so that the open end might be kept convenielltly plunged in quicksilver during the experiment. Thecoated part ofthe tubecontaining the alkaliexcepting tsvo or three inches next to the phosphoruss was gradually heated over a portable firnacJe till it was red hot, atld rather flexible, in w}lich state the part cotltaining the phosplaorus was gradually drawtlover the fire, and kept red hot twenty minutes. At the beginning of the experiment, quiclisilver rose several inches within the tube, and whell the coated part grew hot, phosphorus was sublimed intQ the upper and cool part of it: abollt twenty drops of water were condensed over the quicksilver; atld two ounce measures of plllogisticated air, with a little respirable air, hich had the smell of phosphorus, came over. The tubes when cold, being hroken, the lower part was found to contaitl a-loosely-cohering solid, as black as cllarcoal, svhich weighed 428 grains) and above this, a grey and hite substance, partly fUsed, and partly in a powdery form) which, with adhering glass, weighed ^58 grains. Neither in this, nor in other similar experiments was I able to collect the wllole contents of the tube, without glass which had been melted, that adhered to the alkali, ola ssthich account I could IlOt determine accurately the total weight, itldependently of glass; but I was sure from a number of trials that it was a little less than the original weeight of the alkali. rrhe phosphorus sublirned into the upper part of tlle tube, was moist from the adhering pllosphoric acid: it was inflamed by slight frictions viz. merely on breaking the tube. The 428 grains of black alkaline matter thus obtained, aS forded, by solution in boiling hot concentrated acetous acid, a ittle lmore thall 245 oullce measures of carbonic acid, under the mean pressure of the atmosphere, and of the temperature of decontpoundingJixed Sir.295g,; that is, too grains of the b}ack imatter yielded abollt six ounce measures of this elastic fluid. In other similar experiments, the quantity of carbonic acid varied fiom four to seven ounce measures in loo grains of this blackened alkali; except in one experitnetltn svhichiairded ollly three ounce rneasures of the acid, btlt the largest proportionvof charcoal I ever made, narne yn 12 gralilS The solution of the above 28 grais was filtered and the residue, which vs;as black, was lixiviated with boilirlg distilled water. This residue, when dried, weighed g2,4 grains; it 11ad no taste or smell, but svas all impalpably fine, intensely black and very light posvder; br it occupied a olae ounce-and-a-half measure) therefore, may be estimated to have beell about 22 titnes lighter than rater. A little of this black powder, being thrown upon a red hot iron plate igllited readily, but left a residue which vvas one-fourth of its weight: tlliS beillg agaill throwrl upon the red hot iron plate, it ignited, and there rolmained, on cooling, a very smali 130rtiotl of brosvnish powder which diminished to almobst nothing, by heing applied twice more to the iroll kept red hot for several minutes On sprillkling this black poutder UpOll bc3iling tlitre) it sparkled most brillialatly alld detollated, leaving a colourless mass el1tirely soluble in svater. rl'his black powderX mixed with ovvdered nitre deflagrated on exposure to heat in a retort +vith tlae air-apparatus affixed to it, afirding over quicksilver, carbonic acid. This black rnatter, also, reduced the calx of lead; baig mixed with tartar of vitriol, and heat being applied, bepar sulpburis was produced; atld with phc)sphoric acicl, phosphorus was obtained. Tllat, therefore, theseg2,4 grains were charcoal, cannotq I tllitlk, be doubted. I migllt _()q2 296Dr. PEARSON)S Experinzents foradd, that accidentally I found this powder, red hot, decolu posed water as charcoal does. Ithe above filtered liquid was evaporated to one pilat) and shewed signs of acidity: to it was added murlated lilue till-it produced no further precipitation. The dried plecipitate weighed go grains9 and was found tobe; phosl)horic acid combined vith lime, and the liquor, in whicIo this precipitation took place was ascertaitled to be muriated and acetated fossil alkali-, with a little redunclant acetous acid arld a small portion of phosphoric selenite. The grey and white alkaline matter, with bits of melted glass weighing tS8 grains as abovemelltioned by solution in con centrated acetous acid, afforded 41 ounce measures of carbonicacid and a residue upon the filter, which, svhen well dried, weighed afi4 grairls. This residuum consisted of rough, sharppointed, black and white particles; it was tnuch specifically heavier than the residue of the other part of the alkaline matter abovementioned to have been examined; it deflagrated a little on bein-gthrown upon boilillg nitre,but left above 45 of its weight of lnatter insoluble in water, and which I supposed ras vitri fied. The filtered liquor from these s8 grains of alkaline substance yielded to the precipitant muriated lime 21 grains of phosphoric selenite. To satisfy myself still further, that carbonic acid had been destroyed in this experiment, and to {*ortn sornae estitnate of the quantity-wllich had disappeared, I separated it, by concentrated acetous acid, from 400 graitas of mild alkali, taken -frotn the salm parcel as that was svhich aSorded cllarcoal, and I found the quantit;y to be lo4 ounce 1neasuresX or e6 ouxlce measures ill each loo $rains of lmild alkali. decompoundingfixed idl^re297To aSord a still more decisive proof that carbonic acid 31ad not been combitled, or escaped, in this experiment, btlt had been destroyed I exposed solne of the same parcel olD alkali which had aSorded charcoal to the same degree of heat, in tubes, utlder sinilar circunlstances to those ill the above experiInent ; and I Sotlnd that no carbonic acid, but a little water, came over into the airapparatus; that the total weight of the alkali svas ditniLlished, btlt that a gisren weight of it, aRer the experiment, afforded rather more carbonic acid, by solution in acetollbs acid, than an equal weight of the same parcel of alkali not thus subjected to heat. This diminutiOll of weight of alkalin and greater proportion of carbonic acid, I itupute to the water visibly separated itl the g]ass tubest and, perhaps, also absorbed in the earthen ones. Accident affiorded a still more decisive proof of the decomposition of carbonic acid. In the beginning of the experimellt, the tubes sometimes cracked about lour or five inches firom the part containing the phosphorus: on cooling, I found, in the part below the crack, black alkaline matter, which yielded much less carbonic acid than the same weight of alkali before the experilment ; svhereas the alkali above the crack was white, and contained the same quantity of this elastic fluid that it did before it was exposed to heat. In the experiment above particularly described, it appears that ill one part of the alkali tllere vas a deficiency of tsrenty ounce measures of carbonic acid per cent. of alkali; but a production -of rather more tharl eight grains obf claarcoal, and of as much phosphoric acid as formed about thirty grains of phosphoric selenite; the colnposition oftm,hich may be estimated to be, of phosphorus, five grains; respirable air,; ten $rains; arld quick-lime, fifteen grains. Nown as it laus been Dr. PE14RSON)S Experimentsfor298demonstrated by M. LAVOISIER, that charcoal, either totally, or a minute proportion excepteds combines with respirable air, alld forms carbonic acid; and other familiarly known, though less accurate) experiments, show that carhonic acid is formed whenever charcoal and respirable air aret applied to each other in a due degree of heat; and as there are no other sources perceivable of respirable air alld claarcoal in this experiment, it seerns to prove decisively that they are deriered from the carbo:tnlic acid hich is decotnpounded by the superior affirlities betvsreen pllosplao^us and respirable air, and phosphoric acid atld a11<ali to tll<ose between respirable air and charcoal, and carbonic acid alld alkali. An additional prioof of vlle reality of tlaRs decomposition is airded by the exatninatiorl of tle gS grains oof svhite atad grey alkalitle tnatter, of the satne experirtlentn which affo; ded much more carbc)llic acid and much less charcoal and phosphoric acid. I aln very ftllly aware that the proportions of respirahle air and charcoaln produced in this experitnent, do not (orrespond to the proportions of them we shoulel have expected, consistently with tlle synthetical experiments concerning carbonic acid; The variatiot is especially great with respect to respirable air) of svhicla there should have been eighteetl grains itlstead of five, to combirle with the svllole of the charcoal, but, from the nature of the experimentn ste cannot even approximate to tlle traltll uZith respect to the real quantity of respirable air produced; for the phosphorus nIhich subliined probably carried off a little of this air, some of the phosphoric acid thus formed fused along with alkali and glass, and some phosphoric selenite reznained dissolved in the liquid. Stlpposing the svhole of the charcoal formedin this experimeIlt to be urlited to resEzitable airn the qualltity of carbonic acicl cozxposed may be calculated to be LQ4, decornpoandingfixed Sir.299grains ; -for 32 grains of charcoal combined with 72 of respirable air compose lo4 grrains of carbonic acid, or yo Qunce IneasureS; to which rnust be added the 25 ounce measu-res of undecompourlded carbonic acid separated. Then the qua-ztity of this elasti-c fluid, calculated to be decompounded, and remaining united in about oo grains of mild fossil alkali, is 9qS ounce measures, atld the quantity of it actually found to exist in an equal weight of alkali, was about l 12 OUllCe measures: therefore the quantity of charcoal produced does not (liffier very CO11siderably f:rom that calculated to be contained in the carbonic acid decompourXded. But future experiments must determine wthetlaer there is a like coinciclence with respect to the other supposed constituent of carbollic acid, natnely, respirable air. I deeln it unnecessary to relate a nutnber of experinlents ^7hich I have made, the result of which vvtas similar to the preceding one, but it may be proper to lmention, that in every instance, the proportions of phosphoric acid and charcoal were inversely as the quantity of carbonic acid remai<ing in -the alkali; arld that the quantities of these tBro products diminished as the qualatity abovementioned of phosphorus was diminished; accordingly, tlle alkali rzzost exposed to the phosphorus contained the greatest proport:iolrl of charcoal. I lmade this experirnert several times with alkali, whoch contaiiled a good deal of water, and then I obtained a large quantity of air9 svhich smelt of phosphorus, but did not explode on contact vith atlnospheric air; it contained no carbonic acid, nor phlogisticated air, excepting a few ounsze nzeasures in tIle first jar that came over, but it explocled loudly V}zen mixed with an equal bulk of deplllogisticated air) on applying a Dr. PEARSON'S Experimenfts forSoolighted vjrax taper. A charge of 95 grains of phosphorus, and 54o grains of the above alkali, affbrded 206 ounce measures of this inflammable air, which vas of the satne quality whether it w-as received over water or quicksilver. This air, I appre hend, was produced by the decomposition of the water in the -alkali, in consequrnce o-f the superior affinity between phosphorus and respirable air, to the affinity betwixt respirable and inflalulmable air. lnllerefore svherl moist alkali is usecl, cat. par. more phosphoric acid vill be formed than when dry alkali is elnployed; and ill calculating the quantity of respirable air formed, regard naust be paid to the decoznpositio of water. It appears alseg that it requires less heat to decom; pound w-ater by phosphoruss than to distllaite carbonic acid firom fixed alkali. In tllese experiments I frequently used thick white glass tubes, atld applied heat for a long time, to the degree of rerldering theln flexible: when cold,I found the internal surface in contact with the black alkaline lmatter full of cells, or small cavities, and roughn to which sluall grains of lead adhered, C011sequently the respirable air of the calx of this metal in the glass had been attractedn and reductioll eiected This reductiorl might be produced by three substallces here present, rlarn:ely, phosphorus irlflamluable air, and charcoal; btlt I im>pute it to the charcoal; lst. because I obtained no particles s3f lead by passing phosphorus tilrougll a tubKe filled with powdered vllite glass, heated to the degree of rendering the tube soft, although on cooling, I found the internal surface of the tube was turlled black, which colour could not be removed by rubbing, or by acids. This appearance I cannot explain. gdly. This reduction is esSected wherl there is rlo decompomnGngfixed Air.01->>ater present, at least when no itlflamlnable air is extricated. Sdly. The greatest quantity of regulus of lead svas obtained in those parts of the alkaline matter which cotltained the smallest quantity of charcoal, and therefore, I collceive, the charcoal, fcormed in those parts, had united to the air of the calx after the phospllorus had been drivell through t}:e alkali, so that tlle carbolaic acid thus composed could not be decompounded, but was combined with tlle alkali which was always redundant. In calculating the proporticon of carbonic acid clecomposed it %7ill be necessary to consider the reduction which here takes place. If the air-apparatus be not affixed to the tube, containing a charge of phosphorus and alkali, charcoa1 atad respirable air will be forllied ; but the phosphorus will take fire at the open ez:zd of the tube, and burn with splendour) as in dephlogisticated air. Porcelain, or well glazed WEDGVVOOD tubes, arlswrer in these experitnents better than glass ones, the insitlesof wh-ch are apt to tnelt; but unglaz-ed vessels allow the phosphoru$ to pass through their pores, though part of the carbonic atid may be decompoutlded. T!ze heat applied must be greater than the wlsite glass now lnade catz endure withoutmelting; fore I passed pElosphorus tlarough a tube containing mild fossil alkali, heatetl so that it appeared red hot in the dark, atld no charcoal was formeds though-tlle inside of the tube was blackened.R rMDCCXC I I * Dr. PEARSON}S Experiments for802Experiglents witb Pbostborus applied to mild vegetable X#lkali calcareous harth, Barytes, Magne.sia Albvv and (:]lay Sitnilar experiments tothe preceling, rrlade wit'n mild al kali of tartar itl place of fossil alkali affordedX apparentlvJ as much charcoal, and whicll was easily obtained, but as the pilnorllena were similar, arld as I have no-t ascertained with any tolerable precision the proportion of the carbonic acid decoznpounded, and of the products, it is unnecessary to give any furtIzer account of them. By the lilie experiments, I endeavoured to decompourld the carbonic acid/ itl calcareous, barytlc, magnesiala, and argillaceous earthsX The lnatter relzlaillillg in the ttubes, after exposure to heat, was blackish and grey, seemingly from charcoal being forlued, tllough in tnuch smaller quantity than iLl the preceding experitnents witll fixed alkalies. For the reasons above given, I omit the particulars of these experiments on earths. It appears to tne, that the above experiments justifbr the inference that the joint affinities between respirable air and phosphorus and betweeal phosphoric acid and mineral alkali, are superior to the affiX<ity between the whole, or at least part, of the respirable air of carlsollic acid and charcoal, cooperatitlg with the ffinity betwteen that acid ancl tlae same alkali. And, althouglS I have not ascertained the facts with equal satisfacti-on, the experiments already made seem to vV7arrant the conclusion, that the order of the affinities is such, that carbonic acid ullited to vegetable alkali, lime, barytes, magmesia, atad clay9 will be decoluposed by phospllorus in a due de;ree of heat. With respect to carbonic acid combined with decompoundingfixed Air.sosvolatile alkali, as migilt be expected, I could not decompose it, although I transmitted boiling hot phosphorus through a very long ttlbe, containing mild volatile alkali. Experiments witb Pbostborus applied to Quick-lime and cctustic fixed SIkalies. t . I need not explain that these experiments must confirm or invalidate the conclusiorl above drawn, that carbonic acid was decomposed by phosphorus applied to mild alkalies, and earth$ which contain this elastic fluid. As the quick-lime which can be procured in London must contain ltoth water and carbollic acid, I exposed a quantity of this earth 48 hours to thef fire of a rerrerberatory furllace, by which it was contracted to half its former bulk, and was diminished in its weight; it was, howeverX still soluble in acids, and afforded no carbonic acid. In the manner above described, I exposed 240 grains of it with 60 grains of phosphorus} to heat in a coated glass tube. On breaking the tube, xlvhen colds I found at the bottom about So grains of blackish alld white powder; and above that, to the extent of four or five inches, was a rose-coloured powder, which by its contact with air soon became of a reddish bro+^tn colour; above this was the quick-lime, scarcely altered in its colour, but it had, like the rest of the powder in the tube, an alliaceous smell. On tast ing a little of this reddish posvder, I was surprised by its exploding upon my tong;lle. I thresv a few grains of it into several ounces of cold water, it did not seemingly dissolve, or turn black, but in a few minutes emitted air-bubbles which rose to the surface of the water, arld then burst and exploded, Rr 2 vDr EARSONJS Experzœ2ents forSPoprodtlcing a nhite circular cloud, srhich ill ascending expandUct graduallyg till it burst in the airX It continued to enlit these bulabIes fre3Su tilne to tine during; an hourn and therl left a grey sediment, which was pilOSphOl'iC selenite and limen and the wa ter tasted strongly of lime. lnhe satne povvJder, ill hot water, ex ploded more rapidlyand loudly thatl irl coldn but 1lot so violently as the phosphoric air obtailled by boiling phosphorus in a lixi-ViUNl of caustic fixel alkali. By putti-ng this posvder ilatoala irverted jar of watern I collected a qualatity of the air vvhich it producexl X it had the properties of tlle phosphoric air already tnerztion-ed, and, amongst others by starlding over utater a day or two it becalme no Ionger spontaneously iaflalnamable but appeared to have deposited phosphorus UpOIl the water and sides of the vessel, and explc)ded upon applying toita lighted wax taper This povder tllerefore, I apprchendn consists of phosphorus and lime uruited by heat; it readily deconlposes cold svater, and then tlae inflammable air disengaged unites wYith,-or rather susperlds a portion of phOSpOI'USa and forms phosphoric air. The phos phorus thus suspendedi by stalading is deposited, and inflaml:nable air a]!oae remains ) the other constituent of water respirable air, uait-es to anotber portion of pllosphorus, alld composes phosphoric acid, svhich combilles with lime, alld forms phosphoric Selet'lite2 This compound of lime and phosphoruS which some . . . . of lny chemical friencls have -calledffiulsainati7 bepar of phosthoru3, xnay be u*sed to obtaill phosphoric air with mu more ease Lhan by the usual method. j Intlze new system of chemistry it will becAlled phoEhvr of Sme. + iDr. I N G B N H OUSX has devxsed some sury-ising and beautiful experiments with th;s svlbstancev decompounding,fiwed Air. SoS This experiment seems decisivev that the charcoal aff2orded n tlae fortner ones was derived from uarbonic acld. My next experiment was with caustic alkali and phosphorus The caus;c vegetable allXali I ejnployed vlas blackisln, partly fronz a very sma5-l quantity of calx of irorl atad partly, I think, from other causes urhich I do not uladerstand; and I was zot able to prepale myself, or obtain from others, fixed caustlc alkali ill a solid fortn which was colourless It also {alurays contained a small quanti-ty of carbonic acid. I introduced into a gl-ass tube .S° grains vf phosphorus, and tSo of pulverized caustic vegetable alkaliv previously foulld to contain three ounce rlfeasures of carbotlic acid in eacll 100 grainsX This chalge was exposed to heat, as in tlle former experitnents.* On brealilag the tube? when colcl, the alkalilole matter was blacker than before: a little of it thrown into llot vzater emitted bubbles of phosphoric air, but not in cold water: in rubbing oF this alkali from the sides of the tube solue pieces of it took fire. I dissolved as much as I could of this black alkaline matter, by pouring boiling water UpOI] it on a filter: a greenish lisivium passed through first, then a less coloured alkaline liquor; and last of all, limpid vYater. A residue left upon the filter being dried, weighed ten grains; it was a blackish brown, impalpable powder, at least five tirnes specifically heavier than the cllarcoal obtained in the preceding esperiments. (a) Six grains of this residue upon a thin plate of iron, heated over a candleg burnt wfith a green and blue flames emitting a somewhat arsenical odour, and it did not remair ignited after the flame ceased. A coal-like luatter was-left? which weighed three grainsO go6Dr. PEARSONWS Experimerlts for(b) Tllese three grains (a) being placed UpOll an iron plate red hot, again emitted a little green alid blue flame, with the like, but a weaker smell than before; the substance remainilig continued ignitecl but a few seconds of time, thougll the iron 97as red hot tnuch longer. The residuum, which was black, weighed two grains and a half. (c) tI'he residuum (b) was exposed in a silver spoon red hot; lit soon ignited, and sparkled ; but though this heat was appliect six miniltes on cooling, a blackish lnatter-remailaed, whicl: weighed 1 , Xgrains. td) The ,g grains of residue (c), under the flame applied with the blow-pipe, gave some indications of fusion, yet st remained black : but (e) Beillg throwrn into boiling nitre, a slight detonation ensued; this salt was not coloured by it, and it was dissolved in water leaving scarcely a visible quantity of matter upon the filterX I thi-nk I ulay safely conclude that but a small part of these ten grains of residue was charcoal: and as the proportion is so much smaller than has been showll to be affiorded by an equal weight of alkali saturated utith carbonic acid, this experiment confirms the conclusion, that the charcoal produced in the -preceding experiments is frol:n tile decomposition of that elastic fluid. 'he small qualltity of charcoal in the above ten grains of residuum was, per}zaps, intimately mixed with phosphorus and alkali; but more experiments are required to determine satisfactorily the nature of tllis compound. To corroborate the inference concerning the source of the charcoal above described, I add, that not a grain of it was produced by applying phosphol us to vegetable alkali and fossil alkali saturated witll vitriolic and marine acid decompoundingfixed Air.7The reselnblance betsvixt phospllorus and stllphur, induced me to consider whether carbonic acid, corrlbined with alkalie$ \ alad ear-ths, might not be decompounded by sulpllur. Experience, honvever, did not favoulr the suppositiora of a decomposition in these instances; for it is well kllown that llepar tnay be formed by applying charcoal to tartar of vitrioly GLAUBERES salt, sitliolic selenite, and ponderous Spal : and therefore tlaat the affitlity betsveen charcoal and respirable air is superior to the joint affinities between resptrable air alld sulphur, and betweerl vitriQlic acid and fixed alkalies, lixne, and barytes; consequently, if sLllpilur be applied to carbonic acid, united to these alkalies and earths, the affinity between sulphur and respirable air canllot disengage charcoal from the carbonic acid in mild alkalies and absorbent earths. This conclusion wouldt however, only be just, provided no other agents interfered; and as we catlnot be absolutely certain that they could not, I repeated the above experiments with sulphur instead of phosphorus; by which I produced a blackish powd-er, that had the properties of reducing calx of lead, and thanging vitriolic salts into hepars: but as it did 1lot burn on red hot iron, and deflagrate with llitres I catlnot pronounce it to be charcoal thinking it most prudent to reserve this matter for future examination Leicester-Square, Septeatlber 20, I79Za P. S. In consequence of some observatidns published in the Annales de Chiyniev Juin, 17927 Tonze XIII. by Mr. FOURCROYY it is thought proper to addj that although the above paper vvas alot read till May last, it was presented to the Society in March so8 Dr. PArsos's-Eeerintents, &c. preceding; alld the experiln-ents were made during the authoras autumnal course of lectures in 179z In these experimerlts ke BraS ASS;StED bY Mr. SEGGINTON, of Queen's Collegey Catub-ridge, who attended that course. The products were sho^7n, and the experiments mentiorled to several Members of the Royal Society the beginning of last winter) particularly to the Presidentn who honoured the author with his attelld ance during several of theprocesse-s. The substance produced by Mw RAYMOND, referred to in TI1e Armales (1e Chimien is a humid combination of phosphorus and llm:e, and does not decompound cold water 5 it is tlaerefore a very diffierexlt composition fkom the phosptur QS lirzze described in the above paperQ 