[ 41 1 III. Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Ninth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian Prof. Chemn. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Sic. 8-c. Received December 18, 1834,-Read January 29, 1835. ?. 15. On the influence by induction of an Electric Current on itself:-and on the inductive action of Electric Currents generally. 1048. TIE following investigations relate to a very remarkable inductive action of electric currents, or of the different parts of the same current, and indicate an immediate connexion between such inductive action and the direct transmission of electricity through conducting bodies, or even that exhibited in the form of a spark. 1049. The inquiry arose out of a fact communicated to me by Mr. JENKIN, which is as follows. If an ordinary wire of short length be used as the medium of communication between the two plates of an electromotor consisting of a single pair of metals, no management will enable the experimenter to obtain an electric shock from this wire; but if the wire which surrounds an electro-magnet be used, a shock is felt each time the contact with the electromotor is broken, provided the ends of the wire be grasped one in each hand. 1050. Another effect is observed at the same time, which has long been known to philosophers, namely, that a bright electric spark occurs at the place of disjunction. 1051. A brief account of these results, with some of a corresponding character which I had observed in using long wires, was published in the Philosophical Magazine for 1834*; and I added to them some observations on their nature. Further investigations led me to perceive the inaccuracy of my first notions, and ended in identifying these effects with the phenomena of induction which I had been fortunate enough to develop in the First Series of these Experimental Researchest. Notwithstanding this identity, the extension and the peculiarity of the views respecting electric currents which the results supply, lead me to believe that they will be found worthy of the attention of the Royal Society. 1052. The electromotor used consisted of a cylinder of zinc introduced between the two parts of a double cylinder of copper, and preserved from metallic contact in the usual way by corks. The zinc cylinder was eight inches high and four inches in diameter. Both it and the copper cylinder were supplied with stiff wires, surmounted by cups containing mercury; and it was at these cups that the contacts of wires, he.* Vol. v. p. 349. t Philosophical Transactions, 1832, p. 126.MDCCCXXXV. G 42 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. lices, or electro-magnets, used to complete the circuit, were made or broken. These cups I will call G and E throughout the rest of this paper (1079.). 1053. Certain helices were constructed, some of which it will be necessary to describe. A pasteboard tube had four copper wires, one twenty-fourth of an inch in thickness, wound round it, each forming a helix in the same direction from end to end: the convolutions of each wire were separated by string, and the superposed helices prevented from touching by intervening calico. The lengths of the wires forming the helices were 48, 49'5, 48, and 45 feet. The first and third wires were united together so as to form one consistent helix of 96 feet in length; and the second and fourth wires were similarly united to form a second helix, closely interwoven with the first, and 94-5 feet in length. These helices may be distinguished by the numbers i and ii. They were carefully examined by a powerful current of electr icity and a galvanometer, and found to have no communication with each other. 1054. Another helix was constructed upon a similar pasteboard tube, two lengths of the same copper wire being used, each forty-six feet long. These were united into one consistent helix of ninety-two feet, which therefore was nearly equal in value to either of the former helices, but was not in close inductive association with them. It may be distinguished by the number iii. 1055. A fourth helix was constructed of very thick copper wire, being one fifth of an inch in diameter; the length of wire used was seventy-nine feet, independently of the straight terminal portions. 1056. The principal electro-magnet employed consisted of a cylindrical bar of soft iron twenty-five inches long, and one inch and three quarters in diameter, bent into a ring, so that the ends nearly touched, and surrounded by three coils of thick copper wire, the similar ends of which were fastened together; then each of these terminations was soldered to a copper rod, serving as a conducting continuation of the wire. Hence any electric current sent through the rods was divided in the helices surrounding the ring, into three parts, all of which, however, moved in the same direction. The three wires may therefore be considered as representing one wire, of thrice the thickness of the wire really used. 1057. Other electromagnets could be made at pleasure by introducing a soft iron rod into any of the helices described (1053. &c.). 1058. The galvanometer which I had occasion to use was rough in its construction, having but one magnetic needle, and not at all delicate in its indications. 1059. The effects to be considered depend on the conductor employed to complete the communication between the zinc and copper plates of the electromotor;and I shall have to consider this conductor under four different forms: as the helix of an electromagnet (1056.); as an ordinary helix (1053. &c.); as a 10wg extended wirec having its course such that the pairts can exert no mutual influence and as a short wire. In all cases the conductor was of copper. 1060. The effects are best shown by the electro-magnet (1056.). When it was INDUCTIVE ACTION OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT ON ITSELF. 43 used to complete the communication at the electromotor, there was no sensible spark on making contact, but on breaking contact there was a very large and bright spark, with considerable combustion of the mercury. Then, again, with respect to the shock: if the hands were moistened in salt and water, and good contact between them and the wires retained, no shock could be felt upon making contact at the electromotor, but a powerful one on breaking contact. 1061. When the helix i or iii (1053. &c.) was used as the connecting conductor, there was also a good spark on breaking contact, but none (sensibly) on making contact. On trying to obtain the shock from these helices, I could not succeed at first. By joining the similar ends of i and ii so as to make the two helices equivalent to one helix, having wire of double thickness, I could just obtain the sensation. Using the helix of thick wire (1055.) the shock was distinctly obtained. On placing the tongue between two plates of silver connected by wires with the parts which the hands had heretofore touched (1064.), there was a powerful shock on breaking contact, but none on mak~ing contact. 1062. The power of producing these phenomena exists therefore in the simple helix, as in the electro-magnet, although by no means in the same high degree. 1063. On putting a bar of soft iron into the helix, it became an electromagnet (1057.), and its power was instantly and greatly raised. On putting a bar of copper into the helix, no change was produced, the action being that of the helix alone. The two helices i and ii, made into one helix of twofold length of wire, produced a greater effect than either i or ii alone. 1064. On descending from the helix to the mere long wire, the following effects were obtained. A copper wire, 0 18 of an inch in diameter, and 132 feet in length, was laid out upon the floor of the laboratory, and used as the connecting conductor (1059.); it gave no sensible spark on making contact, but produced a bright one on breaking contact, yet not so bright as that from the helix (1061.). On endeavouring to obtain the electric shock at the moment contact was broken, I could not succeed so as to make it pass through the hands; but by using two silver plates fastened by small wires to the extremity of the principal wire used, and introducing the tongue between those plates, I succeeded in obtaining powerful shocks upon the parts of the mouth, and could easily convulse a flounder, an eel, or a frog. None of these effects could be obtained directly from the electromotor, i. e. when the tongue, frog, or fish was in a similar, and therefore comparative manner, interposed in the course of the communication between the zinc and copper plates, separated everywhere else by the acid used to excite the combination. The bright spark and the shock, produced only on breaking contact, are therefore effects of the same kind as those produced in a higher degree by the helix, and in a still higher degree by the electromagnet. 1065. In order to compare an extended wire with a helix, the helix i, containing ninety-six feet and ninety-six feet of the same-sized wire lying on the floor of the laboratory, were used alternately as conductors: the former gave a much brighter 44 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. spark at the moment of disjunction than the latter. Again, twenty-eight feet of copper wire were made up into a helix, and being used gave a good spark on disjunction with the electromotor; being then suddenly pulled out and again employed, it gave a much smaller spark than before, although nothing but its spiral arrangement had been changed. 1066. As the superiority of a helix over a wire is important to the philosophy of the effect, I took particular pains to ascertain the fact with certainty. A wire of copper sixty-seven feet long was bent in the middle so as to form a double termination which could be communicated with the electromotor; one of the halves of this wire was made into a helix and the other remained in its extended condition. When these were used alternately as the connecting wire, the helix gave by much the strongest spark. It even gave a stronger spark than when it and the extended wire were used conjointly as a double conductor. 1067. When a short 'wire is used, all these effects disappear. If it be only two or+ three inches long, a spark can scarcely be perceived on breaking the junction. If it be ten or twelve inches long and moderately thick, a small spark may be more easily obtained. As the length is increased, the spark becomes proportionately brighter, until from extreme length the resistance offered by the metal as a conductor begins to interfere with the principal result. 1068. The effect of elongation was well shown thus: 114 feet of copper wire, one eighteenth of an inch in diameter, were extended on the floor and used as a conductor; it remained cold, but gave a bright spark on breaking contact. Being crossed so that the two terminations were in contact near the extremities, it was again used as a conductor, only twelve inches now being included in the circuit: the wire became very hot from the greater quantity of electricity passing through it, and yet the spark on breaking contact was scarcely visible. The experiment was repeated with a wire one ninth of an inch in diameter and thirty-six feet long with the same results. 1069. That the effects, and also the action, in all these forms of the experiment are identical; is evident from the manner in which the former can be gradually raised from that produced by the shortest wire to that of the most powerful electro-magnet: and this capability of examining what will happen by the most powerful apparatus, and then experimenting for the same results, or reasoning from them, with the weaker ar>rangemnents, is of great advantage in making out the true principles of the phenomena. 1070. The action is evidently dependent upon the wire which serves as a conductor; for it varies as that wire varies in its length or arrangement. The shortest wire may be considered as exhibiting the full effect of spark or shock which the electromotor can produce by its own direct power; all the additional force which the arrangements described can excite being due to some affection of the current, either permanent or momentary, in the wire itself. That it is a momentary effect, produced only at the instant of breaking contact, will be fully proved (1089. 1 100.). 1071. No change takes place in the quantity or intensity of the current during the THE CONSTANT CURRENT UNCHANGED IN ITS CHARACTERS. 45 time the latter is continued, from the moment after contact is made up to that previous to disunion, except what depends upon the increased obstruction offered to the passage of the electricity by a long wire as compared to a short wire. To ascertain this point with regard to quantity, the helix i (1053.) and the galvanometer (1058.) were both made parts of the metallic circuit used to connect the plates of a small electromotor, and the deflection at the galvanometer was observed; then a soft iron core was put into the helix, and as soon as the momentary effect was over, and the needle had become stationary, it was again observed, and found to stand exactly at the same division as before. Thus the quantity passing through the wire when the current was continued was the same either with or without the soft iron, although the peculiar effects occurring at the moment of disjunction were, very different in degree under such variation of circumstances. 1072. That the quality of intensity belonging to the constant current did not vary with the circumstances favouring the peculiar results under consideration, so as to yield an explanation of those results, was ascertained in the following manner. The current excited by an electromotor was passed through short wires, and its intensity tried by subjecting different substances to its electrolyzing power (912. 966. &c.) ) it was then passed through the wires of the powerful electro-magnet (1056.), and again examined with respect to its intensity by the same means and found unchanged. Again, the constancy of the quantity passed in the above experiment (1071.) adds further proof that the intensity could not have varied; for had it been increased upon the introduction of the soft iron, there is every reason to believe that the quantity passed in a given time would also have increased. 1073. The fact is, that under many variations of the experiments, the permanent current loses in force as the effects upon breaking contact become exalted. This is abundantly evident in the comparative experiments with long and short wires (1068); and is still more strikingly shown by the following variation. Solder an inch or two in lengthl of fine platina wire (about one hundredth of an inch in diameter) on to one end of the long communicating wire, and also a similar length of the same platina wire on to one end of the short communication; then, in comparing the effects of these two communications, make and break contact between the platina terminations and the mercury of the cup G or E (1079.). When tie short wire is used, the platina will be ignited by the constant current, because of the quantity of electricity, but the spark on breaking contact will be hardly visible ; on using the longer communicating wire, which by obstructing will diminish the current, the platina will remain cold whilst the current passes, but give a bright spark at the moment it ceases: thus the strange result is obtained of a diminished spark and shock from the strong current, and increased effects from the weak one. 1Hence the spark and shock at the moment of disjunction, although resultinog from great intensity and quantity of the current at that moment, are no direct indicators or measurers of the intensity or quantity of the constant current previously passing, and by which they are ultimately produced. 46 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. 1074. It is highly important in using the spark as an indication, by its relative brightness, of these effects, to bear in mind certain circumstances connected with its production and appearance. An ordinary electric spark is understood to be the bright appearance of electricity passing suddenly through an interval of air, or other badly conducting matter. A voltaic spark is sometimes of the same nature, but, generally, is due to the ignition and even combustion of a minute portion of a good conductor; and that is especially the case when the electromotor consists of but one or few pairs of plates. This can be very well observed if either or both of the metallic surfaces intended to touch be solid and pointed. The moment they come in contact the current passes; it heats, ignites, and even burns the touching points, and the appearance is as if the spark passed on making contact, whereas it is only a case of ignition by the current, contact being previously made, and is perfectly analogous to the ignition of a fine platina wire connecting the extremities of a voltaic battery. 1075. When mercury constitutes one or both of the surfaces used, the brightness of the spark is greatly increased. But as this effect is due to the action on, and probable combustion of, the metal, such sparks must only be compared with other sparks also taken from mercurial surfaces, and not with such as may be taken, for instance, between surfaces of platina or gold, for then the appearances are far less bright, though the same quantity of electricity be passed. It is not at all unlikely that the commonly occurring circumstance of combustion may affect even the duration of the light; and that sparks taken between mercury, copper, or other combustible bodies, will continue for a period sensibly longer than those passing between platina or gold. 1076. When the end of a short clean copper wire, attached to one plate of an electromotor, is brought down carefully upon a surface of mercury connected with the other plate, a spark, almost continuous, can be obtained. This I refer to a succession of effects of the following nature: first contact,-then ignition of the touching points,-recession of the mercury from the mechanical results of the heat produced at the place of contact, and the electromagnetic condition of the parts at the moment*, -breaking of the contact and the production of the peculiar intense effect dependent thereon,-renewal of the contact by the returning surface of the undulating mercury, -and then a repetition of the same series of effects, and that with such rapidity as to present the appearance of a continued discharge. If a long wire or an electro-magnet be used as the connecting conductor instead of a short wire, a similar appearance may be produced by tapping the vessel containing the mercury and making it vibrate; but the sparks do not usually follow each other so rapidly as to produce an apparently continuous spark, because of the time required when the long wire or electro-nagnet is used both for the full development of the current (1101. 1106.) and for its complete cessation. 1077. Returning to the phenomena in question, the first thought that arises in the mind is, that the electricity circulates with something like momentum or inertia in* Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. xii. p. 420. INDUCTIVE ACTION OF A CURRENT UPON ITSELF. 47 the wire, and that thus a long wire produces effects at the instant the current is stopped, which a short wire cannot produce. Such an explanation is, however, at once set aside by the fact, that the same length of wire produces the effects in very different degrees, according as it is simply extended, or made into a helix, or forms the circuit of an electromagnet (1069.). The experiments to be adduced (1089.) will still more strikingly show that the idea of momentum cannot apply. 1078. The bright spark at the electromotor, and the shock in the arms, appeared evidently to be due to one current in the long wire, divided into two parts by the double channel afforded through the body and through the electromiotor; for that the spark was evolved at the place of disjunction with the electromotor, not by any direct action of the latter, but by a force immediately exerted in the wire of comnunication, seemed to be without doubt (1070.). It followed, therefore, that by using a better conductor in place of the human body, the whole of this extra current might be made to pass at that place; and thus be separated from that which the electromotor could produce by its immediate action, and its direction be examined apart u'o-n any interference of the original and originating current. This was found to be true;f for on connecting the ends of the principal wire together by a cross wire two or three feet in length, applied just where the hands had felt the shock, the whole of the extra current passed by the new channel, and then no better spark than one producible by a short wire was obtained on disjunction at the electromotor. 1079. The current thus separated was examined by galvanometers and deconiposing apparatus introduced into the course of this wire. I will always speak of it as the current in the cross wire or wires, so that no mistake, as to its place or origin, may occur. In the wood-cut, Z and C represent the zinc and copper plates of the electromotor; G and E the cups of mercury c ) where contact is made or broken (1052.); A and B the terminaA tions of D the long wire, the helix, or the electro-magnet, used to r complete the circuit; N and P are the cross wires) which can either be brought into contact at x, or else bave a galvanometer (1058.) or an electrolyzing apparatus (312. 316.) interposed there. The production of the shock from the current in the cross wire, .I whether D was a long extended wire, or a helix, or an electro-magnet, has been already described (1064. 1061. 1060.). 1080. The spark of the cross-wire current could be produced at a in the following manner: D was made an electromagnet; the metallic extremities at x were held close together, or rubbed lightly against each other, whilst contact was broken at G or E. When the communication was perfect at x, little or no spark appeared at G or E. When the condition of vicinity at x was favourable for the result required, a bright spark would pass there at the moment of disjunction, none occurring at G and E: this spark was the luminous passage of the extra current through the crosswires. When there was no contact or passage of current at x, then the spark ap48 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. peared at G or E, the extra current forcing its way through the electromotor itself. The same results were obtained by the use of the helix or the extended wire at D in place of the electro-nagnet. 1081. On introducing a fine platina wire at r, and employing the electro-magnet at D, no visible effects occurred as long as contact was continued; but on breaking contact at G or E, the fine wire was instantly ignited and fused. A longer or thicker wire could be so adjusted at x as to show ignition, without fusion, every time the contact was broken at G or E. 1082. It is rather difficult to obtain this effect with helices or wires, and for very simple reasons: with the helices i, ii, oriii, there was such retardation of the electric current, firom the length of wire used, that a full inch of platina wire one fiftieth of an inch in diameter could be retained ignited at the cross wires during the continuance of contact, by the portion of electricity passing through it. Hence it was impossible to distinguish the particular effects at the moments of making or breaking contact from this constant effect. 1083. On using the thick wire helix (1055.), the same results ensued. Proceeding, lhowever, upon the known fact that electric currents of great quantity but low intensity, though able to ignite thick wires,> cannot produce that effect upon thin ones, I used a very fine platina wire at x, reducing its diameter until a spark appeared at G or E,) when contact was broken there. A quarter of an inch of such wire might be introduced at x without being ignited by the continuance of contact at G or E; but when contact was broken at either place, this wire became red hot;proving, by this method, the production of the induced current at that moment. 1084. Chemical decomposition was next effected by the cross-wire current, an electro-magnet being used at D, and a decomposing apparatus, with solution of iodide of potassium in paper (1079.), employed at a. The conducting power of the connecting system A B D was sufficient to carry all the primary current, and consequently no chemical action took place at x during the continuance of contact at G and E ; but when contact was broken, there was instantly decomposition at x. The iodine appeared against the wire N., and not against the wire P; thus demonstrating that the current through the cross-wires, when contact was broken, was in the reverse direction to that marked by the arrow, or that which the electromotor would have sent through it. 1085. In this experiment a bright spark occurs at the place of disjunction, indieating that only a small part of the extra current passed the apparatus at x, because of the small conducting power of the latter. 1086. 1 found it difficult to obtain the chemical effects with the simple helices and wires, in consequence of the diminished inductive power of these arrangements, and because of the passage of a strong constant current at x whenever a very active electromotor was used (1082.). 1 087. The most instructive set of results was obtained, however, wh en the galvanoINDUCTIVE ACTION OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT. 49 meter was introduced at x. Using an electromagnet at D, and continuing contact, a current was then indicated by the deflection, proceeding from P to N, in the direction of the arrow; the cross wire serving to carry one part of the electricity excited by the electromotor, and the arrangement AB D, as indicated by the arrows, the other and far greater part. The magnetic needle was then forced back, by pins applied upon opposite sides of its two extremities, to its natural position when uninfluenced by a current; after which, contact being broken at G or E, it was deflected strongly in the opposite direction; thus showing, in accordance with the chemical effects (1084.), that the extra current followed a course in the cross wires contrary to that indicated by the arrow, i. e. the one produced by the direct action of the electromotor A. 1088. With the helix only, these effects could scarcely be observed, in consequence of the smaller inductive force of this arrangement, the opposed action from induction in the galvanometer wire itself, the mechanical condition and tension of the needle from the effect of blocking (1087.) whilst the current due to continuance of contact was passing round it, and other causes. With the extended wire all these circumstances had still greater influence, and therefore allowed less chance of success. 1089. These experiments, establishing as they did, by the quantity, intensity, and even direction, a distinction between the primary or generating current and the extra current, led nme to conclude that the latter was identical with the induced current described (6. 26.) in the first series of these Researches; and this opinion I was soon able to bring to proof, and at the same times obtained not the partial (1078.) but entire separation of one current from the other. . 1090. The double helix (1053.) was arranged so that i should form the connecting wire between the plates of the electromotor, ii being out of the current, and its ends unconnected. In this condition i acted very well, and gave a good spark at the time and place of disjunction. The opposite ends of ii were then connected together so as to form an endless wire, i remaining unchanged: but now no spark, or one scarcely sensible, could be obtained from the latter at the place of disjunction. Then, again, the ends of ii were held so nearly together that any current running round that helix should be rendered visible as a spark; and in this manner a spark was obtained from ii when the junction of i with the electromotor was broken, in place of appearing at the disjoined extremity of i itself. 1091. By introducing a galvanometer or a decomposing apparatus into the circuit formed by the helix ii, I could easily obtain the deflections and decomposition occasioned by the induced current due to the breaking contact at helix i, or even to that occasioned by making contact of that helix with the electromotor; the results in both cases indicating the contrary directions of the two induced currents thus produced (26.). * It was ascertained experimentally, that if a strong current was passed through the galvanometer only, and the needle restrained in one direction as above in its natural position, when the current was stopped, no vinration of the needle in the opposite direction took place. MDcccxxxv. H 50 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. 1092. All these effects, except those of decomposition, were reproduced by two extended long wires, not having the form of helices, but placed close to each other; and thus it was proved that the extra current could be removed from the wire carrying the original current to a neighbouring wire, and was at the same time identified, in direction and every other respect, with the currents producible by induction (1089.). The case, therefore, of the bright spark and shock on disjunction may now be stated thus: If a current be established in a wire, and another wire, forming a complete cilicuit, be placed parallel to the first, at the moment the current in the first is stopped it induces a current in the same direction in the second, the first exhibiting then but a feeble spark; but if the second wire be away, disjunction of the first wire induces a current in itself in the same direction, producing a strong spark. The strong spark in the single long wire or helix, at the moment of disjunction, is therefore the equivalent of the current which would be produced in a neighbouring wire if such second current were permitted 1093. Viewing the phenomena as the results of the induction of electrical currents, many of the principles of action, in the former experiments, become far more evident and precise. Thus the different effects of short wires, long wires, helices, and electro-magnets (1069.) may be comprehended. If the inductive action of a wire a foot long upon a collateral wire also a foot in length, be observed, it will be found very small ; but if the same current be sent through a wire fifty feet long, it will induce in a neighbouring wire of fifty feet a far more powerful current at the moment of making or breaking contact each successive foot of wire adding to the sum of action; and by parity of reasoning, a similar effect should take place when the conducting wire is also that in which the induced current is formed: hence the reason why a long wire gives a brighter spark on breaking contact than a short one (1068.), although it carries much less electricity. 1094. If the long wire be made into a helix, it will then be still more effective in producing sparks and shocks on breaking contact; for by the mutual inductive action of the convolutions each aids its neighbour, and will be aided in turn, and the suim, of effect will be very greatly increased. 1095. If an electromagnet be employed, the effect will be still more highly exalted; because the iron, magnetized by the power of the continuing current, will lose its magnetism at the moment the current ceases to pass, and in so doing will tend to produce an electric current in the wire around it (37.38.), in conformity with that which the cessation of current in the helix itself also tends to produce. 1096. By applying the laws of the induction of electric currents formerly developed (6. &c.), various new conditions of the experiments could be devised, which by their results should serve as tests of the accuracy of the view just given. Thus, if a long wire be doubled, so that the current in the two halves shall have opposite actions, it ought not to give a sensible spark at the moment of disjunction: and this proved to be the case, for a wire forty feet long, covered with silk, being doubled and tied closely together to within four inches of the extremities, when used in that state, INDUCTIVE ACTION OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT. 51 gave scarcely a perceptible spark; but being opened out and the parts separated, Bit gave a very good one. The two helices i and ii being joined at their similar ends, and then used at their other extremities to connect the plates of the electronmotor, thus constituted one long helix, of which one half was opposed in direction to the other half: under these circumstances it gave scarcely a sensible spark, even when the soft iron core wras within, although containing nearly two hundred feet of wire. When it was made into one consistent helix of the same length of wire it gave a very bright spark. 1097. Similar proofs can be drawn from the mutual inductive action of two separate currents (1110.); and it is important for the general principles that the consistent action of two sucl currents should be established. Thus, two currents going in the same direction should, if simultaneously stopped, aid each other by their relative influence; or if proceeding in contrary directions, should oppose each other under similar circumstances. I endeavoured at first to obtain two currents from, two different electromotors, and passing them through the helices i and ii, tried to effect the disjunctions mechanically at the same moment. But in this I could not succeed; one was always separated before the other and in that case produced little or no spark, its inductive power being employed in throwing a current round the remaining complete circuit (1090.): the current which was stopped last always gave a bright spark. If it were ever to become needful to ascertain whether two junctions were accurately broken at the same moment, these sparks would afford a test for the purpose, having an infinite degree of perfection. 1098. I was able to prove the points by other expedients. Two short thick wires were selected to serve as terminations, by which contact could be made or broken with the electromotor. The compound helix, consisting of i and ii (1053.), was adjusted so that the extremities of the two helices could be placed in communication with the two terminal wires, in such a manner that the current moving through the thick wires should be divided into two equal portions in the two helices, these portions travelling, according to the mode of connexion, either in the same direction or in contrary directions at pleasure. In this manner two streams could be obtained, both of which could be stopped simultaneously, because the disjunction could be broken at G or F by removing a single wire. When the helices were in contrary directions, there was scarcely a sensible spark at the place of disjunction; but when they were in accordance there was a very bright one. 1099. The helix i was now used constantly, being sometimes associated as above, with helix ii in an according direction, and sometimes with helix iii, which was placed at a little distance. The association i and ii, which presented two currents able to affect each other by induction, because of their vicinity, gave a brighter spark than the association i and iii, where the two streams could not exert their mutual influence; but the difference was not so great as I expected. 1 100. Thus all the phenomena tend to prove that the effects are due to an inducH2 52 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. tive action, occurring at the moment when the principal current is stopped. I at one time thought they were due to an action continued during the continuance of the current, and expected that a steel magnet would have an influence according to its position in the helix, comparable to that of a soft iron bar, in assisting the effect. This, however, is not the case; for hard steel, or a magnet in the helix, is not so effectual as soft iron; nor does it make any difference how the magnet is placed in the helix, and for very simple reasons, nainely, that the effect does not depend upon a permanent state of the core, but a change of state, and that the magnet or hard steel cannot sink through such a difference of state as soft iron, at the moment contact ceases, and therefore cannot produce an equal effect in generating a current of electricity by induction (34. 37.). 1 101. As an electric current acts by induction with equal energy at the moment. of its commencement as at the moment of its cessation (10. 26.), but in a contrary direction, the reference of the effects under examination to an inductive action, would lead to the conclusion that corresponding effects of an opposite nature must occur in a long wire, a helix, or an electromagnet, every time that contact is made with the electromotor. These effects will tend to establish a resistance for the first moment in the long conductor, producing a result equivalent to the reverse of a shock or a spark. Now it is very difficult to devise means fit for the recognition of such negative results; but as it is probable that some positive effect is produced at the time, if we knew what to expect, I think the few facts bearing upon this subject with which I am acquainted are worth recording. 1102. The electro-magnet was arranged with an electrolyzing apparatus at x, as before described (1084.), except that the intensity of the chemical action at the electromotor was increased until the electric current was just able to produce the feeblest signs of decomposition whilst contact was continued at G and E (1079.) ; (the iodine of course appearing against the end of the cross wire P;) the wire N was also separated from A at r, so that contact there could be made or broken at pleasure. Under these circumstances the following set of actions was repeated several times: contact was broken at r, then broken at G. next made at r, and lastly renewed at G; thus any current from N to P due to breaking of contact was avoided, but any additional force to the current from P to N due to making contact could be observed. In this way it was found, that a much greater decomposing effect (causing the evolution of iodine against P) could be obtained by a few completions of contact than by the current which could pass in a much longer time if the contact was continued. This I attribute to the act of induction in the wire A B D at the moment of contact rendering that wire a worse conductor, or rather retarding the passage of the electricity through it for the instant, and so throwing a greater quantity of the electricity which the electromotor could produce, through the cross wire passage N P. The instant the induction ceased, A B -D resumed its full power of carrying a constant current of INDUCTIVE EFFECT AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF A CURRENT. 53 electricity, and could have it highly increased, as we know by the former experiments (1060.) by the opposite inductive action brought into activity at the moment contact at Z or C was broken. 1103. A galvanometer was then introduced at x, and the deflection of the needle noted whilst contact was continued at G and E: the needle was then blocked as before in one direction (1087.), so that it should not return when the current ceased, but remain in the position in which the current could retain it. Contact at G or E was broken, producing of course no visible effect; it was then renewed, and the needle was instantly deflected, passing from the blocking-pins to a position still further from its natural place than that which the constant current could give, and thus showing by the temporary excess of current in this cross communication, the temporary retardation in the circuit A B D. 1104. On adjusting a platina wire at x (1081.) so that it should not be ignited by the current passing through it whilst contact at G and E was continued, and yet become red hot by a current somewhat more powerful, I was readily able to produce its ignition upon making contact, and again upon breaking contact. Thus the momentary retardation in A B D on making contact was again shown by this result, as well also as the opposite result upon breaking contact. The two ignitions of the wire at x were of course produced by electric currents moving in opposite directions. 1105. Using the helix only, I could not obtain distinct deflections at x, due to the extra effect on making contact, for the reasons already mentioned (1088.). By using a very fine platina wire there (1083.), I did succeed in obtaining the igniting effect for nmaking contact in the same manner, though by no means to the same degree, as with the electromagnet (1104.). 1106. We may also consider and estimate the effect on making contact, by transferring the force of induction from the wire carrying the original current to a lateral wire, as in the cases described (1090.); and we then are sure, both by the chemical and galvanometrical results (1091.), that the forces upon making and breaking contact, like action and reaction, are equal in their strength but contrary in their direction. If, therefore, the effect on making contact resolves itself into a mere retardation of the current at the first moment of its existence, it must be, in its degree, equivalent to the high exaltation of that same current at the moment contact is broken. 1107. Thus the case, under the circumstances, is, that the intensity and quantity of electricity moving in a current are smaller when the current commences or is increased, and greater when it diminishes or ceases, than they would be if the inductive action occurring at these moments did not take place; or than they are in the original current wire if the inductive action be transferred from that wire to a collateral one (1090.). 1 108. From the facility of transference to neighbouring wires, and from the effects generally, the inductive forces appear to be lateral, i. e. exerted in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the originating and produced currents: and they also 54 PR. FARADAYS EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. appear to be accurately represented by the magnetic curves, and closely related to, if not identical with, magnetic forces. 1109. There can be no doubt that the current in one part of a wire can act by induction upon other parts of the same wire which are lateral to the first, i. e. in the same section, or in the parts which are, more or less oblique to it (1112.), just as it can act in producing a current in a neighbouring wire. It is this which gives the appearance of the current acting upon itself: but all the experiments and all analogy tend to show that the elements (if I may so say) of the currents do not act upon themselves, and so cause the effect in question, but produce it by exciting currents in conducting matter which is lateral to them. 1110. It is possible that some of the expressions I have used may seem to imply that the inductive action is essentially the action of one current upon another, or of one element of a current upon another element of the same current. To avoid any such conclusion I must explain more distinctly my meaning. If an endless wire be taken, we have the means of generating a current in it which shall run round the circuit without adding any electricity to what was previously in the wire. As far as we can judge, the electricity which appears as a current is the same as that which before was quiescent in the wire; and though we cannot as yet point out the essential condition of difference of the electricity at such times, we can easily recognis the two states. Now when a current acts by induction upon conducting matter lateral to it, it probably acts upon the electricity in that conducting matter whether it be in the form of a current or quiescent, in the one case increasing or diminishing the current according to its direction, in the other producing a current, and the amount of the inductive action is probably the same in both cases. Hence, to say that the action of induction depended upon the mutual relation of two or more currents, would, according to the restricted sense in which the term current is understood at present (283. 517. 667.), be an error. 1 111. Several of the effects, as, forinstances, those with helices (1066.), with according or counter currents (1097. 1098.), and those on the production of lateral currents (1090.), appeared to indicate that a current could produce an effect of induction in a neighbouring wire more readily than in its own carrying wire, in which case it inight be expected that some variation of result would be produced if a bundle of wires were used as a conductor instead of a single wire. In consequence the followmng experiments were made. A copper wire one twenty-third of an inch in diameter was cut into lengths of five feet each, and six of these being laid side by side in one bundle, had their opposite extremities soldered to two terminal pieces of copper. This arrangement could be used as a discharging wire, but the general current could be divided into six parallel streams, which might be brought close together, or, by the separation of the wires, be taken more or less out of each other's influence. A somewhat brighter spark was, I think, obtained on breaking contact when the six wires were close together than when held asunder. INDUCTIVE ACTION OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT. 11 12. Another bundle, containing twenty of these wires, was eighteen feet long : the terminal pieces were one fifth of an inch in diameter, and each six inches long. This was compared with nineteen feet in length of copper wire one fifth of an inch in diameter. The bundle gave a smaller spark on breaking contact than the latter, even when its strands were held together by string : when they were separated, it gave still smaller spark, Upon the whole, however, the diminution of effect was not such as I expected; and I doubt whether the results can be considered as any proof of the truth of the supposition which gave rise to them. 11 13. The inductive force by which two elements of one current (1 109. 1 1 10.) act, upon each other, appears to diminish as the line joining them becomes oblique to the direction of the current, and to vanish entirely when it is parallel. I am led by some results to suspect that it then even passes into the repulsive force noticed by AMPERE *; which is the cause of the elevations in mercury described by Sir HUmPHRY DAvy t and which again is probably directly connected with the, quality of intensity. 11 14. Notwithstanding that the effects appear only at the making and breaking of contact, (the current remaining unaffected, seemingly, in the interval,) I cannot resist the impression that there is some connected and correspondent effect produced by this lateral action of the elements of the electric stream during the time of its continuance (60.242.). An action of this kind, in fact, is evident in the magnetic relations of the parts of the current. But admitting (as we may do for the moment) the snags netic forces to constitute the power which produces such striking and different results at the commencement and termination of a current, still there appears to be a link in the chain of effects, a wheel in the physical mechanism of the action, as yet unrecognised. If we endeavour to consider electricity and magnetism as the results of two forces of a physical agent, or a peculiar condition of matter, exerted in determinate directions perpendicular to each other, then, it appears to me, that we must consider these two states or forces as convertible into each other in a greater or smaller degree; i. e. that an element of an electric current has not a determinate electric force and a determinate magnetic force constantly existing in the same ratio, but that the two forces are, to a certain degree, convertible by a process or change of condition at prep sent unknown to us. Hlow else can a current of a given intensity and quantity be able, by its direct action, to sustain a state which, when allowed to react, (at the cessation of the original current,) shall produce a second current, having an intensity and quantity far greater than the generating one ? This cannot result front a direct reaction of the electric force; and if it result from a change of electrical into magnetic force, and a reconversion back again, it will show that they differ in something more than mere direction, as regards tIIat agent in the conducting wire which constitutes their immediate cause. 11 15. With reference to the appearance, at different times, of the contrary effects* Recueil d'Observations Electro-Dynamiques, p. 285. t Philosophical Transactions, 1823, p. 155. 56 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. produced by the making and breaking contact, and their separation by an intermediate and indifferent state, this separation is probably more apparent than real. If the conduction of electricity be effected by vibrations, or by any other mode in which opposite forces are successively and rapidly excited and neutralized, then we might expect a peculiar and contrary development of force at the commencement and termination of the periods during which the conducting action should last (somewhat in analogy with the colours produced at the outside of an imperfectly developed solar spectrum): and the intermediate actions, although not sensible in the same way, may constitute the very essence of conductibility. It is by views and reasons such as these, which seem to me connected with the fundamental laws and facts of electrical science, that I have been induced to enter, more minutely than I otherwise should have done, into the experimental examination of the phenomena described in this paper. 1116. Before concluding, I may briefly remark, that on using a voltaic battery of fifty pairs of plates instead of a single pair (1052.), the effects were exactly of the same kind. The spark on making contact, for the reasons before given, was very small (1101. 1107.); that on breaking contact, very excellent and brilliant. The continuous discharge did not seem altered in character, whether a short wire or the powerful electromagnet were used as a connecting discharger. 11 17. The effects produced at the commencement and end of a current, (which are separated by an interval of time when that current is supplied from a voltaic apparatus,) must occur at the same moment when a common electric discharge is passed through a long wire. Whether, if happening accurately at the same moment, they would entirely neutralize each other, or whether they would not still give some definite peculiarity to the discharge, is a matter remaining to be examined; but it is very probable that the peculiar character and pungency of sparks drawn from a long wire depend in part upon the increased intensity given at the termination of the discharge by the inductive action then occurring. 1118. In the wire of the helix of magneto-electric machines, (as, for instance, in Mr. SAXTON'S beautiful arrangement,) an important influence of these principles of action is evidently shown. From the construction of the apparatus the current is per. mitted to move in a complete metallic circuit of great length during the first instants of its formation: it gradually rises in strength, and is then suddenly stopped by the breaking of the metallic circuit; and thus great intensity is given by induction to the electricity, which at that moment passes (1064. 1060.). This intensity is not only shown by the brilliancy of the spark and the strength of the shock, but also by the necessity which has been experienced of well insulating the convolutions of the helix, in which the current is formed; and it gives to the current a force at these moments very far above that which the apparatus could produce if the principle which forms the subject of this paper were not called into play. Royal Institution, December 8th, 1834. 