ERRATA In Mr. ATWOOm'S Disquisition on the Stability of Ships. Page 2 13, lines 8 and 9, dele "s situated between wind and water, according to a technical expression." Page 223, 1. zz, for + SB, read +SB 3 Flu. xy3+P fltf 3 Z47, 1. 9, for read fluent of x + p 252, 1. 25, after point V, add produce XL in directum, and in the line so prom duced. 2254, 1. 22, after the words "t proportion of 3 to 5," instead of the comma insert a colon. Page 268, 1. 8, for DD'G'GA, read DD'G'GD. PHILOSOPHICAL T-RANSACTION S. X. A Disquisition on the Stability of Ships. By George Atwood, Esq. F. R. S. Read March 8, 1798. THE stability of vessels, by which they are enabled to carry a sufficient quantity of sail, without danger or inconvenience, is reckoned amongst their most essential properties; although the wind may, in one sense, be said to constitute the power by which ships are moved forward in the sea, yet, if it acts on a vessel deficient in stability, the effect will be to incline the ship from the upright, rather than to propel it forward: stability is therefore not less necessary than the impulses of the wind are, to the progressive motion of vessels. This power has also considerable influence in regulating the alternate oscillations of a ship in rolling and pitching; which will be smooth and equable, or sudden and irregular, in a great measure, according as the stability is greater or less at the several angles of inclination from the upright. From constantly observing that the performance of vessels at sea depends materially on their stability, both navigators and naval architects must, at all MDCCXCVlII. Dd Mr. ATWOOD'S Dhsquisition on times, be desirous of discovering in what particular circumsstances of construction this property consists, and according to what laws the stability is affected by any varieties that may be given to their forms, dimnensions, and disposition of contents; which are -determined partly according to the skill and judgment of the constructor, and partly by adjustments after the vessel has been set afloat. Little more than a century has nowelapsed, since the theoryof mechanics was first applied to the construction and management of vessels; whatever principles had been previously adopted, for regulating their forms and equipment, as well as for directing them in the ocean, were the result of experience and observation alone: a mode of arriving at truth, however advantageous in many respects, yet not entirely to be relied on in this instance, for explaining satisfactorily, and reducing to system, phenomena depending on the intricate combination of causes which influence a vessel's motion, and equilibrium, at sea. The theory of mechanics is known to explain all effiects that can arise from the action of forces, however complicated, of which the quantities and directions are defined with sufficient precision. This. science, having been greatly extended, and successfully employed, by Sir ISAAC NEWTON, in the investigation of causes. requiring the most profound research, would naturally be resorted to, for a solution of many difficulties that occur in the theory of navalarchitecture, which could not be obtained from any other mode of considering this subject. The practice of ship building having been many ages antecedent to the diss covery ofthe theory of mechanics, one object of theoretic< inquiry must necessarily be, to-explain the principles of con-stractionr and management which experience and practical the Stability of Shifs. 20s observation have previously discovered; distinguishing those which are founded in truth and right practice, from others which have been the ofspring of vague and capricious opinion, misinterpretation of facts, and unfounded conjecture, by which, phenomena arising in, the practice of navigation are often, attributed to causes entirely different from those by which they are really governed. It is also the object of 'mechanic theory to investigate, from the consideration of any untried plans of construction, what will be the effect thereof on the motion of vessels at sea; also to suggest new combinations, by which the approved qualities of vessels may be extended, their faults amended, or defects supplied. These several objects, and others connected with them, have employed the attention of many eminent theorists, by whose discoveries naval architecture has been greatly benefited; yet the progress made toward esta-f blishing a general theory, founded; on the laws of motion; has not been adequate to what might be expected from the abi. lities of the writers on this subject, and the laborious attention they have bestowed upon it. Although all results deduced by strict geometrical inference from the laws of motion, are found, by actual experience, to be perfectly consistent with matter of fact, when subjected to the most decisive trials, yet, in the application of these laws to the subject in question, difd ficulties often occur, either from the obscure nature of the conditions, or'the intricate analytical operations arising from them, which either render it impracticable to obtain a solution, or, if a result is obtained, it is expressed in -terms so involved and complicated, as to become in a manner useless, as to any practical purpose. These imperfections in the theory of vessels, are amongst the causes which have contributed to Dd 2 204 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on retard the progress of naval architecture, by increasingr the hazard of failure in attempting to supply its defects by experiment; for, when no satisfactory estimate can be formed from theory, of the effects likely to ensue from adopting any alteration of construction that may be proposed, doubts must necessarily arise respecting its success or, failure, which can be resolved only by having recourse to actual trial: a species of experiment rarely undertaken under the impressions of uncertain success, when the objects of it are so costly, and otherwise of so much importance. To the imperfections of theory, may also be attributed that steady adherence to practical methods, rendered familiar by usage, which creates a disposition to reject, rather than to encourage, proposals of innovation in the construction of vessels: the defects or inconveniences which are known, and have become easily tolerable by use, or may perhaps be the less distinctly perceived for want of comparison with more perfect works of art, being deemed preferable to the adoption of projected improvements, attended by the danger of introducing evils, the nature and extent of which cannot be fully known. TThese are amongst the difficulties and disadvantages which have concurred in rendering the progress of improvement, in the art of constructing vessels, extremely slow, and have left many imperfections in this practical branch of science, which still remain to be remedied. In respect to the theory of vessels, it would be giving that term too narrowed a meaning, to consider it as derived solely from the laws of mechanics ; every notion or opinion which may be applied to explain satisfactorily the phenomena depending on a vessel's. construction and qualities so as to infer the consequences of given conditions, independently of actual trial, whether it orithe Stability of Ships. 205 ginates from experience alone, or from investigations founded on the laws of motion, is to be regarded as forming a part of this theory, in which, a constant reference to practice is so essentially necessary. For, although many principles are deducible from the laws of mechanics, which it is probable that no species of experiment, or series of observation, however long continued, would discover, yet there are others, no less important, which have been practically determined with sufficient exactness, the investigation of which it is scarcely possible to infer from the laws of motion; the complicated and ill defined nature of the conditions, in partic ular instances; rendering analytical operations founded on them liable to uIncertainty. Since the practice of naval architecture depends so materially on the knowledge of the causes which influence the motion of vessels at sea, much benefit may probably be derived from the extension of well founded principles, both by attentive observation of the qualities of vessels, compared with their construction, as well as by investigation of the effects arising from particular modes of construction, depending on the laws of statics and mechanics, whenever the conditions admit of inferring principles which are clear and satisfactory, and easily applicable in practice. With a view to these objects,so far as regards the theory of stability, the ensu ing Disquisition has been written. When a ship, or other floating body, is deflected from its quiescent position, the force of the fluid's pressure operates to restore the floating body to the situation from which it has been inclined. This force is distinctly described, in a treatise written by the most celebrated geometrician of ancient times, who uses the following argument for demonstrating the position in which a parabolic conoid will float permanently in given cir206 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on cumstances. To shexw that this solid will float with the axis inclined to the fluid's surface at a certain stated angle, depending on the specific gravity and dimensions of the solid, he demonstrates, * that if the angle should be greater than that which he has assigned, the fluid's pressure will diminish it; and that, if the angle should be less, the fluid's pressure will operate to increase it, by causing the solid to revolve round an axis which is parallel to the horizon. It is an evident consequence, that the solid cannot float quiescent with the axis inclined to the fluid's surface, at any angle except that which is stated. The force which is shewn in this proposition, to turn the solid, so as to alter the inclination of the axis to the horizon, is the same with the force of stability; the quantity or measure of which, ARCHIMEDES does not estimate; nor was it necessary to his purpose, since the alteration of inclination required to establish the quiescent position, may be produced either in a greater or less time, without affecting his argument. It does not appear, that this method of determining the floating positions of bodies was afterwards extended to infer similar conclusions in respect to solids of any other forms, nor to determine any thing concerning the inclination or equilibrium of ships at sea, which require the demonstration, not only that a force exists, in given circumstances, to turn the vessel round -an axis, but also the magnitude or precise measure of that force. M. BOUGUER, in his treatise intitled " Traite du Navire," t has investigated a theorem for estimating the exact measure of the stability of floating bodies. This theorem, in one sense, is general, not being confined to bodies of any particular form ; but, in respect to the angles of a ARCH I MEDES de iis Qute in bumido vebuntur. f Livrn. sect. 2. cbap. -8. the Stability of Shps. 207 inclination, it is restrained to thecondition that the inclinations from the upright shall be evanescent, or, in a practical sense, very small angles. In consequence of this restriction, the rule in question cannot bee generally applied to ascertain the stability of ships at sea; because the angles to which they are inclined, both by rolling and pitching, being of considerable magnitude, the stability will depend, not only on the conditions which enter into M. BoUGUERWS solution, but also on the shape given to the sides of the vessel above and beneath the water-line or section, of which M. BOmGUER'S theorem takes no account. But it is certain that the quantity of sail a ship is enabled safely to carry, and the use of the guns in rough weather, depend in a material degree on the form of the sides above and beneath the water-line; this observation referring to that portion of the sides only which maybe immersed under, or may emerge above, the water's surface, in consequence of the vessel's inclination; for, whatever portion of the sides is not included within these limits, will have no effect on the vessel's stability, the centres of gravity, volume of water displaced, and other elements not being altered, By the water-section is meant, the plane in which the water's surface intersects the vessel, when floating upright and quiescent ; and the termination of this section in the sides of the vessel is termed the water-line. A general theorem for determining the floating positions of bodies is demonstrated in a former paper, inserted in the Phil. Trans. for the year 1796, and applied to bodies of various forms: the same theorem is there shewn to be no less applicable to the stability of vessels, taking into account the shape of the sides, the inclination from the upright, as well as every other circumstance by which the 208 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on stability can be influenced. To infer, from this theorem, the stability of vessels in particular cases, the form of the sides, and the angle of inclination from the perpendicular, must be given. These conditions admit of great variety, considering the shape of the sides, both above the water-line and beneath it; for we may first assume a case, which is one of the most simple and obvious ; this is, when the sides of a vessel are parallel to the plane of the masts, both above and beneath the water-line; or, secondly, the sides may be parallel to the masts under the water-line, and project outward, or may be inclined inward, above the said line; or they may be parallel to the masts above the water-line, and inclined either inward or outward beneath it; some of these cases, as well as those which follow, being not improper in the construction of particular species of vessels, and the others, although not suited to practice, will contribute to illustrate the general theory. The sides of a vessel may also coincide with the sides of a wedge, inclined to each other at a given angle; which angle, formed at an imaginary line, where the sides, if produced, would intersect each other, may be situated either under or above the water's surface. To these cases may be added, the circular form of the sides, and that of the Apollonian or conic parabola. The sides of vessels may also be assumed to coincide vith curves of different species and dimensions, some of which approach to the forms adopted in the practice of naval architecture, particularly in the larger ships of burden. And lastly, the shape of the sides may be reducible to no regular geometrical lawnc; in which case, the determination of the stability, in respect to a ship's rolling, requires the mensuration of the ordinates of the vertical sections which intersect the longer the Stability of S12ips1 209 axis at right angles; similar-mensura-tions aree also required for determining the stability, in respect to the .shorter0: axis,round which a vesse?1 revolves in pitching. In order todescribe distinctly these several cases, the variation of the fsections, both in form and magnitude, from head to stern of the vessel, has notbeen considered ; the sections being supposed equal and similar figures, such as they in reality are, near the greatest, section of a ship, growing smaller, and^ altering their form, toward the head and stern. = But., before this alteration can betaken into account, it is necessary first to ascertain the stability corresponding: to a vessel or segmentin which the sections are equal and similar figures; from which determination, the stability is inferred which actually exists, when the form and magnitude of the sections alter continually, from one extremity of the vessel to the other. The consideration of the cases which have been here stated,with inferences and observations thereon, is the subject of the ensuing pages in which, if any ideas are suggested which may be at all useful in: the practice of naval architecture, or may contribute to remove imperfect -or erroneous notions Which have been entertained respecting a principal branch of it, the intention of the Author will be accomplished. Let WBCOFAH (Tab. VIII. fig. i.) represent a vertical section -of a vessel floating quiescent and upright, and, intersected by the water's surface in the line BA: BCOFA will be the area immersed under water. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from the perpendicular, through the angle ASH, so that the intersection of the vessel by the water's surface, which before coincided with BA, shall now coincide with the line MDCCXCVIII. E e 210 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on CHI: the area tinder water will now be COFAH, equal to the area BCOFA. Let the section WBCOFAH, and all the other vertical sections intersecting the longer axis at right angles, be assumed similar and equalfigures, projected on the plane WBOAH: in consequence, the area B OA will be to the area AS H, as the entire volume immersed is to the volume immersed by the vessel's inclination. Moreover, if E is the centre of gravity of the area BOA, that point will truly represent the centre of gravity of the volume immersed, when the vessel is upright . if the centre of gravity of the immersed area COFAH, when the vessel is inclined, should be situated at Q, that point will also coincide with the centre of gravity of the corresponding displaced volume. For these reasons, the spaces BOA, ASH, COFAH, will be denominated, in the following pages, -indifferently, areas or volumes. Let G be the centre of gravity of the vessel, by which term, the vessel and its contents, of every kind, are always understood to be implied. Through G, draw GU parallel to CH: and through Q, draw QZ perpendicular to C H. When the ship is inclined round the longer axis, through the angle A S-H, the fluid's pressure acts in the direction of the vertical line QZ, with a force equal to the vessel's weight; and the stability or effect of this -force, to turn the vessel round an axis passing through -G, perpendicular to -the plane B OA, will be greater or less, according to the magnitude of the line G Z, or distance from the axis at which the. force of pressure acts. In the same vessel, the weight not being altered, the stability, at different angles of inclination from' the upright, will be truly measured by the line G Z; and, in different vessels, or in the the Stability of Ships. 21i same vessel differently laden, the stability will be measured by the weight of the vessel and the line G Z jointly. The weight of any vessel (including the lading) is equal to the weight of water displaced by it; which will be obtained by measuring the solid contents of the displaced volume, and from knowing the weight of a given portion of sea water, such as a cubic foot, which weighs 64 pounds avoirdupois. The vessel's weight being thus obtained, the determination of the stability, whatever be its form or inclination from the upright, requires only that the line G Z shall be known, or the proportion which it bears to some given line, for instance, the line B A, shall be ascertained. A general method of constructing this line' is demonstrated in the Phil. Trans. for the year 1796, but is there principally applied to the floating position of bodies; its use in investigating the stability of vessels is incidentally mentioned, and in general terms, rather than as being itself a subject of disquisition. This theorem is founded on supposing the centres of gravity of the several volumes BOA, COFH, ASH, BSC, (fig. i.) to be given in position; an assumption allowable in demonstrating a general theorem: but, in applying it to the stability of particular vessels, it becomes necessary that the. positions of these points should be absolutely found, and the results combined with the other conditions, to infer the measure of stability; a determination which, in some cases, is attended with much difficulty, and in others, is not practicable by any direct methods; an instance, amongst many that might be mentioned, in which the particular application is more difficult than the general demQnstration of propositions. The following constructions and investigations are Ee 2 212 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on principally inferred from the general theorem for ascertaining the stability of floating bodies; which is here subjoined, to avoid the necessity of future references, as well as for the purpose of stating more distinctly the observations which follow it. Let M (fig. i.) be the centre of gravity of the volume A SH, which has been immersed under water, and let I be the centre of gravity of the volume B S C, which has emerged above the water's surface, in consequence of the vessel's inclination; through the points M and 1, draw the lines M L, I K, perpendicular to the line CH, which coincides with the water's surface when the vessel is inclined : through E, the centre of gravity of the displaced volume BOA, draw EV parallel and equal to KL, and through G draw GU parallel and GR perpen. dicular to CH ; according to the theorem, the line ET will be determined by the following proportion. As the total volume displaced BOA is to SAH, the volume immersed in consequence of the inclination, so is KL or EV to ET; and, since the angle EGR is equal to the vessel's inclination ASH, and the distance GE is supposed to be given, the line ER will be known; because ER is to GE as the sine of the angle EGR to radius;, ER being subtracted from ET will leave RT or GZ, equal to the measure of the vessel's stability. Suppose the line K L to be denoted by the letter b let the volume ASHH be represented by A, and the volume B 0 A. by V. Then, according to the theorem, since V: A b bA EDT, it follows that ET = -, and if GE is put = d, and s. the sine of the angle to which the vessel is inclined, radius being -I, E R will be =-d s; and the measure of the vest sel's stability RT or G Z = A d s the Stability of Sbips 2 13 Through the points C and H, (fig. 1.) let the lines CF, WH, be drawn parallel to BA. The position of the points M and I, the magnitude of the line KL, and the areas or volumes ASH, BSC, being the same, whatever alteration may take place in the volume V, or the entire volume displaced, the quantity KL x area ASH or bA will remain the same: and, since the line ET= LA, it will follow, that the zone WHFC, situated between wind and water, (according to a technical expression,) not being altered, ET will be in the inverse proportion of V, or the total. volume displaced. If, therefore, the shape of the vessel under the line CF should be any how changed, so as to coincide with another figure, suppose C cf F, (fig. 2.) instead of COF, (fig. i.) the volume C cf F being equal to the volume COF, the line ET will be the same in both cases. In consequence of this change of figure, the position of the point E, (fig. 1.) or centre of gravity of the volume BOA, may be situated higher or lower in the line OD; yet, if the centre of gravity G is so adjusted by ballast, or other means, that the distance GE shall be the same, the stability of each vessel, BCOA (fig. 1.) and BC cfA (fig. 2.) will be perfectly the same, when inclined to the same angle ASH from the upright. It must also be observed, that since E T is always greater in the same proportion in which the volume immersed B OA is less, the zone WH C F being both in magnitude and form the same, having found by construction or calculation the value of the line E T corresponding to any given volume displaced, suppose V BCOA, (fig. 1.) the line E t corresponding to any other inagnitude of volume displaced, suppose v = BCV w I FA, (figs.) will be immediately inferred; for, since V. v: E t: E T, it 214 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on follows that E t ETV or because E T = , by substitution, E t = A. For these reasons, the determination of stability does not require that the form of the entire volume displaced should be given, but the form only of the zone W C H F, (fig, 1. and 2.) including the angle of the vessel's inclination AS H ; these conditions, together with the magnitude of the immersed volume, and the distance between the two centres of gravity G and E, are sufficient for finding the measure of stability, at any given angle of inclination from the upright. CASE I. The sides of a vessel are parallel to the plane of the masts, both above and beneath the water-line. Q B C OAlH (fig. 3 ) coincides with the vertical section of a vessel when it floats upright and quiescent, and is intersected by the water's surface in the line B A; the sides Q C, H D, are parallel to each other, and to the plane of the masts W 0, and are therefore perpendicular to B A. G is the centre of gravity of the vessel; V represents the magnitude of the volume immersed under the water; the centre of gravity of this volume is situated at E. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from its quiescent position through any given angle, it is required to express, by geometrical construction, the measure of the vessel's stability, when thus inclined. Bisect B A in the point S, and. through S draw C S H, inclined to B A, at the given angle of the vessel's inclination from the upright. Bisect BC in F, and AH in N; and join SF and SN. In the line SF take SI to SF as 2 to 3; also, in the line SN, take the Stability of Shizps. 215 SM to SN as 2 to 3. Through the points I and M, draw IK, NIL, perpendicular to C H. Through the point E, draw EV parallel and equal to KL. In the line EV, take ET to EV, in the proportion which the volume ASH bears to the entire volume displaced. Through G, draw GIU parallel to CH; and through T, draw TZ perpendicular to GU. GZ is the measure of the vessel's stability. The demonstration of this construction evidently follows from the general theorem. From this construct ion, the value of G Z, or measure of the vessel's stability, may be investigated analytically, and ex. pressed in general terms. Through G, draw G R perpendi-. cular to E V. Let B A = t, G E = d, the angle AS H = S radius = 1. The rules of trigonometry give the following determinations. A N =Nt x t : x/4 + tang.' S. t Also, as SN: H N:: sine N H S : sin. N S H, or T;X 4 +tang.2 S t X tang. S cos. S.: sin. N S H. Wherefore 4 sin.NSH==, sin S cos. NSH_ 4+ tang.2S.sin. S sin-NSH -4.+tang.2S SN H= 4 + tang.2 S = 2 + SeC.'z S + COS_2S sec. S+cos. o 4 + tang.S'S 4 --+ ta (because2 X COS.S X sec. S 2) consequently cos. N S H = V/ + . And since by construction, S M = SN, and S NI T/ ng.2 S S M= 3 ______ T x >/4 + tang.2 S, and SL x /4 + tang.2S x Sec. S+cos. S t v4+ tang.+ S = 6x sec. S + cos. S : and the triangles S L M, S I K being simnilar and equal, K L = 2 S L: Wherefore K L-= x sec. S + cos. S E V. The ;area of the triangle ASH=~1 2x tang. S A S H = tX.8 representing the volume immersed by the vessel's inclination; and by construction, 2si6 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on As V: volumeASH: : EV: ET, or V: xtang.S X sec. S + cos. S: ET; this will give 8 3 _ _ _ __Sx o. sc the value of ET t X tang.S X cos.S + sec.S and because E R : E G: sin. S : 1, and E G cd, it follows, that E R = d x sin. S; and therefore R T, or the measure of the vessel's stability GZ =t X tang Sx cos. S + sec. S-d x sin. S. To exemplify this determination by referring to a particular case, let the vessel's breadth at the water's surface, or BA, be divided into ioo equal parts, and let G E be 13 thereof.; so that t 1oo, and d = 13. Suppose the inclination of the vessel from the perpendicular, or A S H, to be i?, = S ; and let the area B C 0 DA, representing the volume displaced, be equal to a square of which -the side is = 6o; so that the area V shall = 36oo: then, referring to the solution, we obtain cos. S + sec. S 2.0012 Also {3 x tang. S _ i ooooootang. 5 3.1013 .24 V 24 )( 3600 E T = 2.0012 x 3.10190 = 6.2063 d x sin.S 13 x sin .150 =3.3646 measure of stability, or G Z = 2.8417 It appears by this result, that when the vessel has been inclined from the upright through an angle of iy, the direction of the fluid's pressure, acting to restore the quiescent position, will pass at a distance estimated horizontally from the axis = 2.84, when the breadth B A = loo. And this will be true, whatever be the length of the axis. The fluid's pressure is the weight of water displaced, the magnitude of which depends both on the area of the vertical the Stability of Ships. 2 17 sections, and length of the axis: suppose this weight to be iooo tons; according to the preceding determination, the stability of the vessel, when inclined from the upright to an angle of ii', will be a pressure equal to the weight of iooo tons, acting at a distance of 2i parts of the breadth B A from the 100 axis, to restore the vessel to the position from which it has been inclined. This force is the same as if a pressure of 1000 X 2,84 56.8 tons, should be applied to turn the vessel at 50 the distance of to from the axis: if therefore the wind, or other equivalent power, should act on the sails of the vessel with a force of 56.8 tons, at the mean or average distance of Ao, or 2 the breadth BA from the axis, to incline the ship, the force of stability will just balance it, so as to preserve an equilibrium; the vessel continuing inclined from the upright at the angle of ?. If the wind's force should be less, the inclination must necessarily be diminished; if greater, it must be increased, until the two forces balance each other. Here it is to be observed, that the force of the wind is estimated in a direction which is perpendicular to the plane of the masts.* * In this and the following numerical examples, in order to bring into comparison the effect of giving different forms to the sides of vessels, their weights, And all the other conditions (the figure of the sides excepted) on which the stability depends, are assumed to be the same. The measures of stability are compared, both by the relative distances from the axis at which a given pressure, equal to the vessel's weight, acts to turn the ship round the longer axis, and by the relative equivalent weights which act at a given distance from the axis. By the latter method, the proportions of stability are perhaps more distinctly expressed than by the former, although both are essenw tially the same. The mechanical force employed to incline a vessel from the upright, through any given angle, for the purpose of examining and repairing the bottom of a ship, is to be ascertained from the theorems here given for expressing the measures of stability, MDCCXCVIII. F f 218 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on CASE II. The sides of a vessel project outward above the waterline, and are parallel to the masts under the water-line. The line B A (fig. 4.) represents the intersection of the water's surface with the vessel, when floating upright. The lines PC, QW, are parallel to each other, and to the line XO, which coincides with the plane of the masts, and bisects the line BA in the point D ; B C and AW, which are parallel to the .plane of the masts, coincide with the sides of the vessel under the water-line; and BY, AH, which project outwards from the plane of the masts, at the angle QAH, or YBP, are the sides of the vessel above the water-line. C H represents the intersection of the water's surface with the vessel, when inclined from the perpendicular, through a given angle OPO = ASH. Trhe distance G E, between the centres of gravity of the vessel and of the volume displaced, and the magnitude of that volume being supposed known, and the angle QAH, at which the sides AH, BY, are inclined to the plane of the masts, being also known, it is required to ascertain, by geometrical construction, the measure of the vessel's stability, when the which is exactly equal to the force to be applied for that purpose. Another method of inclining a vessel (well adapted for making experiments on this subject) is, by applying a timber at right angles to the plane of the masts. If a weight be affixed to one of its extremities, from having given the weight so applied, and its distance from the plane of the masts, together with the other conditions which determine stability, the angle of inclination, through which the ship will be inclined, may be determined by the theorems in these pages. The same inferences may be obtained, from having given the weights and spaces through which the guns are run out on one side, and drawn in on the other, instead of the weight affixed, according to the method last described. the Stability of Ships. g 19 vessel is inclined from the perpendicular, through an angle equal to the angle OPQ. At whatever angle the vessel may be inclined from the perpendicular, the total volume immersed must always remain the same, while the vessel's weight continues unaltered. Wherefore, the volume which has been immersed, or ASH, must be equal to the volume BSC, which has emerged from the water, in consequence of the vessel's inclination. For this reason, and because the side AH projects outward, while the side BC is parallel to the plane of the masts, it must necessarily happen, that the point S will not in this case bisect the line BA, as it did in the preceding construction, but will be removed nearer to the side AH, which has been immersed by the inclinationof the vessel. 0 Previously, therefore, to any consideration of the stability, it will be necessary to define the position of the point S in the line AB, so that a line CH, being drawn through S, at a given angle of inclination to AB, equal to that of the ship's inclination from the perpendicular, shall cut off the area ASH equal to the area BSC. Let the given angle of inclination be OPQ equal to ASHI (fig. 4.): the angle QAH, at which the sides of the vessel are inclined outward from the plane of the masts above the waterline, is supposed to be given: this angle + go will be the angle SAH, which is therefore a known quantity: the remaining angle SHA, in the triangle ASH, will likewise be known. Through the extremity B of the line BA, (fig. a.) equal to the vessel's breadth at the water-line, draw the indefinite line BU inclined to BA, at an angle ABU equal to OPQ: in BU, take any point 0, and, in the line BO, set off BD to BO, as the cosine of the angle ABU to radius. In the line BD, take BE to BD, as the sine of the angle BAU is to radius: also take BF to Ff2 220 MI/Ir. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on& 130, as the sine of the angle AUB to radius. Let BG be taken a geometrical mean proportional between the lines BF and BE; and from the point G, in the direction of the line GU, set offGZ equal to BF: join AZ, and, through the point G, draw GS parallel to ZA, intersecting BA in the point S. Through S, draw the line CH parallel to BU: the area ASH will be equal to the area BSC. Since, in the triangles ASH, BSC, the angle ASH is equal to the angle BSC, the areas of the triangles will be in a ratio compounded of the ratios of the sides, including the equal angles; that is, the area of the triangle ASH, will be to the area of the triangle BSC in the ratio of SA x SH to SB x SC. By the construction, the angle ASH = the angle ABU = OPO; and the angle AHS = the angle AUB: also, by Construction, BO: BD-:: rad.: cos. ASH. Also BD: BE:: rad. sin. SAH. And BF :BO:: sin. AHS: rad. Joining these ratios BF : BE:: sin. AHS X rad.: cos. ASH x sin. SAH. But, by the construction, and by the similarity of the triangles, BGS, BZA, BF or GZ: BE*: BF: BGz ::GZ2: BGI:: SA2: SBI: Wherefore SAM: SB:: sin. AHS X rad.: cos. ASH x sin. SAH. And by trigonometry SH : SA:: sin. SAH : sin. AHS; and SB: SC:: cos. ASH : rac. Joining these ratios SA X SH: SB x SC:: rad. rad. BLut the area ASH is to the area BSC as SA x SH to SB x SC; consequently, the area ASH is equal to the area BSC. To proceed with the construction of the second case. Through the point S, (fig. 4.) determined by the preceding construction, draw the line CH inclined to BA at the angle * Because the ratio of BE to BG is equal to the ratio of BG to BF, by the construction, it will follow that the ratio of BE to BF is double the ratio of BE to BG. the Stability of Sh/ips. 221 ASH, equal to the given angle OPQ: when the vessel is inclined from the perpendicular through this angle, it will be 'intersected by the water's surface coinciding with the line C HII Bisect B C in F, and AlI in N ; and join S F, S N: take S I to S F, as 2 to 3; and S M to S N, in the same proportion. Through I and M, draw the lines IK, ML, perpendicular to C H. Through the centre of gravity of the vessel G, draw G U parallel to C Ii; and through the centre of gravity E, of the displaced volume B 0 A, draw E V parallel and equal to K L ; and in E V take E T to E V, in the same proportion which the volume AS H1 bears to the entire volume displaced B OA. Through T, draw T Z perpendicular to G U. G Z is the measure of the vessel's stability. To obtain an analytical value of the line GZ for brevity, let the sine of the angle AS H be denoted by s, when radius is=, make sin. HAS=a; sin. AS S b; sin. S C B] = c. Let G _E --= d. Also, let the entire volume displaced V. By the rules of trigonometry, it is found thzat SL_3 X /4+JA Ii 4s X VI7az Se D . x 3 b% Also S K S B x Cos. AS HI + sec. AS H. 3 The area SCB or ASH SBi tang.ASI Wherefore ET SA xSBtang+Sx b + SB3 x tang._AS H+~ e' t X cos. AS H + sec. ASH. If the breadth BA * When the angle S A El = go, I a% o; atnd b cos. S; in which case, if c is SA S-S Pult=cos. S. SL = X but 4 Or =4. + tallg.t S X sin.' S3 C tang." S-tang." S x cos." S = 2z+sec." S +cos," S Cos, Ssec5" Wherefore SL. SA x Cos.S + sec.S. 222 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on be represented by the letter t, it is inferred, from the construe. tion in p. 220, that SA . XvT and SB = ztb ,,_ The VI+ V-ac T+ac value of the line ET having been thus determined, if ER -d x sin. ASH or d s be subtracted from it, the result will be GZ, the measure of the vessel's stability. Suppose the sides BY, All, (fig. z.) to project outward, at an angle -of ie inclination to the parallel sides B C, AW, so as to make the angle SAH lo5o. Let the vessel's inclination from the upright be the angle ASH 1,50; and therefore AVIS = 60o, and SCB 7e. Let the breadth BA or t = zoo equal parts, of which d or GE = 13. Then, by calculating from the analytical values just determined, it is found that KL 3 SL + SK= 68,ol7: the area AS H 347.44, and the entire volume immersed V, being, as in the former case, 3600, E T 68.017 X 347T 6.,57. And, since ER or d x sin. ASH is 3.36, if the latter value be subtracted from the former, the result will be GZ= 3.2o, or the measure of the vessel's stability. The force of stability, to restore the vessel to the upright position, will be precisely the vessel's weight, or fluid's pressure, acting in the direction of a vertical line, which passes at a distance of 3.20 from the axis, estimated in a horizontal direction. And this force is equivalent to, and will counterbalance, 3521 so parts of the vessel's weight, applied to act in a contrary direction, at the distance -of So from the said axis. So that, if the vessel's weight should be iooo tons, the force of stability would balance a weight or force of 3 X1000 = 64.2 tons, applied to act at the distance So from the axis. the Stability of Ships. 223 CASE III. The sides of a vessel are inclined inward above the waterline, and are parallel to the plane of the masts under the waterline. AH, BY, (fig. 6.) are the sides of a vessel inclined inward above the water-line BA, at an angle HAQ =Y BP from the direction of the sides AW, BC, under the water-line, which are parallel to each other, and to the plane of the masts. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from the upright, through an angle P Q. By the construction, (p. 220.) draw the line CH intersecting BA, in a point S, at an angle AS H equal to the given angle O P Q; so that the area ASH shall be equal to the area BSC. When the vessel has been inclined through the given angle 0 P Q, it will be intersected by the water's surface in the line CH. The construction of the line GZ, or measure of the vessel's stability, is the same as in the preceding case. Let the sine of ASH= s; sin. SAH = a; sin. SHA = h; sin. SCB=c to rad. = i. Also let GE=d. From the rules of trigonometry, it is inferred that K L SA X I /a 4S X V I .+ SB x cos. ASH + sec. ASH. The area S B C or A SI-I = SBZX tang. ASH 2 If, therefore, the total volume immersed is made = V, the value of the line ET will be SA xSB x tang. ASH I / z 4S+ X V I -t1 ET=~~ 6V b42S b 224 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on + X tn. x cos. ASH + sec. A SII; in which expression SA_ txVh_ and SB'= t--c; t being =the VT+ V +ac 5/h JrV/ac breadth BA. The value of ET having been thus obtained, if ER = d x sine AS I-I be subtracted from it, there will remain the value of G Z, the measure of the vessel's stability. Suppose the vessel's inclination from the perpendicular, or AS II, to be = 15', let the inclination of the sides inward above the water-line, from the direction of the parallel sides under the water, or I-iAQ = i 5; therefore SAIl = 750, and SIHA = go', making BA = t, and, applying these conditions to the analytical value just determined, it is found that K L 65.530; the area AS II 323.42; and the volume immersed, or V., being assumed = 3600, as in the preceding cases, ET _ 65 323.4X 5-.89. Subtracting from this, ER = 3.36, there will remain GZ= 2.53, or the measure of stability. If the vessel's weight should be 1ooo tons, the force of stability will be looo tons, acting to turn the vessel at a distance of -5 parts of the breadth B A from the axis; which is equal to a force or weight of = 50.6 tons, acting to turn the vessel at a distance of 50 so from the axis. CASE IV. The sides of a vessel project outwards, and at equal inclinations to the plane of the masts, both above and beneath the water-line. BA (Tab. IX. fig. 7.) is the breadth of the vessel, and cointhe Stability of Ships. 2925 cides,,with the water's surface, when the vessel floats upright. XE denotes the plane of the masts, bisecting BA in the point S. PU, QW, are lines drawn through the extremities of the line BA, and perpendicular to it, and therefore parallel toEX: the sides of the vessel above the water-line, AH, BY, are inclined outward from the plane of the masts, at an angle Q A 1-1P BY; and BC, AD, are thle sides under the water-line, also inclinedoutward from the plane of the masts, at an angle = DAW= CBU = QAI. G and E represent the centres of gravity of the vessel, and of the volume displaced, as in the former cases. To construct the measure :of stability, corresponding to any given angle of inclination from the upright, Through the point S which bisects the line BA, draw the line C H inclined to BA, at the angle ASH, equal to the given angle of inclination from the upright. Since, by the conditions of this problem, the triangles ASH, BSC, are similar and equal figures, it follows, that when the vessel is inclined from the perpendicular through the angle ASH, it.will be intersected by the water's surface, in the direction of the line CH. The subsequent part of this construction is similar to those of the preceding cases, as sufficiently appears by inspection of the figure. Let the breadth of the vessel at the water's surface, or BA =.t: put the sine of the angle AS H = s, sine SAH = a, sine SHA = h= radius. =i, GE = d. Then the area ASH, or BSC = Sa , and, if the total volume immersed is put = V, the measure of the vessel's stability, or G Z, will be = V X 4t + S 2+4SX Vja d s. MDCCXCVIII. G g 26 Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on Let BA, or t1= io, d-Act ASH 3 15, SAiH io, V =3600, as in: the former cases then, s sine 1' a-sine ioe , = sine 6o0; by referring to the solution, G Z -3.59 and the stability will be the weight of the vessel, suppose 1ooo tons, acting at the distance .q9 from the axis, to tur the vessel; which force is equivalent to a weight. of 71.7 tons applied at the distance of So from the axis. CASE V. The sides of a vessel are inclined inward, and at equal angles of inclination to the plane of the masts, both above and beneath the water-line. B A (fig. 8.) is the breadth of the vessel coinciding with the waters surface, when floating upright. XE represents the plane of the masts,; bisecting B A in the point S. U P, WQ, are lines drawn through the extremities of the line BA, parallel to X E. BY, AH, are the sides of the vessel above the, waterline, inclined inward to the plane of the masts, at the angle QAH = YBP. B C, AD, are the sides under the water-line, inclined inward to the plane of the masts, at the angle 1 DAWor CBU, which are equal to HAQ or YBP. The other conditions are as in the former cases. Through the point S, draw the-line C H inclined to B A, at the angle AASH, equal to the vessel's inclination from the upright. Since the triangles ASH, BSC, are similar and equal figures, it follows, that when the vessel is inclined to the angle AS H, it will be intersected by the water's surface in the line CH. The remaining part of this construction is similar to that of the preceding cases. The same notation being adopted with that which was used the Stability of Ships. 227 in the preceding case, by referring to trigonometrical properties, it is found that the measure of stability, or GZ= 2b st X I4S XI I --az ds. Let t =oo, d=13, the inclination of the sides inward, or HAQ= i?, ASH 1 5? SAH = 750, SHA = 9o: by calculating from these data, it is found that GZ = 2.21. If the vessel's weight should be ioeo tons, the stability will be this weight, acting to turn the vessel at the distance 2.21 from the axis; which is equivalent to a force of 44.2 tons, applied at the distance of So from the axis. CASE V[. The sides of a vessel coincide with the sides of an isosceles wedge, (fig. 9.) meeting, if produced, in an angle BWA, which is beneath the water's surface. Supposing the sides to be continued till they meet, the vertical sections will be equal isosceles triangles. BAW represents one of these triangles, B A being coincident with the water's surface, and cutting off the line BW equal to AW. The angle W BA = WA B is supposed to be given. If the vessel should be inclined from the perpendicular, so that the water's surface shall coincide with the line CH, the point of intersection S must be so situated, that the area or volume immersed, in consequence of the inclination, that is, ASH, shall be equal to the area or volume SBC, which has emerged from the water. Previously, therefore, to the construction of this case, the position of the point S is to be geometrically determined, according to the conditions required. Gg 2 ?28 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on Let BWA (fig. io.) represent a vertical section of the vessel. Through the extremity B of the line B A, draw BO inclined to B A, at the angle AB 0, equal to the vessel's inclination from the upright. In this line, take any point R, and in BR take B I to BR, as the sine of the angle WBR to radius. Also take B F to BR as the sine of B RW to radius; and let B G be a geometrical mean proportional between the lines B F and B I; from the point G, set off GZ equal to BF; join ZA, and, through G, draw GS parallel to Z A and, through S, draw ClI parallel to BZ. The area ASHI will be equal to the area SBC. By the construction, the angle ARB AAHS, and the angle WCHI = WBR; also BR: BI :: rad. sine SCB, and BF: BR:: sine AHS: rad. Joining these ratios, BF : BI :: sine Al-IS : sine SCB. By the construction, and the similarity of the triangles BGS, BZA. BF :BI:: BF: BG':: GZW: BG':: SA: SB. Wherefore SAK : SBW: : sine AHS: sine SCB By trigonometry, SH : SA : : sine SAlI : sine AVIS and SB :SC :: sine SCB: sine SAH =sine SBC Joining these ratios, SA x SHI : SB x SC :: : Therefore SA x SII = SB x SC. But the angle ASHI being equal to the angle BSC, the area of the triangle ASH will be to the area of the triangle BSC, as SA x SH is to SB x SC; and, since SA x SH is equal to SB x SC, the area of the triangle ASH is equal to the area of the triangle SBC. the Stability of Ships. 229 The point SE having been thus determined, (fig. 9.) if the line CLI is drawn through it, inclined to BA at an angle equal to the vessel's inclination from the upright, the water's surface will coincide with the line CH. To proceed, with the construction of this case ; bisect BA in D, (fig. 9.) and join WD: let G represent the centre of gravity of the vessel, and E the centre of gravity of the volume displaced, when the vessel floats upright. Let M and I be the centres of gravity of the triangles SAH, SBC; and ML, 1K, lines drawn perpendicular to CH, through. the points M and I respectively. Through G, draw GU parallel to CH; and, through E, draw EV. parallel and equal to KL. In EV, take ET to EV as the area ASH is to the area representing the total volume immersed. Through T, draw TZ perpendicular to GU. GZ will be the measure of the vessel's stability. As in the preceding cases, let BA be denoted by the letter t, and put the sine of ASH = s, sine SAH = a, sine SHA b, sine SCB -=c; the total volume immersed V. By trigonometry, SLx = SA w4X2X SK = 3 X 4XV C C And, since the area ASH = SA'xsa SB'Xsa, and Vis the area representing the entire volume immersed, the measure of stability, or SA3xsa s=i-b2 4sx/I-a` GZ6V-x 4 +% b SB3 x sa ____ 4S ___ I a* 6Vc xds. InwhXch txVW In which expression, SA = Vand SB = 230 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on Let the sides of a vessel be plane surfaces, inclined to each other at an angle of 3oQ; the vessel's inclination from the upright ==150; BA = t=oo; GE=d 13; the angle SAH= 10o5; AH S = 600?: B C S = go9. By calculating the value of the line GZ, according to the solution just given, it is found thtSA' xsa 4SXV a that -6Vb X V/4 + sxI-b + .s = 3/1155 adSB3 X s a ,1 X I _C 4S XV I-a1 .17 and 6Vc X>/ + CC _ 3,1075 Sumn of these values _ 6.2 230 d s 3 .365 Finally, the measure of the vessel's stability, SA x sa / S X I -bz ____VI al or 6Vb VX + b + b} 6Vc X X/4 + ' X.,_ s ds=GZ-2.858 If the weight of the vessel should be 100C0 tons, the force of stability will be equivalent to that weight of pressure, acting at the distance of 2.85 from the axis; or the weight of 57.0 tons, acting at the distance of So from the axis. If the sides should be inclined at an angle of 600, instead of so', the measure of stability will be 2.92 ; and the effort to turn the vessel equal to loco tons, acting at the distance 2.92, or 58.4 tons acting at the distance of 5o from the axis. The sides of vessels are not unfrequently formed so as to coincide with the sides of an isosceles wedge, or are so little curved as to approximate nearly to that figure, at least so far as that portion of the sides extends which may be immersed in, or may emerge from, the water, by the vessel's inclination. The preceding solution being expressed in terms which are rather -the Stabilty of Ships. complicated, another solution is subjoined, by which the measure of stability is exhibited in more simple terms. The investigation is troublesome; but the conciseness of the result, and the readiness with which it is applied to practical cases, compensate for the difficulty of obtaining it. Let the isosceles triangle BAF (Tab. X. fig. 1i.), represent a vertical section of the vessel.; the base of which, BA, coin-. cides with the water's surface, when the vessel floats upright. Bisect BA in D, and join FD. Let G be the centre of gravity of the vessel, and take FE to FD as 2 to 3; E will be the centre of gravity of the immersed volume when the vessel floats upright. Draw the line CHI, * intersecting the line BA at an angle ASH, equal to the given angle of the vessel's inclination from the perpendicular, and cutting off the area ASH equal to the area BSC. When the vessel is inclined through the angle ASH, the line of intersection with the water's surface will coincide -with CH. Bisect CH, in the point N, and join FN: take FQ to FN as 2 to 3. Q is the centre of gravity of the area CFH, representing the volume immersed when the vessel is inclined. Through Q, draw QM perpendicular to CH; and, through G, draw GZ perpendicular to QM. GZ is evidently the measure of the vessel's stability. To obtain an analytical value of the line GZ, through Q. draw OQP parallel toCH; through G, draw GR parallel to QM; and,through E, draw ET perpendicular to QM. In this investigation it will be expedient, first, to express in general and known terms the line FW; secondly, the line WQ, which is to MW -as the sine of the vessel's inclination toradius: this will give the value of MW, which being added to WF before * By the construction, p. 7z28 Mr. A wooD'S Disquisition on found, the sum will be the line FM; from which, if 'FE, or!of FD, be subtracted, there will remain the line ME; which is to ET as radius is to the sine of the inclination E MT, or ASH. ET will therefore be expressed in known terms; from which, if ER be subtracted, the remaining line will be RT, or GZ, the measure of the vessel's stability, analytically expressed. By the construction, the area FBA is equal to the area FCH; and, since the area BAF is to the area IKF in the same * proportion which the area FCH bears to the area FOP, it follows, that the area FIK is equal to the area FOP. Also, because CN is equal to NHi, and OP is parallel to CH, it follows, that OQ is equal to QP. For brevity let the angle KYP, or ASH, be denoted by thae letter S; FPO = FHC, by P; POF =HCF by O; also let the angle PFO be made = F. Because the areas IFK, PFO, are equal, FOxFPxsine F = FE% x tang. 2 F, radius being = 1: wherefore, 2 F _FEz X tang. I F FEz sec.I I F FP9.FOsineF = O 2 I; and, because FO = sin by FP' x sec-'{ F X'sine 0; FO = sine F rin by substitution FP' sine and therefore FP= FE x sec..LF x s/5ine but sine FWP = cos. S. Wherefore, FW :FP: sine P: cos. S; or FW: FE x sec. 2 sF x : sine P: cos. S; consequently, FW= FE x sec.I F Vsine O x sineP FW _COS.S By investigation,+ founded on the rules of trigonometry, it ' Each of these proportions being as 9 to 4. t See Appendix. the Stability of Ships. 2 3 3 I__ W;1. ci -tang. I F x tang2 S appears that Vsine 0 x sine P ag Feg.s S: sec_ F x sec. S which quantity being substituted instead of v/sine.0 x sine P, in the value of FW just found, the result will be FW = FE x V 1 tang.1 IF x tang.' S. It is found also, from trigonometrical rules, that tang-t 11 F X tang. S Xsec. S *WQ-FEx x ,a since 5/1~~/i-tan .I F x tang.' S WQ : WM:: sine S: rad. we have WM FEX tang. F FX tang. 5xe S or because sine S X AV tang.2 2 x tang.1 S tang.nS = sec. S, WM = FE x 1 F _ ; and, since sine S V s~tang.1jzF x tang.1 an FWFE x V/1 -tang.' I F x tang.1 S, and FM-=WF+WM, sec.' F we obtain the value of FM FE x ' V I-.tang.' I F x tangt S Therefore ME = FM-FE FE xCC.I F V I tang. I F x tang.2S S and ET = FE x sine S xs. 1. Itang." 2 F x tang.1 S This value of ET is inferred from supposing the area BFA to represent the entire volume immersed, and which = xtang F t being equal to the line BA. If, the sides BC, AH, remaining the same, the figure and magnitude of the immersed volume should be changed, so as to be represented by any other quantity Vt, the line ET will be increased or diminished in the inverse proportion of the entire volumes immersed, that is asV: . ::FExsine SF :ET. 4x tang.f F sn V tang.11Fx tang.1 S And, since FE = ta-lg'F See Appendix., t See pages 2z13 and 2z4. MflCCXCvIII. Ih 224, Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on t3 x sine S sec.% F T _F * )( _fi I _ 12V x tang.2 F vI tang.z I F x tang. S and the measure of the vessel's stability, expressed in general and known terms, will be *GZ t~~~3xsine S sec.14F * GZ _ t X .ne S-.i 1d X sin. S. 12V X tang. I F v i-tang." f F x tang." S When the angle of inclination S is evanescent, or in a practical sense very small, the expression becomes t'x sine S GZ =-_ zV d x sine S, agreeing with the solution given by M. EULER fin this particular case. If the inclination of the sides BF, AF, should be evanescent, the sides will become parallel to each other, and to the masts, both above and beneath the water-line; a case which has already been solved t: and consequently, the solution of case 1. ought to agree with that which has been just given for the stability, when the two sides are inclined at a given angle, assuming that angle as evanescent. Assuming, therefore, the angle BFA evanescent, and S of any finite magnitude in the general value of GZ, above determined, we have 2 tang-' F X tangyz S Vi -tang.1 F x tang. S= . mFa. and 2 sec.x 2 F 2+ 2 X tang." F+tang.1 + F X sec.' 2 F x tang.1 S; 1 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ V tang.1 F x tang. S 2 t3 X sine S tang e. F x tang.' S + 2 X tang.$ F and therefore ?GZ = tXvsitan F xtig.1S-z F Y X tang F 2 d x sin. S.* This expression for the measure of stability, is evidently more simple, and better adapted to practical application, than that which is inserted in page 229. The present result might perhaps be obtained by more concise methods: the investigation here given is the best that occurred to the author, after repeatedly endeavouring to discover some other, requiring fewer trigonometrical calculations. t Theory of the Construction and Properties of Vessels, chap. viii. t Case i. ZET... t3 x sin. S 2 + 2 X tang.' 1 F + tang. A1 F x sec.' I F x tang.' S i2V x tang."IF Z or because sec. I F x, ET = s X+-tgS 12V 2 the Stability of Sbips. 3S or GZ= V xtang. S + 2-d x sin. S, t'x tang. S or GZ X COS. S+sec. d S X sin.S. which is the measure of stability, when the inclined sides AF; BF, become parallel, the angle F vanishing. But this quantity is the measure of stability when the sides are parallel, as determined by direct investigation*; by which agreement the consistency of the two solutions is evinced. To exemplify the general solution for the case of the sides inclined at a given angle, suppose the angle B FA to be 36? F, let S =1is, AB = t _ ioo, GE = d= iA, V-= 3600. From the analytical value of the line GZ, we obtain t X sine SX zVXtang.4'F sec.'iF 1 .07457 Vi -tang.1 F x tang.' S 83.4464 x .o7457 = 6.223 d xsin. S = 3365 and GZ, the measure of stability 2.858, precisely agreeing with the result calculated by the solution, in pages 229 and 230, which has no apparent similitude or relation to the value for stability, as expressed according to this last investigation, which is GZ= t'xsin.S X v Sc. d x sin. S. i zY x tang.1 ~ i..tu. I FV x tang.' S According to the solution in page 229, the measure of stability is GZ --63 X S / +aR r a GZ=SA3 s v/7 I D 4sXVIa~ Gz ~~~ X 6Vbb ?SB3 Xsa XV XI, 4+Vi a + 6Vc' X/4 + CZl4s/_a X Case I. Hh v 236 Mr. ATwoo's Dis;quisition on in; which value s sin. S. a =-sin. SAH; c= sin. SCB ; SA = v and SB = v It might not, perhaps, be easy to deduce either of these values from the other, or to demonstrate their equality, otherwise than by the. separate in-w vestigations from which they have, been inferred.; and Yet these quantities are not approximations to equality, but are strictly and mathematically equal. CASE VI I. The"sides of a vessel are coincident with the sides of a wedge, meeting, if produced, at an angle which is above the water's surface. The sides of a vessel are represented by the, lines qh, cd, (fig. 12.) inclined at an angle, so as, if produced, to meet at the point w above the water's surface, which is coincident with ba; the lines wa, w b, are assumed equal. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from the perpendicular through any given angle; let a line ci be drawn, intersecting the line ba at the given angle of inclination, and cutting* off the area as h equal to the area bsc: when the vessel 'is inclined to the given angle from the upright, the water's surface will be coincident with the line cb. Let m and i represent centres of gravity of the areas ash, bsc, respectively, and let the line k I be constructed as in the former cases. Letg 'be the centre of gravity of the vessel, situated in the line we, which is drawn perpendicular to and bisects ba, and let e be the centre of gravity of the volume displaced; making ev parallel and equal to Ik, take et to ev.-as the area bsc is to the area representing the entire volume immersed. Through g, draw gu parallel to ch, and, through t, draw tz perpendicular to gu. g z will be the measure of the vessel's stability.i * page 228. the Stability of Ships. From this construction the following proposition is to be inferred. The sides of a vessel are plane surfaces, represented, (fig. 9.) when produced, by the equal lines7AW, BW, which meet in the point W, beneath the water-line. The sides of another vessel -(fig. ia.) are also plane surfaces inclined to each other atthe same angle' as in the former case, and represented by the equal lines a w, 6w, which meet at the pointw above the water-line: suppose the breadth of both vessels to be equal -at the waterline, and the angle BWA the angle bwa.; if the -distances between the centres of gravity of the vessels and of the im,mersed volumes are equal, and the weights of the vessels are also, equal, the proposition affirms, that the stabilities of the two vessels, when inclined to the same angle from the upright, will always be equal. Since the line' BA = b a, and the angle BAW the anglebaw (fig.9 and 12.) by the conditions of the proposition, if the angle BAW be applied over the angle ba w, the point A coinci.ding' with the point a, it follows, that the point W, and the point B, must coincide with the point' w and the point b respectively; and, since the lines BA, ba, are divided in the points 5, s, on the, same conditions, namely, so that the lines CH, c h, shall be inclined to BA, and b a, at the same angle, and shall cut off the areas ASH, a s h, equal respectively to the areas BSC, bs c; 'it must follow, that when the line AB is applied so as, to coincide with the line a b, the point S will coincide with the point s; and the angle ASH being equal to the angle' a s b, by the supposition, the line SHI'willbe -equal to the line s h; and the triangle ASH' will be equal and similar' to the triangle a s h. The centres of gravity of these triangles, therefore, or the points M and m, will coincide, as will also the lines ML, m 1, which Mr. ATWOOD.'S Disquisition on are drawn -through these points perpendicular to CH.,and ch. The line SL will therefore coincide with the line sI, and is equal to it. ;I the same manner, it is proved that the line SK is equal to the line s k; consequently, KL is equal to k 1. And sine, bye construction -the area ASH is equal to the area B3SC, and thne area da sbh: e qual to~ the areabsc; and, on application of the figuren AWB to the figure a w b, the triangle ASH coincides with the triangle a s h, it follows, that the four areas ASH, a s A, BSC, b s c, are all equal. But ET*= KLXareaASH and elttvolumas e total volut immerse total volume immersed' and, since KL = k 1, and the volume ASH the volume a s h, KL x volume ASH = k I x volume ash; and the entire volume immersed being the same in both vessels, by the supposition,'it follows that ET = e t. This equality between the lines ET, e t, is independent' of the position of the centres of gravity of the vessels, Gg, and also of the position of 'the centres of gravity, E, e, in the lines WD, w d. If the distances of GE, ge, should be equal, since the angles of inclination fromn the upright, or EGR, egr, are equal by the supposition, it follows thatthe sines of those angles Rto equal radii must be equal, or ER er.' Subtracting, therefore, ER from ET, and e r from e t, the remaining lines RT, r t, must be equal, or'"G Z = g Z. The stability, therefore, of a vessel,, the sides of which are inclined to an angle under the water's surface, is equal to the stability of the vessel of which the sides are inclined to an angle which is above the water's surface: the breadth at the water-line, and the other conditiolls, being the same in both vessels. This proposition is not confined to the case here demon* Fig. 9. See page Ziz. t Fig. iX. Seepage 2iz. the Stability of Ships. 239 strated, being equally true, whatever figure be given to the sides; and whether they are plane or curved, provided the sides under the water-line in one vessel are similar and equal, and similarly disposed, in respect of the water-line, to the sides of the other vessel above the water-line. QC, HO, (fig. i3.) represent the sides of a vessel projecting outward above the water-line, and inclined inward under the water-line. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from the upright through any given angle, and let CH be supposed drawn inclined to the line BA at the given angle, and cutting off the area ASH equal to the area SBC: when the vessel is inclined, the water's surface will coincide with the line CH. Let the sides QC, OH, be conceived to revolve round the line BA as an axis, through i 800; the position of the sides will be reversed, as represented in fig. 14: the sides which projected outward above the water-line (fig. 13.) equally project outward under the water-line in fig. 14. and are similarly situated in respect to the water-lines BA, ba. In like manner, the sides which are inclined inward under the water-line, in fig. 13. are equally inclined inward above the water-line in fig. 14.; and are also similarly situated in respect to that line. If M, I, are the centres of gravity of the areas ASH, BSC, and m, i, the centres of gravity of the areas a sh, b sc, as in the former cases, and perpendicular lines be drawn through them, ML, IK, and ml, ik; by arguments similar to those which were used to demonstrate the preceding proposition, it will be evident that the lines KL, k 1, are equal; -also that the areas ASH, BSC, ash, bsc, are all equal: and, by proceeding to construct the measures of stability corresponding to the two cases, it will appear that GZ = g z ; the weight of both vessels, and consequently the entire volumes immersed under waterbeing the same. The conclusion is, that,the 240 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disqu-isition on other conditions remaining the same, if the position of the sides should be reversed, in the manner described in the proposition, the stability, at equal angles of inclination, will remain the same. It mIay beproper in this place to remark, that the metacentric curve, described by M. BOUGUER,* and M. CLAIRBOiS,? and applied to the preceding cases, does not appear to have any relation to the stability of vessels, except in the single point where the curve intersects the vertical axis, and therefore can be -applicable only in the case when the angle of the vessel's inclination from the upright is evanescent. Let FBC, DAH, (fig. 15.) represent the sides of a vessel, BA coinciding with the water's Surface when the vessel floats upright: bisect BA in S. and draw ISE perpendicular to BA. Let E-be the centre of gravity of the volume immersed. Suppose the vessel to be inclined through a very small angle AS a, so that, the -waterts surface shall now coincide-with the line b a; and let the centre of gravity of the Volume immersed be Q. Through Q, draw the line QWz perpendicular to ba, intersecting the line IE in the point W. -This point is called by M. BOUGUER the metacentre. One of the principal properties of this point is, that whenever the centre of gravity of the ves' el is situated beneath it, any where in the line WE, (suppose at G,) the vessel will float permanently, with the line IE vertical; but that, if the centre of gravity is placed above the metacentre, suppose -at g, the vessel will overset, from that position; for, drawing GZ, gz, perpendicular to Qz, if the vessel should be inclined through a small angle AS a, so asto immerse the portion of the side A a, -the force of pressure acting in, the direction of the line QZ, to turn the vessel round an axis passing horizontally through G, will elevate the parts adjacent to A, so as to restore the upright position : whereas, if the centre of gravity* Traite du Navire, p. 270. CLAXRBOIS, P.289, et seq. the Stability of Ships. 241 should be placed above the metacentre, suppose at g, the same force of the fluid's pressure, by turning the vessel round an axis passing through g, must immerse further the portion of the side A a; and this immersion, being continued, will cause the vessel to overset. Another property of this point has been demonstrated by M. EULER, * and other authors; which is, that when the angles of a vessels inclination are evanescent, or very small, the effect of stability, to restore the vessel to the upright position, will be as the sine of the angle of inclination IGWZ t and the line WG jointly: at the same small angles of inchlnation, the stability of different vessels will be in proportion to the line WG, or distances of the metacentre above the centre of gravity. Let the curve EQ q (Tab.XI. fig. i6.) represent the line traced by the successive centres of gravity of the immersed volumes, while the vessel is inclined from the upright through any angle ASH. M. BOUGUER demonstrates, that a tangent to this curve in any point Q, will be parallel to the water's surface CH, corresponding to that point: if, therefore, through any two adjacent points Q and q, in the curve EQ q, lines QM, q N, are drawn perpen-dicular to the lines CHA, c h, respectively, the intersection of those lines in the point X will be the centre of curvature, and XQ, X q, will be the radil of a circle, which has the same currvature with the curve EQ in the point Q. For the same reasons, the line WE (fig. i , 16.) is the radius of a circle which has the same curvature with the curve EQ in the point E. The point W has been denominated the metacentre corresponding to the upright position of the vessel, when the line WGE is perpendicular to the waters surface. M. BOUGUER denomiTheory of the Construction of Vessels, chap. S. book i. t To radius I. MDCCXCVIII. I i 242 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on nates the point X the metacentre corresponding to the position when the vessel has been inclined from the upright through the angle ASH; and the curve WX is termed the metacentric curve, being the line traced by the successive metacentres, or intersections, of the lines QM, q N, drawn perpendicular to the lines in which the vessel is intersected by the water's surface, while it is gradually inclined. Consequently, according to this construction, the metacentric curve WX is the evolute, of which the curve EQ q is the involute. The construction and properties of the metacentric curve being a subject of geometrical reasoning, considered purely as such, are liable neither to ambiguity nor error; but, on what grounds these properties are applied to measure the stability of vessels, or to estimate their security from oversetting, when much inclined --from the upright, is not explained by M. BouGUER, M. CLAIRBOIS, or any other author 1 have had an opportunity of consulting: yet the opinions expressed by these authors on the subject in question, have been adopted by many persons as established principles; and, being of some importance in the practice, as well as theory, of naval architecture, it cannot be thought superfluous to pay some farther attention to them. M. BOUGUER,* having demonstrated the property of the metacentre, which gives security from spontaneously oversetting, to a vessel, whenever the centre of gravity is situated beneath it, proceeds to observe, that his theorem, being founded on supposing the angles of the vessel's inclination as evanescent, or extremely small, such as a vessel may experience in smooth water, cannot be relied on for ascertaining the safety of ships,* Traildedu Navire, p. 269. the Stability of SUijs. when agitated: by the winds and waves in open sea, where the inclinations from the upright must often become considerable. In order to extend the application of his theorem to the larger angles of inclination, he proposes to examine whether the metacentre ascends or descends as the vessel is gradually inclined.* To effect this, the curve line EQ q (fig. 16.) is to be traced, by finding the successive centres of gravity of the volumes immersed while the vessel is inclined; and, from this curve the metacentric curve WX is to be defined: the point where the metacentric -curve meets the vertical axis in W, is the metacentre corresponding to the position when the vessel floats upright and quiescent. He observes, that if the metacentre X ascends from its original position W., whilethe vessel is inclined gradually from the perpendicular, the vessel will be secure from overset-. ting; but will be insecure, if that point should descend while. the vessel is inclined. No demonstration of this proposition is given, either by M. BOUGUER, or by M. CLAIRBOIS, who undertakes to explain the principles delivered in this chapter of M. BOUGU-ER's work. ? If the proposition has been suggested by some analogies which subsist between the construction of the lines EW, QX, and other lines similarly drawn, they will be insufficient to establish the truth of it. The analogies are such as the following. W being the metacentre, and E the centre of gravity of the volume displaced, when the vessel floats upright, WE is the radius of curvature to the curve EQ q, at: the point E; X being also the metacentre, constructed according to the method which has been described, when the vessel has been inclined through an angle ASH, and Q the centre of gravity of the corresponding volume immersed; XQ is the* Trait' du Navire, p. 271. j CL Al OIS sur I'Architecture Navale, p 289, et seq.-Ii 2 .aw Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on radius of curvature of the curve EQ at the point Q. Also, EW is perpendicular to the water's surface AB, when the vessel floats upright; and XQ is perpendicular to the water's surface, when the vessel is inclined through the angle ASH. When the vessel floats upright, the stability is measured by the sine of inclination and the line GW jointly; and therefore the angle of inclination being given, will be measured by the line GW, and will' depend in some ratio or proportion on the line EW, when GE remains the same, or when G is made to coincide with E. The question is, whether the stability, when the vessel is inclined to the angle ASH, will depend in a similar degree on the line QX ? Respecting the supposed analogy it may be remarked, that one condition absolutely necessary to establish it is wanting; namely, the centre of gravity G ought to be situated in the line XQ; but it is considerably distant from that line, being placed in the vertical axis of the vessel WGE. This material difference in. the conditions corresponding to the two cases, is sufficient to destroy all inference from analogy, even if arguments of this kind could be admitted, in geometrical subjects, to supply the place of demonstration. It is not difficult to shew geometrically, in what position and circumstances of the vessel the -line XQ will be -the correct measure of its stability. Suppose that, by any alteration in the distribution of: the ballast or lading, the centre of gravityshould be removed from the line WGE to the line XGQ, the vessel will float permanently with the line XQ perpendicular to the horizon, and the mast WE will be inclined to it at the angle _ ASH: Since XQ is the radius of curvature of the curve EQ at the point Q. and is also perpendicular to CH, the point X will be the true position of the metacentre, corresponding to the floats the Stability of Ships. 245 Ing position of the vessel, when the centre of gravity is situated out of the vertical axis in the line XQ, and Q is the centre of gravity of the volume displaced. The measure of stability, when the inclination is any small angle, will be thesine of that angle and the line XG jointly; comparing, therefore, the stability of the vessel when the centre of gravity is situated in the line WGE, with the stability when the centre of gravity is in the line XGQ, the proportion of the two stabilities, at equal small angles of inclination, will be as the line WG is -to the line XG; if the centre of gravity G should coincide with the point E in the first case, and with the point Q in the latter case, a condition often adopted by M. BOUGUER, the stabilities will be in the proportion of the lines WE to XQ, or in a triplicate ratio of the lines BA, CH. Such is the result of the examination proposed, from which the only inference is, that while the 'centre of gravity remains situated in the vertical axis WE,(the position it occupies in vessels of every description,) the line XQ cannot be assumed to measure or estimate the stability and security of a vessel at sea, when inclined to the larger angles from the upright. M. CLAIRBOIS, to illustrate the principles of M. BOUGUER, adopts two instances, which are the same with Case vi. (fig. 9.) and Case vii. (fig. 12.) in these pages. In the former case, the sides coincide with those of an isosceles wedge; the breadth B-A at the water-line being the base, and the angle BWA situated under the water's surface. As the vessel thus formed is -gradually in. clined from the perpendicular, he shews,* that the curve traced by the centre of gravity of the successive volumes immersed is an hyperbola. Of this curve he: calculates the successive radii* CLAIRBOI:S, p. 291. 295. 9,46 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on of curvature, which he demonstrates to increase continually with the inclination of the vessel: he shews, that the centres of curvature thus found,or successive metacentres, according to M. BOUGUER'S construction, ascend as the vessel is inclined; a circumstance which, according to his principle, imparts security from oversetting. On the contrary, in the other instance, when the sides of a vessel are Inclined to an angle which is above the water's surface,(fig. 12.) from a, similar mode of reasoning he concludes, that the metacentre descends as the vessel is more and more inclined; which, according to his proposition, would endanger the safety of the vessel, when inclined to considerable angles. This determination is evidently inconsistent with the solu-* tions of Case vi. and vii. preceding, by which it appears, that the stability acting to restore vessels thus constructed to the upright position, under the conditions that have been stated, will be precisely the same at all equal inclinations from the upright, whether the sides are inclined at an angle beneath or above the water-line; all the other conditions being the same in both cases. The solution of these questions being connected with a prin-. ciple of some consequence in the practice of naval architecture, the preceding observations have been offered with a view of stating distinctlythe opinions which are contradictory to the solutions of Case vi. -and ovii. referring to the authors who have treated on the subject, in order that a judgment may be formed by persons conversant in naval architecture, whether the propositions advancedby M. BOUGUtER and M. CLAIRBOIS, or the solutions of Case vi. and Case vii. here given, may be relied on, as founded on the genuine principles of geometry and mechanics; for error must exist on one side or the other. the Stability of Ships. ?47 But, until the demonstrations of the Cases vi. and VII. are shewn to be erroneous, and reasons are produced in support of M. BouGUER'S propositions, which he has -delivered without any demonstration, it may be allowable to suppose that his opinions are, in these particular instances, ill founded. The same principles are extended by M. BOUGUER *to express a general value of the distance between the metacentre, and the centre of the immersed part of the ship, when inclined to Flu. kXy p any angle: this distance he affirms to be ____f3p t in which expression y and v are the parts of the total ordinate of the water-section, (when the vessel is inclined,) at the distance x, measured on the longer axis from the initial point;, the proportion of y and v being determined by a line drawn parallel to the axis through the centre of gravity of the section; and p is put for the volume immersed. When the centre of gravity is situated in the line QX, (fig. i6.) and the angle of inclination very small, the point of intersection of the lines CH, ch, will bisect the ordinate CH: in this case the vessel floats permanently with the line QX vertical, and consequently with the line WE, or plane of the masts, inclined to the horizon at the angle ASH. But the line QX, consistently with the preceding observations, cannot be applied to measure the stability or security from oversetting of a ship, when the centre of gravity is placed in the line WE; that is, in the plane of masts which divides the vessel into two parts perfectly similar and equal; the only situation which the centre of gravity can occupy, according to any mode of construction hitherto practised.* Traite du Navire, p. 273. f No -demonstration is given by M. Bo u G U ER of this proposition. 248 Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on A few remarks may be added in this place concerning a theorem delivered by M. BOUGUER,* for measuring the stability of vessels when inclined to evanescent angles from the upright. The theorem is this: "When the lengths of vessels " are the same, the stabilities are as the cubes of the breadths.. This theorem seems at first view to stand independent of, and not to require,; any subsequent explanation: the author immediately applies it to the discussion of some points respecting the stability of vessels. If any person, relying on the author for the truth, of this theorem, should. only pay attention, to the proposition as it is here expressed, he would entertain an opinion on the subject of stability which is altogether erroneous. M. BOuGUER,t in a subsequent page, gives a satisfactory account of the limitations and restrictions under which the theorem in question is to be understood. He observes, that a restriction ought to be applied to the conditions of this proposition, in order to insure the exact .correctness of it; which is, that the whole weight of the vessel shall be concentered in the centre of gravity of the displaced volume;, a condition which may be deemed amongst the most extreme cases that can be devised, and such as is rarely known to exist.d The vessel's centre of gravity not being supposed coincident with the centre of the displaced volume; M. BOUGUER ? gives the true measure of stability when the angles of inclination are* Traite da Navire, p. 299. t Ibid. p. 299 and 3oo. t In vessels of burden, the freights of which consist principally of iron, or other metallic bodies, or blocks of stone, the vessel's centre of gravity may be so depressed as to coincide with, or even to be situated under, the centre of the immersed volume. But such a disposition causes many inconveniences in the ship's sailing; and is never adopted when it is possible to raise the centre of gravity to a higher position. j Traiti du Navire, p. 300. the Stability of Ships. qJ9 evanescent; the only objection to which is, that it stands in the author's page as being explanatory, and illustrative of a proposition before delivered: whereas, it is in factthe real proposition for measuring the horizontal stability of vessels; the proposition it is intended to explain being a particular case of it, and requiring a condition which scarcely ever takes place in the practice of constructing and adjusting ships for sea. CASE VIII. The sides of a vessel are parallel to the masts above the water-line, (fig. vi.) and project outward beneath it. In the second Case, (fig. 4.) the sides project outward above the water-line, and are parallel to the masts under it. In Case viii. the disposition and form of the sides are the reverse of the form according to Case II. If, therefore, the angle of projection of the sides under the water, according to Case viii. should be equal to the angle at which the sides project above the water, according to Case ii. the other conditions being the same, the stabilities* of the two vessels will be equal, at all equal inclinations from the quiescent position. The solution of this case must of consequence be precisely the same with the solution of CASE II. and need not be here repeated. CASE IX. The sides of a vessel are parallel to the masts above the water-line, (fig. 18.) and are inclined inward beneath it. In this case, the position of the sides is the reverse of that which is described in Case III. (fig. 6.) If, therefore, the angles at which the sides are inclined inward, according to Case ix. e Proposition subjoined to Case vi X. page 237. MDU~XC VIII K k 250 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on under the water-line, should be equal to the angle at which the sides are inclined inward above the water-line, according to Case iiI. all the other conditions being the same, the stabilities of the two vessels will be equal, at all equal inclinations from the upright. The solution of Case ix. is therefore to be derived from that of Case iii. GASE X. The sides of a vessel coincide with the surface of a cylinder, the vertical sections being equal circles. Let QBOAH (fig. 19.) represent a vertical section of the vessel. The surface of the water coincides with the line BA, when the vessel floats upright. Suppose the vessel to be inclined from the quiescent position, through an angle ASH, so that the water's surface shall intersect the vessel's, when inclined, in the line CH. Bisect the line BA in D, and the line CH in Y ; and, through the points D and Y, draw OD, FY, perpendicular to the lines BA, CH, respectively, and meeting, when produced, in the point M, which is the centre of the circle. The angle ASH is the inclination of the vessel from the perpendicular; and, being the inclination of the lines BA, CH, which are perpendicular to the lines OM, FM, respectively, the inclination of the lines OM, FM, or the angle DMF, will be equal to the angle ASH. Let E be the centre of gravity of the area BOA, representing the volume displaced, when the vessel floatsupright, and quiescent. In the line MF, take MQ equal to ME; Q will be the centre of gravity of the area CFH, representing the volume displaced when the vessel is inclined. Let G be the centre of gravity of the vessel; and, through E, draw ET perpendicular to MF; and, through G, draw GZ perpendicular to MFY intersecting that line in the the Stability of Shi.Ps. 251 point Z: GZ is the measure of the vessel's stability. For, since Q is the centre of gravity of the volume immersed, when the vessel is inclined, and the line MF is drawn through it, perpendicular to the water's surface CH, QM will be the direction in which the pressure of the fluid acts, to turn the vessel round an axis passing through G; and GZ, being the perpendicular distance of this line from the centre of gravity, will be the measure of the vessel's stability. Let the sine of the angle of the vessel's inclination ASHI, or OME, be represented by the letter s to radius = -: by the properties of the circle ME = 2DA3 BA3 if 3xarea BOA 12X area BOA therefore, BA be made= t, ME BOA and ET t3 S iZ X area BOA' The area representing the volume displaced is here con-sidered as entirely circular: but if it should be of that form only to the extent of the sides *AH, BC, the remaining part of the area being of any other figure, and the whole area under water should be denoted by V, the line ET will be t3s area BOA t3s =z areaBOAX r or ET = Let GE be denoted by d; then ER =ds, and RT, or the measure of the vessel's stability ?GZ It3S ds.* Proposition and observations in pages 213, 214. t In this expression for the measure of stability, s is the sine of the angle of the vessel's inclination, whatever be its magnitude: this value, for the stability of vessels which have a circular form, is the same with that which M. BoU GUEtR gives for vessels of any form, when the angles of inclination are evanescent, the breadths at the water-line being t, and the other conditions the same; from which circumstance, the following remarkable conclusion is inferred: if the measure of stability should be calculated for finite angles of inclination, by the rule M. Bou GU ER has given for theKk 2 Ace Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on Let t coo, s sin. i? to rad. = I. d= 13, V z 3600. According tothese conditions, GZ 2.63. If, therefore, the vessel's weight should be iooo tons, the stability will be equivalent to the weight of iooo tons, acting to turn the vessel at the distance of 2.63 from the axis passing through G. or equivalent to a weight of 52.5 tons, acting at a distance of so from the axis. CASE Xi. The vertical sections of a vessel are terminated by the arcs of a conic parabola. Let the parabola BLA (fig. 20.) represent a vertical section of a vessel, floating with the axis DL perpendicular to BA, which coincides with the water's surface. G is the centre of gravity of the vessel. Suppose a ship, so formed, to be inclined from the upright through a given angle MOI. The breadth BA, and depth from the water-line, DL, being given, it is required to construct the measure of the vessel's stability. The principal parameter being given from the conditions of the construction, from the vertex L set off LF, equal to a fourth part of the parameter: F is the focus of the parabola. In the line LF, take LI to LF, as the tangent of the given angle MOI to radius; and, in the line LI, take LX to LI, in the same proportion of the tangent of the angle MOI to radius. Through the point X, draw XV perpendicular to XL, intersecting the curve in the point V; set off LN equal to XL: Join NV, which produce indefinitely, in the direction NVW; angles ofinclination that are evanescent, the stability of all vessels, at equal iinclinar tions, thus calculated, whatever be their forms, would be the same as if the vertical sections were circular; the breadths at the water-line, position of the centres of gravity and other elements, being the same. the Stability of Ships. 253 NW is a tangent to the curve-in the point V: through the point V, draw VK parallel and equal to DL; and, through the point K, draw CH parallel to NW: let DL be divided into five equal parts, and let LE be taken equal to three of those parts: make VQ equal to LE; and through Q draw Pr perpendicular to NW; through G draw GZ perpendicular to rP: GZ is the measure of the vessel's stability, when inclined from the upright through the given angle MOI. The demonstration follows. Through E, draw ET perpendicular to rP; and, through G, draw GR parallel to rP; let the parameter of the curve be denoted by p. By the construction, LX: LI : : LI : LF.: tang. MOI to rad. therefore LX: LF :: tang. MOI: rad. and and LX: 4LF :: tang. MOI : 4rad7 By the properties of the curve, LX: XV::XV :4LF wherefore LX: 4LF: : LX: XV$. But LX: 4LF: :tang MOI :4rad. therefore LX-: XVZ: :tang.' MOI :+4rad.1 and LX: XV:: tang. MOI: 2rad. or, since LX = XXN _TXN: XV: : tang. MOI 2rad. or XN: XV:: tang. MOI: rad. but, by the construction, XN: XV:: tang. XVN: rad. consequently tang. XVN is equal to the tangent of MOI to the same radius; and therefore the angle XVN is equal to the angle MOI, or the given angle of the vessel's inclination from the upright. Moreover, since it appears from the construction, that the angle XVN is equal to the angle NrP, NrP is equal to the vessel's inclination from the upright, and because the 5 4s Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisitions on line BA is parallel to XV, and the line CH parallel to NW, by the construction, it follows, that the angle ASH is equal to the angle XVN; wherefore the angle ASH is also equal to the angle MOI, or the given angle of inclination from the upright. VK being parallel to DL, and therefore a diameter of the curve to the point V, and CH being drawn parallel to NVW, which is a tangent to the curve in the point V, it follows, that VK bisects the line CH in the point K; KH therefore will be an ordinate to the diameter VK: and, since VK is by construction equal to DL, and DL, VK, are abscissae of the segments BLA, CVH, respectively, it is known, from the properties of the figure, that the area of the segment BLA is equal to the area of the segment CVH; and consequently the area of the figure ASH will be equal to the area of the figure BSC. And since, when the vessel floats upright, the line AB coincides with the water's surface, and the area of the segment ALB is equal to the area of the segment CVH, it follows, that when the vessel is inclined from the perpendicular, through an angle ASH, equal to the given angle MOI, the surface of the water will intersect the vessel in the line CRI.. Moreover, since LE is to LD as 3 to a, by the construction, and VQ is to VK in the same proportion of 3 to j, by the properties of the figure, E is the centre of gravity of the area BLA, and Q is the centre of gravity of the area CVII, which represents the total volume displaced, when the vessel is inclined through an angle ASH, or MOIL. and the line rQP being, by construction, drawn perpendicular to the water's surface CH, will be a vertical line passing through the centre of gravity Q of the volume displaced CVH: and GZ, drawn through the centre of gravity G, perpendicular to this line, will be the measure of the Stability of dps. 255 the vessel's stability, when inclined from the perpendicular through the given angle MOIL From the preceding construction and demonstration, a property of stability is inferred, which may be expressed in the following proposition. If the vertical sections of a vessel are terminated by the arcs of a conic parabola, and the sides of another vessel are parallel to the plane of the masts, both above and beneath the water-line, the stabilities of the two vessels will be equal at all equal inclinations from the upright, if the breadths at the water-line BA, and all the other conditions, are the same in both cases. It is thus demonstrated: For brevity, let the angle of inclination from the upright, or the angle ASH, be denoted by the letter S; let BA -t and LD = a: rad. 1. From the preceding construction and demonstration, it appears that XV: XN:: i : tang. S, and by the properties of the figure jXN: XV :: XV : p, joining these ratios : 2 ::XV:pxtang.S. Wherefore XV =_ p x tang. S 2 and XL vPxg LN p also, since XV: NV:: cos. S: 1, NV= XV = pXtang.S* Cos. S 2 X Cos. S and because LD = VK = a, and LE = VQ 3a and the angle VQP = ASH = MOI, it follows that VP_ and therefore NP=NV+vp _P x tang.S + 3a xSsin S zXCos. S + S 256 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on NP P x a P xsec." 3. therefore, rN = N P n + 5 TTI~~~~~TP~ Xsec.,S a PxaneS and LrrNLN + Pxtang.S and, since LE= rE = Pxzcsec.S p x tang. S 2 4or rE _ r x sec. S + 1, and, since the angle 4 ErT = S, ET p x sin S X sec.' S + i, or ET x tanS.X Cos. S + sec. S. 4 This is the value of the line ET, when the area representSing the volume immersed is terminated throughout by the parabolic arc, the said area being -6or .x BA x DL; I 6p ~~~~~~~~~~3 but, if that form should extend to the sides AH, BC, only, the remaining part of the volume immersed being of any other figure,* and this entire volume should be of any magnitude V, the value of ET corresponding will be P x tang. S x t3 9 ~~~4 6pV x cos. S + sec. S, or ET=t3 X tang. S x cos. S + sec. S. And, 24V since ER = d x sin. S, TR, or the measure of the yessel's stability, GZ_ t XtaVg S X cos. S + sec. S -d x sin. S; precisely the same quantity whichmeasures the stability at the angle of inclination S,t when the sides are parallel to the masts above and beneath the water-line: a coincidence not a little remarkable, and such as would not probably have been supposed to exist, except from the evidence of demonstration. From this proposition it is inferred, that if the sides of a * See pages 2 13, 214. t Case x. page z i6 the Stability of Ships. 257 vessel coincide with the arcs of the conic parabola, and the sides of another vessel coincide with the arcs of another conic parabola, whatever be the form thereof, varying according to the parameter, the weights of the vessels, breadths at the water-line, and the other conditions being the same in both cases, the stabilities of the two vessels, at all equal angles of inclination, will be equal. If, for instance, the forms of two vessels should be such as are represented in Tab. XII. fig. 21. and fig. 22. the weights and other conditions being the same, the stabilities of each of these vessels will be equal to that of a vessel PBQFAK, the sides of which are plane surfaces, parallel to the masts. The propositions immediately preceding, relate to the conic or Apollonian parabola: they have been inserted, with a view of establishing and extending the theory of stability. It may also be remarked, that the sides of vessels are in some instances constructed nearly of these forms; for the same reasons, it may be not altogether useless, to examine on what principle the stability of vessels is to be investigated, when the forms of the sections are parabolic curves of the higher orders, such as are represented in fig. 23. The line cBCO is a conic or Apollonian parabola, d BDO is a cubic, and e BEO a biquadratic parabola. fBFO (fig. 23.) is a parabola of 8 dimensions,,and gBGO a parabola of 50 dimensions, which are drawn from a geome, trical scale, in order to give a true representation of the forms of these curves. The general equation, determining the relation between the abscissae and ordinates of any parabola, of the dimensions n, is ylp lni x x, if the ordinates are drawn perpendicular to the axis of the curve; andy =a +px + qx'+ rx', &c. + vxe MDCCXCVIII. L I 258 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on if the ordinates are drawn parallel to the axis<; y and x signifying the ordinate and corresponding abscissa; the other letters denoting constant or invariable quantities, to be determined by the properties of the figures. In these figures, it is observable, that the breadths toward the vertex 0, are always greater in the curves which are of the higher dimensions; and, as the dimensions are continually increased, the figure approaches more nearly to a rectangular parallelogram,* with which it * The radius of curvature of the conic parabola at the vertex (fig. 23.) is half the principal parameter; but, in all the parabolas of the higher orders, the radius of curvature at the vertex is infinite. Suppose x to represent the abscissa, or distance of the ordinate y from the vertex, measured along the axis of the curve: as x increases from o, the radius of curvature decreases till it becomes a minimum, and then increases: a difficulty seems to arise respecting the magnitude and variation of the radius of curvature, when, the dimensions being increased sine limite, the form of the curve approaches continually, and ultimately coincides with, the rectangular parallelogram. If the equation of the curve be yfn = n1 x xAC where p represents the parameter, the radius of curvature of the curve at the extremity of an ordinate y, of which the 3 2 nf-2 2fl-2 1 abscissa is x, will be found p x _ n which quantity n xn-1XPn -1 w hen p 2-2 h la r is a minimum whenx X 3_ |~ . consequently the leastradiusofcur.. 2 vature itself,, or r -p X, A and, when n is increased sine Zn ~ ~ 2n X 3fnl1 . l~~~~~~flimitte, theabscissa corresponding to the least radius of curvature, or x = p X V 2 x n and the least radius itself, or r -p X 7, both of which quantities are evanescent, Zn shewing that if the dimensions of the parabola are increased sine limite, the curvature at the extremity of the ordinate, when the abscissao, is infinite, the radius of cur vature being nothing, as it ought to be, at the point H of the parallelogram B3HiOf the Stability of Shipse 259 ultimately coincides, when the dimensions are increased sine limite. This extreme case has relation to the subject of stability: for, whatever may be the effect of giving to the sides of ships the forms of the several higher orders of parabolas, it is certain, that as the dimensions of these curves are increased, the stability will approach to that which is the consequence of making the sides parallel to the masts; but it has been shewn, that when the sides coincide with the form of a conical paraconsidered as a parabolic curve of infinite dimensions, the two portions of the curve BR, HO, (fig. 23.) being inclined at a right angle, when coincident with the sides of a rectangular parallelogram: but, since the curvature is nothing at the vertex 0, the abscissa being then o, and before the abscissa has increased to -any finite line, the cur-vature at the extremity of the corresponding ordinate OH is infinite; and since the curvature between the points 0 and H must necessarily pass through all the intermediate gradations of magnitude, it becomes a question to define the abscissa and corresponding ordinate, when the radius of curvature is a finite line: zdly, when it becomes evanescent; and, lastly, when it is again infinitely great. By referring to the preceding expressions for the abscissa and corresponding radius of curvature, it is found, that if p represents the parameter, and x is made _ -3 , (the number n denoting the dimensions of the curve,) when n is increased sine limite, the radius of curvature will be greater than any line that can be assigned: and such is the curvature of any portion of the line OH, between the points 0 arid H. 2dly, if r is = , the radius of curvature will be -= p, the ordinate approximating to equality with the line OH. 3dly, if X = -, the radius of curvature will be smaller than any finite line: and, lastly, if x = p, or any finite line, the radius of curvature will be greater than any assignable line: which conclusions are immediately inferred from the equation expressing the 2fl-2 2n-2 t3 radius of curvature, or r p x , -, , when the number of di7ZX 3Z-I x p X Z n mensions n is increased sine limile, these successive changes in the radius of curvature taking place while the abscissa x is increased from o to any finite magnitude. L1I e60 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on bola*, the stabilityf is the same as when the sides are plane surfaces, parallel to the plane of the masts. It is inferred that if the sides of a vessel are formed to coincide with a parabola of the lowest, and the sides of another vessel with a parabolic curve of the highest dimension, all the other conditions being the same, the stabilities of the two vessels will be equal in these two extreme cases. In proceeding to ascertain the stability of vessels, the vertical sections of which coincide with any parabolic curve, the -rigid strictness of geometrical inference cannot be well preserved, when the oblique segments are objects of consideration, on account of the complicated properties of the figures.. But, in these and similar cases, methods of approximation may be employed, by which the stability corresponding to any given figure of the sides may be inferred, to a degree of exactness exceeding any that can be necessary in practice. These methods of approximation are either such as are required for the mensuration of curvilinear areas, or geometrical constructions which exhibit the lineal measures of stability not strictly and rigidly true, but approaching, as nearly as may be desired, to the true and correct measures. The methods of approximation to be used for the quadrature of curvilinear spaces, are founded on Sir JsAAC NEWTON'S discovery of a theorem, by which, fromn having given any Case xi* pages 255, 256. t The comparative stability, in this and similar observations, is understood to im. ply, that the vessels are inclined at equal angles of inclination from the upright, all the other conditions (the shape of the sides excepted) being the same. X The areas of any parabolic segments, either direct or oblique, are geometrically quadrable, but, in the oblique segments, the positions of the centres of gravity are not determinable generally by direct methods. the Stability of Ships. 261 number of points situated in the same plane, he could ascertain the equation to the curve which would pass through them all: and, by means of this equation, was enabled to express the ordinate in the curve, corresponding to an abscissa of any given length, as well as the area intercepted between any two of the ordinates. This discovery the author himself considered amongst his happiest inventions. Amongst the various uses of this theorem, that of determining by approximation the areas of curvilinear spaces is not the least considerable: for, by this means, the fluents of fluxional quantities, not discoverable by any known rules of direct investigation, are found, to a degree of exactness fully sufficient for any practical purpose, and with very little trouble of computation. Mr. STIRLING, in his treatise intitled Metbodus diferentialis, has inserted a table for measuring curvilinear spaces termi, nated by parabolic curves, from having given 3, 5, 7, or 9 equidistant ordinates, and the abscissa on which they are erected. The measures of the areas thus obtained are, under certain conditions hereafter stated, not approximations, but geometrin cally and strictly correct: the approximate values of curvili. near spaces, in general, are obtained from finding the correct areas terminated by parabolic lines which nearly coincide with the said curves, by passing through the extremities of the same ordinates. The subjoined table contains Mr. STIRLING's rules for expressing the areas of curvilinear spaces from the conditions which have been mentioned; also additional rules for measuring the areas which are included between the extremes of 2, 4, 6, or 8 equidistant ordinates : the whole of this table has been recomputed and verified. .262 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on TABLE OF AREAS. Number of equidistant ordinates. Areas. AxR 2 xR 2 A +4 B x R 3 ~~~6 4 x 7A + 32B+C R _ ~ ~ ~ .. 6 i 9A?+75B + So C R z88 41 A + z26B + 27C + 27zD 7 840 XR 8 36799 A + 175z73 B + 648z7 C + 14646i DR 846720 989 A + 5888 B_928 C + I0496 D 4540oE R 928350 In this table, the letter A denotes the sum of the first and last ordinate of the number opposite to it in the first column: B is the suIn of the second and last but one: C is the sum of the third and last but two, and so on. The extreme letter, suppose D, (as in the rule opposite 8 ordinates,) is the sum of the two middle ordinates, if the number of ordinates is even; or the extreme letter, suppose D, (as in the rule opposite 7 ordinates,) is the middle ordinate alone, if the number of ordinates is odd. R is the entire length of the abscissa, which is always equal to the common interval between the ordinates, multiplied by the number of ordinates diminished by unity. Let the area to be measured be terminated by the curve line ABCD, &c. (Tab. XIII. fig. 24.): AlI' is an abscissa, on which a number of equidistant ordinates AA', BB', CC', &c. are erected at right angles. If ABCD, &c. represents a parabolic line of any dimension, suppose n, the relation between the ordinates and abthe Stability of Ships. -263 scissoe being expressed by the equation y a +px + q a?+ txa, &c. + u n, (in which case, the ordinates are drawn parallel to the axis of the curve,) a measure of the area contained between the extremes of n + 1 ordinates. will be obtained with geometrical exactness, by computing from the rule in the table which is opposite the number of ordinates n + 1, supposing the table to extend to that number: but if, as it usually happens in cases which practically occur, that the nature of the curve is unknown, or the conditions in other respects different from those which are required for the mensuration of the area with perfect correctness, it becomes a question, which particular rule in the table should beadopted for inferring an approximate value of the area, since an exact quadrature is not obtainable. For this purpose, there are several reasons for preferring the rules opposite the number of ordinates 2, 3, and 4 to the others, which require a greater number of ordinates; the common distance between them being the same. In the first place, the rules here pointed out are far less troublesome in the application; a circumstance which ought to have weight, although of less importance than another consideration, which is, that the results derived from these rules, particularly from the two latter, will in general approximate as nearly to the true value, sometimes more nearly, than those which are obtained by calculating from the other more complicated theorems, unless the curve should happen to be such as admits of being correctly measured by any of the rules requiring a greater number of ordinates;: a' circumstance not likely to occur in practical mensurations. Let it be proposed to measure by approximation any curvi-g linear space AA' I' IA (fig. 24.) For brevity, let the successive ordinates AA', BB', CC', &c. be denoted by the letters a, b, co 264 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on &c. respectively; also, let the common distance between the oredinates (fig.23.) or A' B' B'C',= C'D' be = r: according to the theorem for measuring the area contained between two ordinates, or A x R, the curve line AB is supposed to coincide with the right line AB which joins the extremities of it; the space measured by this rule is the trapezium AA'B'BA; and, since A = a + b, and R = r, the area of the trapezium, or A~~~~~~ A R a + b x. 2 According to the rule opposite 3 ordinates, the curve line ABC is supposed to coincide with a portion of the conic parabola, the axis of which is parallel to the ordinates. And since, R by this rule, the area = A + 4 B x 6, in which expression A = a + c, B b, and R = 2 r; by substituting these values, the area AA'C'CA=a+4b+cx 3. If the curve ABC 3 should actually be a portion of the conic parabola, the given ordinates being parallel to the axis of the curve, the area AA'C'CA will be measured by this rule with exactness absolutely perfect; and, the more nearly the curve which terminates the area, approaches to the form of the conic parabola, the more nearly will the result of calculating by this rule approximate to the true value of the area. But it is evident, that since in this approximation, the arc of a conic parabola is drawn through the points A, B, C, being the same points which terminate the ordinates of the given curve, the difference between the parabolic area and that which is given must, in most (except extreme) cases, be next to an insensible quantity, when applied to practical mensuration. In the mensuration of areas by the rule opposite 4 ordinates, tihe Stability ofs Slips. 265 a parabolic curve line is supposed to be drawn through the points A, B, C, D, of the 3d dimension; such as the arc of a cubic parabola, the ordinates of which are parallel to the axis of the curve, and the area terminated by this curve line is assumed to approximate to the given area AA' D'DA: by this rule, the R area = A + 3 B x in which expression A =-a + d, B = b + ca and R 3 r, which being substituted for their respective values, -the area AA' D'DA -a + ab+3c+d . In order to bring these rules into a form convenient for pracm tical use, let it be proposed to measure the area AA' G'GA (fig. 24. intercepted between the extremes of 7 ordinates. 1st. Suppose the right lines AB, BC, CD, &c. to be assumed, instead of the curve lines AB, BC, CD, &c. as terminations of the: space to be measured: then the area AA'G'GA will be equal to the sum of six trapeziums; AA' B'B, BB'C'C, CC'D'D and so on. The area of the trapezium AA'B'B = a + b x r, by the rule opposite 2 ordinates: by the same rule, the area of the trapezium BB'C'C b + c x ; the area of the trapezium 2 CCC'D'D c + d x and so on. By adding these six separate areas, the sum will be the area of the space AA'G'GA _a+ 2 b + 2c + 2d +2e+ f+gx. Telawofcontinuation for a greater number of ordinates is obvious. This rule is precisely the same with that which is given by M. BOUGUER, in his work entitled " Trait" du Navire," * under a form somewhat different: his rule is this; from the sum of all the ordinates subtract j of the sum of the first and last; the Page XiA.c M])DCXcVIlI. Mm 266 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on result multiplied into the common distance between the ordinates will be the exact area of the figure, considered as con-. sisting of trapezia, and an approximate value of the curvilinear area in which the said trapezia are inscribed. This rule he pro-. fesses not to be a very correct approximation, but such as may be deemed sufficient for most practical mensurations. It must be acknowledged, that in mensurations independent of others, the errors arising from this rule are often not considerable, (in many cases they are very small;) but, considering that in naval mensurations, areas obtained by approximation are necessarily the data from which other results are to be inferred, also by approximation, a doubt may arise whether the. errors thus accumulated may not, in some cases, become too great; at least it may not be improper to be provided with rules which may be relied on, as approximating more nearly to the true measures of areas. Let the same area be measured by the rule opposite 3 ordinates, according to which it is supposed that the curve line ABC coincides with the arc of the conic parabola. By this rule, the area AA' C'CA= xa +: also the area 3 CC'E'EC =c + 4 d + ex and the area EE'G'GE 3 e + 4f + g x Z.: adding these three areas together, the sum is the area AA'G'GA a +4+b+2c+ d4d+ e+42+e r This rule is the same with that which Mr. SIMPsoN has demonstrated in his Essays, page 109, from the properties of the conic parabola, perhaps not noticing that it was to be found in Mr. STIRLING's table of areas. tie Stability of Ships. 267 Mr. CHAPMAN, an eminent author on the subject of naval ,architecture,* applies this theorem to naval mensurations, as a substitute, and certainly an useful one, to the less perfect rules which are employed -for this purpose, inn the works of M. BouGUER and other authors. The example by which Mr. CHAPMAN illustrates the use of this rule is the same with that which is given in Mr. SIMPSON's Essays. This approximation to the measures of areas being applicable* The following observation on this theorem is inserted in the Report from the Committee of the French Royal Marine Academy, who were appointed to examine the translation of Mr. CH A PM A N'S Treatise on Naval Architecture, by M. VI AL DE CLAIP.ISS; this report is prefixed to the French edition of Mr. CHAPMAN'S work. 'ICe celebre constructeur commence par donner une nouvelle methode de calcul de dedplacement, qii sans etre beaucoup plus longue que celle que l'on emploie com"munement, donne un resultat infiniment plus exact. On considere ordinairement "les parties curvilignes des plans de flottaisons, ou de gabarits, entre les extremitds "des ordonnees, comme des droites; M. CHAPMAN les regarde comme des parties "paraboliques; et, de la nature de cette section conique, et du trapeze, il tire une "expression sur laquelle il fonde un calcul assez simple," &c. A comparison of the results derived from this rule, and from that which is em. ployed by M. BoUGUEa, does not seem to confirm the opinion of the very superior exactness which the committee here attribute to the former rule: that it is more exact there is no doubt, especially when the curvature is at all irregular in respect to its variation, and the results inferred are data on which other computations are to be founded; but, in many of the cases which occur in practical mensurations, the latter rule approximates to the required results sufficiently near the truth, as will appear by the instances in the subsequent pages. The expression (" une nouvelle methode" cannot be understood to mean a rule of computation newly invented, but one which Mr. C H A P M A N has first applied to naval mensurations. In this sense, the theorem inserted in the z65th and z68th pages of these papers would be entitled to the appellation of " a new method :" but it has already been shewn, that the three rules here described, and employed in the computations which follow, are only particular cases of the general method demonstrated in the works of Sir I.NEWTON, STIRLING, 1 M P 3 ON, and other authors.Mm 2 e68 Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on only when the number of given equidistant ordinates is odd, to obtain the area when the number of ordinates is even, another rule, to be employed either singly, or in conjunction with the former, may be selected from Mr. STIRLING'S table of areas. It is that which stands opposite 4 ordinates. Let it be proposed to measure the area AA' G'GA. According to this rule, the area AA' D'DA =a+b+c+d x also the area DD'G'GA d + 3 e + S3f+g x these two areas being added together, the sum will be the area or AA'G'GA=a + 3b +3c+ 2d+3e + 3f +g i . When the number of given equidistant ordinates is small, these theorems will be most conveniently used in the forms here given; but, when the ordinates are numerous, the trouble of arithmetical computation will be considerably abridged, by employing them according to the general rules inserted underneath. These theorems for approximating to the values of areas, may be applied, with advantage, to the integration of fluxional quan-w tities, the fluents of which cannot be obtained by direct methods; or, if obtained, requiring very long and troublesome calculations.* Suppose z to represent the abscissa of a curve, on which the or. * On this principle, the rules of approximation here given are applicable to deter-mine the positions of the centres of gravity, both of areas and solid spaces. If y is put to represent the ordinate erected perpendicular to an abscissa, at the distance z from the initial point thereof, the fluent of yzz (fig. 24.) will be the sum of the products arising from multiplying each ordinate into the small increment a:, and also into the distance z from the initial point. And, since the area intercepted between the ordinates AA' and y is the fluent of y., it follows, that the distance of the centre of gravity of this curvilinear space from the ordinate AA', measured on the abscissa A'T' is fluent yza ~iet~.The appoxmate v~.lues of these fluents are obtained from the Rule s i.i * the Stability of Ships. 269 dinates (expressed by Z, a general term or function of z), a, b, c, d, &c. are erected at right angles, and at intervals each of which is =r , so that when z = o, Z -a: when tz = r, Z b: when Z = 2 r, Z = c, and so on. If innumerable ordinates or values of Z be supposed drawn between each of those which are given at the common very small interval a, the sum of the products arising from multiplying each of the ordinates into the increment z, that is, the fluent of Zz, will be found, by approximation, according to the three following rules; which may -be not improperly termed, rules for approximating to the integral values of fluxional quantities. According to RULE I. S Fluent of Zx = pP x r; in which expression, P the sum of all the ordinates a + b + c + d, &c. S = the sum of the first and last ordinate. r = the common distance between the ordinates. RULE II. Fluent of Z = S + 4 P + 2 Q A3 3 in which' expression, S = the sum of the first and last ordinate. P = the sum of the 'd, 4th, 6th, 8th, &c. ordinate. -Q _the sum of the 3d, Sth, 7th, 9th, &c. ordinate, (the last excepted.) r the common distance between the ordinates. and I I i.; and the positions of the centres of gravity are thus determined according to the methods of computation employed in the subsequent pages. The position of the centre of gravity. in solid bodies, is determined by a similar application of these rules. '~70 Mr. ATWOOD's Disquisition on RULE III. Fluentof Zz=S p+Q x 3r; in which expression, S =,the sim of the first and last ordinate. Pthe sum ofthe th, 7th, xoth, i3th, &c. ordinate, (the last excepted.) Q = the sum of the ad, Ed, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, &c. ordinate. ret the common -distance between the ordinates. It is to he observed, that the first of these rules approximates to the fluent, whatever be the number of given ordinates. The second rule only requires that the number of ordinates shall be odd. To apply the third rule, it is necessary that the number of ordinates given shall be some number in the progression 4, 7, 1o, i3d, &c. that is, the number of ordinates must be a multiple of 3 increased by unity. But, in every. case, the approximate fluent may be obtained, either from the Rule ii. or the Rule iii. or by employing both rules conjointly. Before these theorems are applied to practical mensurations in naval architecture, it may be satisfactory to examine, by a few trials, to what degree of exactness they approximate to the correct values of curvilinear spaces. This will be known, if the area of some curve, which is exactly quadrable by other geometrical rules, be measured by them. Such as a parabolic figure of which the equation is y8 = p7 x X being the abscissa coincident with the axis, and y the corresponding ordinate perpendicular to it. The semi-area of this parabola (fig. 2N5, 26.) is known to be xy x , and the curve is termed a parabola of 8dimen. sionso the Stability of Ships. 227 1 OD is an abscissa, being a portion. of the axis of this curve, and the parameter is assumed -OD. If, therefore, an ordi... nate BD, or DA, is drawn through thepoint D perpen'dicular to DO; the lines DB,DO, and DA, will all be equal. Let BD be divided into lo equal parts, * considered in this instance as an abscissa, on which, at the points of division, the several ordinates are erected perpendicular to BD, denoted in the figure by the letters a, b, c, d, &c. If BA is assumed = 100 equal parts, DB, DO, are each = o, and the common interval between the ordinates _ A; the numerical values of the successive ordinates a, ba, c, &c. are expressed in the annexed table. a = 50.0000 According to the Rule -i. makingb = ~o~oo0 the sum of all the ordinates, or P C ;-499999 =466.; 341, the sum of the first and d 49.996 e Iflast ordinate, or S = o5: r = = the e 49.9672. f =_ 49.8047 common distance of the ordinates. g _ 49. 1 602 The area BDO P-? X r b a-47-1I75 a i = 41.6113 2205.670 k = 28.4766 correct-areaL?-Z. =2222.222 1I= c>.oo . 90.0000 9 Sum of all the Differencet or error of ordinates 466.1341 the approximation 16=55* Any line being assumed in a curve as an abscissa, lines drawn parallel to each other, and intercepted between, the abscissa;and the curve, are termed ordinates. To exemplify these rules for approximating to the areas of curvilinear spaces, it was necessary to consider the ordinates as being drawn in some cases parallel, and in others perpendicular, to the axis. t It must not be concluded, from this instance, that the errors in measuring curvilinear areas by the Rule i. will be usually so great as i6 parts in z2:zz. In applying the Rule I. to this parabolic space, the quick variation of curvature in some parts of the curve, causes the space so measured to deviate more from the truth than would happen in ordinary cases, such as commonly occur in practical subjects. If, instead of 272 MMr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on If the same area is measured by the Rule iI. the process will be as underneath: Sum of all the ordinates = 466.1341 Sum of the first and last, or S = 5o?ooo? Sum of the 2d, 4th, 6th, &c. or P = 225.3955 S + P = 275.3955 275.3955 Sum of the 3d, 5th, 7th, &c. (except the last) or Q = 190.7386 and rbeing= s,theareaBDO S+4P+2Qx = 2221.765 3 Correct area = 2222.222 Difference or error of the'approximation = .457 Let the same area be measured by the Rule iii. the area DOKI, between the two ordinates a and b, being = S x 50 250, the remaining area, from the ordinate b to the ordinate I= O, will be obtained fromn the following computation: The sum of all the ordinates = 416.1341 Sum of the first and last, reckoning b the first, and the last I = o or S = 50.ooo? Sum of the 4th, 7th, ioth, &c. (b being the ist.) or P = 97.o847 147.0847 Sum of the 2d, 3d, 5th, 6th, &c. from b, or Q = 269.0494 the total area = DBO, (fig. 25.) a portion of it, which is contained between the ordinates a and g, should be measured, the area, computed from either of the three rules, would deviate very little from the truth, as appears from the following results. Areas contained between the ordinates a and g, computed by Rule i. Rule it. Rule xxI. Areas 1496.74 1497.17 1497.13 Correct area 1497. 20 1497.20 1497.20 Difference or error of approximation .46 .03 .07 If the rule in the table of areas opposite 7 ordinates should be applied to measure the area between the ordinates a and g, (fig. 25.) the result would be geometrically correct. the Stability of Ships. z73 And, since r = , the area between the ordinates band1=S+P+ 3Qx 1971220 Area IKOD between the ordinates a and b 250.000 area BDO =2221.220 Correct area BDO 2222.222 Difference or error of the approximation 0oo0 In applying these rules, it is necessary to observe, that if the ordinates are drawn perpendicular to the axis of the curve, whenever the area to be measured, or any part of it, is adjacent to the vertex 0, the area found by these rules will be the least exact: in such cases, it will be requisite to assume an abscissa near the vertex 0, perpendicular to the axis: by erecting equidistant ordinates upon it,parallel to the axis, the area will be found, with the same exactness as in the other cases, which will appear by the following computations. DOA (fig. 26.) is a semiparabola, similar and equal to DOB. Let the line DO -o be divided into io equal parts, each =my; and, through the points of division, let the successive ordinates b, c, d, &c. be drawn perpendicular to DO: according to the preceding observations, if the entire area DOA should be computed by either of the three rules, the result would be less -exact than in the former cases. To obtain an approximate value of the area, sufficiently near the truth, a portion of the area adjacent to the vertex 0, suppose XEO, is to be separately computed. If OX be _ io, the line XE will 40.8890, which being divided into six equal parts, each of them will = 6.815: let the ordinates p, q, s, t, &c. be erected at the points of division, perpendicular to XE: MDCCXCVII . N n S74 Mr. ATwooD's Disquisition on p '-_ 10.0000. q 10.0000 S = 9.9985 Fro9 these ordinates, the area OXE t ~9.9805 X= 7.6'75 is found by the Rule ii. to be v 9.610oo0 59.8390 x 6 _363.1X. W = 0.0000 3 57.2640 For obtaining the area DAXE, the ordinates a, b, c, d, &c. erected on the abscissa DX, are as expressed underneath: a = 50.000 b = 49.346 The area DAXE, between the ordic = _ 448.624 nates a and i, is found by the Rule ii. d 47.820 to be 1858.760 e = 46.9o7 The area between the ordinateiand l,beforefound363.1o0 Ii = 430141 *Entire area DOA =2221.861 i -40.889 Sum of all the C Correct area =2222.222 ordinates = 417041 Difference or error of the -k 37X495 approximation = .361 I = ~0.0001 * If the area between the ordinate a and i had been computed by the Rule i. the result would have been nearly the same. Area between the ordinates a and i, by Rule x, is 1857.98 Area between the ordinates i and I, before found, is 363.10 Entire area DOA 221z.o8 Correct area = 22Z*.2Z Difference or error of the approximation a 1.4 the Stability of ShlPs. e If the total area DOA (fig. 26.) should be measured by one computation, suppose from Rule ii. the Area would be found 2176.875 Correct area X= 2922.222 Difference or error of the approximation = 45.347 If this area should be computed according to the Rule i. the error of the approximation will be found _ _ = 74.54 It is easily shewn, that these errors, which are far from inconsiderable, arise almost wholly from the mensuration of the area OXE, (fig. 26.) adjacent to the vertex 0. For, by measuring that area, according to the Rule ii. from three ordinates I =0, k =37.495, i=t=40.889, the areais found to be 318.115 Whereas the correct area OXE 10 x 40.889 x = 363.457 Difference or error from computing the area OXE by Rule II. =434 Scarcely differing from 45.347 which was found to be the error from computing the entire area DOA by this rule. If the area between the ordinates a and k be measured by the Rule inI. it is found to be -.2055390 Area between the ordinate k and 1, by the properties of the figure, is = 37.495 x 8 x = 166.64o Entire area DOA =2222.030 Correct area = 2222.222 Difference or error of this approximation = .192 From these -computations it is evident, that the rules here given, when employed with attention to the necessary limitaNn 2 276 Mr. ATIWOOD'S Disquisition on tions and restrictions., will approximate to the measures of areas., to a degree of exactness fully sufficient for naval mensurations; and further, will be useful in. determining by approximation'the integral values of fluxional quantities 'in ge-. n~eral, especially those which occur in the investigation of practical subjects. ,CASE XIL. -Still, supposing the vertical sections of a vessel to be equal and similar figures, let BOA (fig. 9?7~.) represent one Iof these sections; the figure being either a curve of the higher dimensions,, or a curve not formed according to any geometrical law, of which the lengths of the ordinates, and of any other lines gven in position, are suposed to be measurable, and given 'in quantity: the angle at which the vessel is inclined from the' upright, and the other necessary conditiosbigkwnits required to find, by geometrical construction, a line which shall approximate nearly to the measure of the vessel's stabi~lity* ist A'fetbod. BA represents the 'Intersection of the water's surface when the vessel floats upright: bisect BA 'in the' point D; and, through D, draw the line'NDM inclined to the line BA at an angle ADM, equal to the given. angle of the vessel's inclination: let the area of the figure ADMh, also the,_area of -the figure BDNc, be found by means of the rules which have been described:suppose the area ADMhb to be greater, than the area BDNc, and let E represent the difference between them:fromi the Stability of Ships. 277 the point D, in the line DA, set off a line * DS=NM x s. ADM' a line CSH, drawn through the point S, parallel to NM, will cut off the area ASH b A, very nearly equal to the area BSCcB; (fig. 27.) consequently, when the vessel is inclined to the given angle, the water's surface will intersect the vessel in the line CSH. (Tab. XIV. fig. 28.) Draw the lines AH, BC. Let M and I be the centres of gravity of the triangles ASH, BSC, respectively ; through M and I, draw Ml, I k, perpendicular to, CH; through 1, t the centre of gravity of the area Ah H, draw h U perpendicular to SH; and, through c, the centre of gravity of the area B cC, draw c R perpendicular to CH : in the line I U, take I L to LU as the area AH b is to the area ASHb ; and, in the line k R, take kK to kR as the area BcC is to the area BSCc. Let G be the centre of gravity of the vessel; and let E be the centre of gravity of the displaced volume when the vessel floats * Let the area ASHb be supposed equal tothe area BSCc, (fig. 27.) and make either of them = A. Let the space DMHS be denoted by M, and the space NDSC by N: then the area ADM h will approximate very nearly to the quantity A + M, and the area BDN to A N. The difference of these areas will be M + N, which is equal to the area NMHC = E = MN x DY; and, consequently, DY and, because DY . DS sin. DSY, or ADM to radius, it will follow that DS = MN i ADM t In these small curvilinear spaces, it will be sufficient to assume the positions of the centres of gravity by estimation, on a supposition that the curve coincides with the arc of a common parabola; in which case, the centre of gravity is situated at the distance of 2 of the abscissa from the ordinate, or chord which joins the extremities of the curve. The position of the abscissa is determined by drawing chords parallel to the given chord, and by drawing a line through the points which bisect the several chords. But, when the curvilinear spaces AH b are extremely small, as represented in this figure, (fig. 28.) no sensible difference in the result will ensue, whether the line bU is drawn through the centre of gravity of this curvilinear space, or through any other point which is adjacent to that centre. M78 l~~r. ATWOOD'S Disquisition o7a upright. Through the point E, draw EV parallel and equal to~ KL-: and, in EVE take Err to EV as the area ASH h is to the area representing the entire volume displaced: through G, draw GU parallel to CH; and, through T, draw TZ perpendiCular to GU, intersecting the lineGU 'in thepoint Z.* GZ is the measure of the vessells stability. 2d Method. Let BOA (fig. !zg. be the given vertical section of a vessel, intersctedby the water's surface BA when float'n upriht. G 'is, the vessel's centre of gravity: E is the centre of gravity of the volume displaced in the upright position. Let the area BOA be measured by eitherof the three Rules, suppose Rule. I.; and through D, the bisecting pits o 3 da DM inclined to the line BA in the angle ADM, equal to the given inclination of the vessel fom the upright. Let the area NOAM be measured, by erecting .equidistant ordinates on the line MN. If the area, so found, is .equal to thle area BOA., the area DBN will be equal to the area. ADM. But, if they are unequal, let the difference be represented by E, and from D., toward the largest of the areas; suppose ADM, set off DS = NM X' l-siADMI ; and, through S. draw CSH parallel to NM. ~The area ASt~h will approximate to equality with the area BSC c; and, consequently, when the vessel 'is in'clined through the given, angle ASH, it will be 'intersected by, the weater's surface in the line CH. On the line, HQ, let the equidistant ordinates. a, b, -c, d, &ic. be erected perpendicular to CHI; and let the comnmon interval between the ordinates be _r. Lhet the measure of the area CLFK be obtained, and-let m be the centre of gravity -of this area: through the point mip -draw mP perpendicular to CH-: let each of te scesv the Stability of Shl2is. 279 given ordinates be multiplied into its perpendicular distance from the ordinate a. The terms resulting will be a x o, b x r, C x 2 r, d x 3 r, &c.;; let these terms be added together, and half the sum of the first and last term being subtracted from the amount, let the result be denoted by the letter C; Cr -area CLFK x KP will be the sum of the products arising from multiplying each evanescent area QX into its distance QK from the first ordinate a. In the line KH, set off a line KI* C r -area CLFK X KP area COAH . Through the point I, draw IT perpen-dicular to CH; and, through the vessel's centre of gravity G, .draw GZ perpendicular to IT. GZ is the measure of the vest sel's stability, when it is inclined from the upright through the angle ASH. In the cases which have preceded, the vertical sections of vessels or segments of vessels, are assumed as equal and similar figures: whereas, in reality, the form and magnitude of the sections are gradually changed, according as they intersect the longer axis at a greater or less distance from the head or stern. The solutions of the preceding cases, and the principles therein established, may be next applied to investigate the stability of vessels, taking into consideration the form and magnitude of each particular section intersecting the longer axis at right angles, and at equal distances; taking into account also, by the methods which have been described, all -the sections inters mediate between those which are given, that may be conceived to intersect the axis at a very small common interval. * Since the Rule i. is employed in obtaining the value of the quantity Cr, according to this computation, the area COAL! ought to be measured by the same rule; in which case, the line KI will be determined nearly with the same exactness as by either of the Rules xI. or i Y, 280 Mr. ATWOODns Disquisition on CASE XIII. The longer axis of a vessel is supposed to be divided into a given number of equal parts, and vertical sections to pass through the several points of division, intersecting the axis at -right angles: the form and magnitude of each particular section being given, with the common distance between them, the positions of the centres of gravity of the vessel, and of the volume displaced, and the distance of the water-section from the keel, being known, it is required to construct the measure of the vessel's stability, when it is inclined from the upright through a given angle. Let QBOAW (Tab. XV. fig. 3o.) represent any vertical section of a vessel; suppose it to be the greatest or principal section: BA is thM breadth of this section at the water-line, when the vessel floats upright: let CH represent the line which coincides with the water's surface, when the vessel is inclined from the, upright through the given angle ASH. From the nature of the conditions, it is sufficiently evident that the point S, in any individual section, will not be determined on the same principle by which the position of that point was fixed according to the former solutions; that is, by making the area ASH equal to the area BSC; because, the volume immersed, and that which is caused to emerge in consequence of the vessel's inclination, will not now be proportional to these areas, as they* are on a supposition that the vertical sections are similar and equal figures. But, in the present case, the vertical sections being different, both in form and magnitude, the water's sur* Seepage zio. the Stability of Ships. 281 face, intersecting the vessel in a plane passing through the line CH, when the vessel is inclined, will so divide the areas of the several sections, that although the area ASH h may not be equal to the area BSCc, in any of the vertical sections, yet the volume immersed, corresponding to, and included between, the areas of the figures ASH b, taken from the head to the stern of the ship shall be equal to the emerged volume which is included between the areas BSCc, in the several sections. Suppose the breadth of any section at the water-line* to be denoted by BA, and to be bisected in the point D. A vertical plane passing through the vessel's longer axis and the centre of gravity G,t and dividing the ship into two parts perfectly similar and equal, will pass through the points D, in all the sections: this plane may be termed the plane of the masts. It is easily shewn, that at whatever distance DS, from the middle point D, the plane of the water's surface, passing throug h the lines CH, intersects the line DA in any one section, when the vessel is inclined through the angle ASH, it will intersect the line DA at the same distance from the middle point D in all the other sections; that is, the distance DS will be the same in all the sections: for, by the supposition, the vessel is inclined round the longer axis, and consequently, the intersection of the two planes, passing through the lines BA and CH, will be parallel * The same letters which are used to denote the several lines, in this vertical section, must be understood to represent the lines similarly drawn in each of the other sections. In the present instance, BA does not represent the breadth at the water's surface, of the principal, or any other individual vertical section, but represents generally that breadth, in any of the sections that may be referred to. t Represented by the point G projected on the plane BOA. The centre of gravity E is, in like manner, here represented by projection orA the same plane. MDCCXCVIII. 0 0 2 82X Mr. ATWooD'S Disquisition on tof the longer axis, >ad. therefore parallel* to a line drawn through all the points D, from one extremity of the vessel to the other; the several lines DS are the perpendicular distances of these parallel lines, and; are consequently all equal. In the ynext : place, it is Trequisite to determine the magnitude of the line DS, according to: the given conditions: -whatever be-the po-sition of the-points S, if lines CHI are drawn through Sin -each fof the sections, inclined at an angle to the line, BA, equal to the given angle of the vessel's inclination, the same plane will -pass through all the mliesCI. It Is required to ascertain at what d istance DS, from the points D, the plan -C oinciding with the waters surface when the vessel is inclined, must pass, o asto cut off a volume on the side: ASH h, being the volume immersed, whichshall be equal to the volume in the side BSOCc, which has emerged from the water, in consequence of the vessel's inclination. }In each section, through .the -middle point D,: daw a line NDW, inclineds to BA at an angle ADW,3 equal to the given angle of the vesel's inclination; the same plane will pass thtoughhthe lines NDW, in all thesections. By the methods which have ben described, let the area of the figure ADWb be mesured -in each section; from these equidistant areas, the solid contents of the volume between the two planes DAt and DW and the side of the vessel intercepted, may be inferred by thbe points D~being coincident with the water's surface, a line passing through them <m-ust be horizontal; and being, by the supposition,-situated in the same plane with the longer axis,must therefore be parallel to it. < Since the same plane passes thMOugh the lines DA., drawn coincident with the water's surface in all the sections, this plane may be supposed projected into the line DA on ibe' plane DOA. -For similar reasons the line DW represents the plane which.. passes throughall the Dines alV irsall the sections. the S/ability of Shjips. 283 computing according to the Rules iI. and III.; suppose this volume to be denoted by the' letter P, and the volume contained. between the planes DB, DN, and the side of the vessel, found by similar operations, to be denoted by the letter Q. Let the area* of the section of the vessel' passing through the lines NDW be nmeasured, from having given the lines NW in all the sections from the head to the' stern, and let, this area be put = R. If the volumes P and Q should be unequal, P being the greatest, in the line DA, set off, in each section, a line DS = X ADW a plane CSH be drawn passing through all the points S, and inclined to the plane BA at the given angle of the vessel's inclination, the solid contents of the volume between the planes SA, SH, and the intercepted side of the vessel, will approximate to equality with the volume contained between the planes SB, SC, and the intercepted side of the vessel. Since, therefore, the water's surface coincides with the plane BA when the vessel is upright, when it is inclined round the longer axis, through the given angle ASH, the water's surface will intersect the vessel in the direction of a plane passing through the lines CH, in all the sections. Let the solid contents of the volume immersed, orlemerged, by the inclination, be denoted by the letter A. In the section QBOAW, let M be the centre of gravity of the triangle ASH, and let h be the centre of gravity of the curvilinear area AHh; also, let I be the centre of gravity of the triangle BSC, and let c be the centre of gravity of the curvilinear area BCc: through these points, draw the lines * That is, the area of the section coinciding with the water's surface, when the vesl sel is inclined to the given angle. 00 2 284 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disqursition or Mi, bTi,: 1k, cR, perpendicular to CH; and, in the line I U, take a line IL,: which is to IU as the curvilinear area AH h'is to the area ASHh. Through the points S, in all the sections let a line Ff be drawn perpendicular to SH ; the same plane will pass through all these lines. LS will be the distance of the centre of gravity of the area ASH 1Y from the plane Ef. The products arising from multiplying each area ASHbh into the distance SL, of its centre of gravity, from the plane Ff, are to be calculated in all the sections; from which products, by means of the Rules * i. i i. and iiI. the sum of the products arising from multiplying each evanescent solid, of which the base is the area ASH , and the thickness a small increment of the axis, into the distance SL of its centre of gravity from the plane Ff, will be obtained. The sum of these products, divided by the solid contents of the volume immersed A, will be the distance of the centre of gravity of that volume from the vertical plane Ff. Suppose this distance to be equal to the line SQ: let the d istance PS, of the centre of gravity of the volume emerged, or BSCc, from the plane Ff, be found from similar computations; the line PQ will be the distance of the centres of gravity of the volumes ASHb, BSCc, estimated in, the direction of the line CH, perpendicular to the plane, Ff. The solid contents of the entire volume displaced by the ship, are to be obtained from the areas, either of the vertical or horic zontal sections, * Wheneverthe Rules z. zI. and I iX * are referred to, it is meant that the compu. tation is to be made from one or more of theserules, according to the, number, of ore dinates given, or as other circumstances may dire~ctt, t See Appendixthe Stability of Shzips. 285 The ordinates drawn in the several sections being set down in regular order, the area of' any horizontal section is to be found from the corresponding series of ordinates,,, by. means of the Rules Ei. and liIc and, by the same rules, from the areas of the horizontal sections so determined, the solid contents of the total volume immersed areto be inferred-;, some allowance being made for the, irregular parts of the volume adjacent to the head and stern,, if attention to these additional volumes should be thought necessary. That.part of the volume which is contained between the keel and the nearest horizontal area, is obtained. by first finding the area 'of each. vertical. section between the keel and nearest ordinate: from. these areas,, by means of the Rules it. and i.HI. the solid contents of the volume between the keel and nearest horizontal section will be measured, and is to be added to; the volume before found, which is contained between the two extreme horizontal sections. Let the solid.contents of the. displaced. volume. be denoted by V. From the areas of the horizontal sections and the common intterval between them, the distance DE, of the centre of gravity of' the volume immersed from the water-section, is to be obtained by means! of the Rules I;. and III.; by finding the sumof theproducts arising fom multiplying each evanescent solid, of which the base is any horizontal section, and' the thickness a. small increment of the vertical axis,. into that. small. increment also into its distance from the water-section-': the sum of these products, being di'vided by the solid' contents of 'the volume disc placed, will, be the distance DE, oftlhe water-section, from the, centre of gravity, of that volume. The position .of the vessel's' centre. of gravity G;,," depends_ 286 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on partly on the construction and, equipment of the vessel, and partly upon ther distribution of the lading and ballast, which circumstances therefore determine the distance GE, or the distance between the centre of gravity of the vessel, and that of the displaced volume. These several conditions having been determined, the coinstruction of the vessel's stability will beE as in the former cAses. Through the point E, draw the line EV parallel and equal to the line PQ; and, in EV, take ET to EV as the volume immersed by the inclination is to the entire volume displaced; or as A to V. Through the centre of gravity G, draw GU parallel to CLH, and through the point T draw TZ perpendicular to GU. GZ is the measure of the vessel's stability, when inclined from the upright through the angle ASH. The weight of the vessel and lading is found from the following proportion:* as i cubic foot is to V, the volume displaced, so is -jt part of a ton to the vessel's weight, which will therefore be ton. 35 The arithmetical operations required for ascertaining the sta-* According to Mr. CoTrs, (Hydrostatics page 73,) the specific gravity of sea water is-.103, when that of fresh water is -. And, since the weight of a cubic foot of rain waterAis ioc0 oz. or 64pounds avoirdupois, it will follow, that he weight of a cubic foot of sea water is 6z.5 X 5.03 = 64.375 pounds avoirdupois. Mr. CH A PM A N, in his Treatise on the Method of finding the proper Area of the Sails for Ships of the Line, infers the-weight of an English cubic foot of ~sea water to be 63.69 pounds avoirdupois. If an average between these results be taken, the weight of a cubic foot of sea water will be very nearly 6+ pounds avoirdupois ; and the weight of 35 cubic feet of sea water will be almost exactly one ton. According to the tables published by M. BRISs0N, the specific gravity of sea water is i.0263, when that of rain water is z. By computing from this specific gravity, the weight of a cubic foot of sea water will be: 64.1j4 pounds avoirdupois. 64 pounds avoirdupois is assumed as the average weight in the ensuing computations. the Stability of Ships, 287 bility of vessels, by the methods here described, are far from MIdif ficult, although they necessarily extend to some length; in order to give an illustration of these rules, by applying them to a particular vessel, I obtained, by favour of Messrs. RANDALL and BREN-X, eminent constructors, a draught expressing the form and dimensions of a large ship,* built for the service of the East India Company. According to this draught, the vessel is divided into 33 vertical segments, by A sections intersecting the longer axis at right angles., and at a commondistance -of 5 feet. f The lengths of the ordinates entered in the annexed table sufficiently define the form and magnitude of' each of the Q& vertical sections; -it will not therefore be necessary to represent their figures by separate drawings, since the constructions and calculations founded on them, for inferring results 'in any one section, are similar to those whidh are required in the other sections. The greatest or principal section, which, according, to this draught, intersects the longer axis at about 6o feet from the ist section adjacent to the head, is represented by the figure BAO (fig. 31 ): BA is the breadth at the water-line = 43.16 feet. BA is bisected in the point D; and DO, drawn through D perpendicular to BA, is the distance of the keel from the The ship CUFFNELLS. t Mr. BR E N T, jUn. obligingly took the trouble, at my request, of delineating each of these sections on a large scale, and likewise of drawingand .measurinig the..equidis tant ordinates necessary for calculating the areas thereof, together with such additional lines as are required for constructing the measure of the vessel's stability, according to the principles delivered in the preceding pages. I See Appendix. 288 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition oi water-section _ 22.75 feet. The line DR 22 feet, is divided into i i equal parts, and, through the points of division, 12 ordinates* are drawn, parallel to the line BA, at the common distance of s feet. The vessel is supposed to be inclined round the longer axis, at an angle of 300, and the line NDW is drawn through the point D, inclined to BA, at an angle ADW= 30: proceeding according to -the solution which has been given, by measuring 'the line DW =--22.6 feet, DA = 21.58 feet, the area of the triangle ADW 2J.58 X 22121.92 square feet. Also, by 4 mensuration, the line WA = iiAs : this, line being divided into six equal parts, of 1.925 each, if ordinates are drawn at the points of division, perpendicular to the line WA, they are found to be as here stated. Odnas XBy computing according to the Pts. of a Foot. Numbers. Products. Rule i i. from the 7 ordinates given, a = o.oo 1 o.oo ofwhich the two extremes are= of, b =0.15 4 o.6o the area of the curve space AWb C = 0.30 2 o.6o = 2.95, which being added to the -d 0 o.43 4 1-72' area ADW= 121.92, the area of e = 0.38 2 0.76 the entire figureADWb =14.87. f = 0.23 4 0.92 By similar calculations, ,the area g = 0.00 1 0.00 of the figure BDNc is found to be = 33.68. Sum 4.60 The areas of the figures ADWh common interval and BDNc, being measured in = .642; and the area each of:-the 34 vertical sections, AWb = 6 x .642 = 2.95 are found to be as follows. * The numerical measures of these lines are inserted in the table of ordinates; (see Appendix ;) the numbers are entered in the z ath vertical section. It is not necessary to express them in the figure. the Stability of Shlip/s.Areas of the Areas of the Vertical Figures Figures Sections ADW b BDN c Square Feet. Square Fcet. 1 42.86 23.61 2 81.53 58.92 3 ioo.8o 86.8o 4 114.16 105.27 5 121.56 115.70 6 121.75 120.90 7 123.47 125.36 8 125.20 129.82 9 124.87 131.04 10 124.54 132.27 11 1 24.69 132.97 1 2 12,4.87 133.68 13 124.87 133.68 14 124.87 133.68 15 124.82 133.42 i6 24.78 133.17 17 124.20 132.85 j8 124.62 132.53 19 123.91 131.05 20 123.21 129.57 21 121.06 127.48 22 118.91 125.40 23 117.50 122.66 24 1 i6.io 119.93 25 114.01 16.88 26 111.91 113.83 27 1o8.96 1og.81 28 io6.o1 10o.8o 29 101.82 98.92 30 97.24 91.71 31 92.41 79.95 32 86.31 66.o6 33 81.60 48.20 34 68.35 17.92 3767.77 37-00.84The vertical sections intersect the longer axis at a common interval of H feet. By computing, according to the Rule i i i. from the areas of the 34 figures ADWh here given, together with the common interval of 5 feet, a result will be obtained, which approximates very nearly to the solid contents of the volume between the planes DA, DW, and the intercepted side of the vessel, throughout the entire length of it. Making, therefore, according to Rule iii. the sum of the first and last area =S= 111.21. An-d the sum of the 4th, 7th, ioth, 13tll, &c. area (except the 34tll,) = P = 1167.58 S + P= 1278.79 Sum of all the areas = 3767.7 Sum of the 2d, d, ,5th, 6th, &c. areas = Q = 2488.98 Solid contents of the volume between the planes DA, DW, and the intercepted side of the vessel = S + 2 P + Q X = 18587.5 cubic feet. From the 34 areas of the figures BDN c, as entered in the table, by computing according to the Rule ini. the solid contents are obtained, of the volume between the planes DB, DN, anid.NDCCXCVJ I. 1P j) 290 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on the intercepted side of the vessel: for, observing the notation already described, and applied to the areas BDNc. S 41-.-53 P -=1188.83 Q 2470.48 The-solid -contents of the volume betweern the planes DB, DN, and the intercepted side of the vessel, is = S+2P+3Qx 5 =18432 Volume between the planes DA, DW, and the intercepted side of the vessel = 18-8 Difference = 155 cubic fete The area of the section passing through all the lines CDW, is found from having these Tlines 'iven by mensuration, and the common interval off , feet i thiem. This area is=-7 1c6 square feet. The distance DY X between the plane NW and the plane CH, which coincides with the water-section, when the vessel is inclined 0o from the upright, is 022 parts .02-2 of a foot, and the distance DSv= , i?300 =044 parts of a foot, or little more than 2 aninch: --a quantity of which it is unnecessary to take any account in this construction. When, therefore, the vessel is inclined from the perpendicular, through an angle of 3o0 round the longer axis, thle water's surface will pass through the middle point D of the line BA, in alll Page 283. t Ibid. X The form of the sides above and beneath the water line, in this vessel, causes the points D and S almost to coincide; but, in vessels differently formed the distance of these points is often considerable. The present instance points out the method of constructing the line DS, as distinctly as if it was of greater magnitude the Stability of Ships. B t the sections; the volume immersed, by the inclination on the side ADW, being equal, in a practical sense, to the volumewhich emerges on the side BDN. Let each or either of these volumes be denoted by the letter A =18509 cubic feet, being the average value between 18432 and 18587. Through the points D, in -all the sections, draw lines Ff perpendicular to the lines NW; the same plane passes through all the lines Ff: in the next place, the distance, between the centres of gravity of the volumes immersed, and caused to emerge, in consequence of the vessel's inclination, estimated in the direction of a line NW, perpendicular to the plane Ff, is to be obtained. To effect this, the line Dl*, in the principal section, is found by mensuration to be = 13.8, 1 U=7.03; and the areatAWh 2.95. The area ADWb has been found 24.87. t Wherefore, according to the preceding solution, the distance IL= X 715.03 = o. 1 1724.87 which being added to the line DIl -13.8, the sum will be DL = 13.97, and the product -arising from multiplying this line into the area ADWh will -be 13.97 x 124.87 1742. Similar products being obtained, arising from multiplying the several areas ADWh into the perpendicular distances of their centres of gravity from the plane, Ff, also the several products arising from multiplying the areas BDN c into the perpendicular distances of their centres of gravity fromthe plane Ef, in each of the. 34 vertical sections, the results will be as expressed in the adjacent table.* The point M is the centre of gravity of thetriangle ADW, as in -the general construction and solution: MI is drawn through M, perpendicular to NW: the line IL is found according to the method described in the same general solution. t Page 288. 4 Ibid.p 2 292 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition onVertical Products oI Products-,on. Sections the Side the Side ADHS b DC c 1 359 143 2 929 562 :3 1269 1010 4 1522 1342 S 1683 1542 6 1699 1669 7 1723 1766 8 1747 1853 9 1739 1873 10 1731 1 892 11 17361912 12 1742 1931 13 1742 193 14 1742 1931 15 1727 1930 i6 1713 1929 17 1724 1915 i8 1736 1901 19 1719 1866 20 1702 1832 21 i66o 1798 22 1618 1764 2 3 1591 1705 24 1564 1646 25 ia16 1584 26 -1468 1522 27 1415 1434 28 1363 1346 29 1290 1220 30 1199 1o88 31 1114 88i 32.1 1010 67 33 919 415 34 708 102 50119 49908Suppose the volume immersed, by the inclination on the side ADW h, to be divided into very thin laminae, or solids, the bases of which are the areas of the successive figures ADI h, and the thickness a small increment of the longer axis; by applying the Rule iii. to the products in the adjacent table, corresponding to the figures ADW h, we shall obtain the sum of all the products, arising from multiplying each of these thin solids into the perpendicular distance of its centre of gravity from the plane f =S+2 P+ Q 92-x =2s54s7; which sum of products being divided by the solid contents of the said volume, or 18509, will be the distance DQ, of the centre of gravity of the volume ADW b from the plane Ff 2 15437 =1378; and,. 18509. by a. similar calculation, the distance DP from the plane Ff, of the centre of gravity of the volume on the side BDN c, caused to emerge by the inclination, will be 18509. 1 3.5 BDP. The sum of these two lines, DQ + DP, or PQ, will be = 27.32 feet, which is the distance of the centres of gravity of the volumes iinmersed and emerged, in consequence of the vessel's inclination., estithe Stability of Ships mated 'in the direction of the line NW, perpendicular to the planeF: let the line PQ be denoted by the letter b. The solid contents of the entire volume displaced are next to be measured, from lhaving first obtained the areas of the 12 horizontal sections, intersecting the vertical axis at the common interval of 2feet, and dividing the immersed volume into i 1 horizontal segments. The areas of the several horizontal sections are measured by Rule iii. from having given the ordinates drawn in the said sections, parallel to the waters surface from head to. stern,. at the common interval of . feet. The mensuration of the area of the horizontal section i 2, which coincides with the water's surface, from the ordinates entered in the annexed * table, is as follows: Ordinatesof Ordinatesof the Horithe HoriVertical zontal SecVertical ontal 8ccSections lion i Sections zion1. Feet. Feet. According to the Rules irr. 1 10.78 1 9 2 1.48 S= 23.7 2 16.oo 20L 21.32 2O6.41 3 18.4021 2 1.2 2 4 19.84, 22 2 1. 05 =444-05 5 S 20.54 23 0 20.82 the area of half the horizontal section 6 20.94 24 20.61 12.Si-eP+,Qx+ 5z336.3,. 7 21.20 25 2044 8 21.38 26: 2:015 and the total area of the horizontal, 9 21.48 27 19.85 section 12= 6633.6 square feet. 10 21.50 28 19.58 The areas of the 12horizontal sec11I 21.566 29' 19.25 tions, computed by Rule iii. from the 12 2 i.48 |t30 1 18.77 ordinates, as expressed in the table: 13 21.6 31 18.2 1 14 21 .-6 32 17.52 inserted in the Appendix,, are as folk 15 21.56 33 -i-16.50 lows; i6 21.d5 34 12.95 17 21. 53 i8 21.51 674.19 * See. Table of Ordinates, in the AppendixA 291 MiM. ATWOOD'S Disquisition onWatereas of tie a The solid contents of the volume between the Lie. Sections. Lijcs. Square Feet. sections 12 and 2, is measured by the Rule ii. by 6 making the sum of the 12th and 2d areas S 12 6633.6 11 6568 4 the sum of the lith, 9th, 7th, 5th, and 3d, = P 10 6499.3 the sum of all the other areas Q 9 6324.0 the common interval between the areas being 7 5948.8 two feet. 6 5687.8 The solid contents of the volume between 5 |546 the sections 12 and 2, is S+4P+9,Qx 2 4 4906.6 S+P3X3 4298.6 = 113791.2 cubic feet. 2 3417.0 The contents of the volume between the sec1 9025.0 tion 2 and 1, may be obtained by the Rules i[. _ 162800.5 and iii. For, by the Rule iii. the contents between the sections 4 and i, is found to be = 21733.8 By Rule ii. the contents between the sections 4 and 2 is 17012.0 Contents between the sections 2 and i = 4721.8 Contents between the sections 12 and 2 =113791.9 Contents between the sections 12 and i = 118513.0 To the volume thus determined, the contents of the space between the horizontal section i and the keel, are to be added. To measure this volume, the areas must be first obtained of the 34 vertical sections which are included between the first ordinate in each vertical section and the keel; which areas are found, by the methods of mensuration already described, to be as in the annexed table. the Stability of Ships. 295Aroasbetween the first OrdiVertical nate and the Sections Keel. SquareFeet. 1 3 4 2.4 5 2.8 6 4.6 7 S-(; 8 6.6 9 7.4 so 9.3 11 10.5 12 10.5 13 10.5 14 10.5 '15 10.5 16 10.5 17 9.8 18 9.2 19 8s 20 8.0 21 6.o 22 5.3 23 4.8 24 4.3 25 3.7 26 3.0 27 2.4 28 1.9 29 1.6 30 1.4 31 1.2 32 1.1 33 1.0 34 1.0 175.9Applying the Rule iii. to these areas, and making the common distance between them _ r = 5 feet, the solid contents between the first horizontal section and the keel is found to beS+2P+3Q x 3gr 871.0 feet. Contents between the horizontal secFeet. tions 12 and 1 118513.0 Contents between the first section at the keel* 871.0 Total contents of the volume immersed between the first and thirty-fourth vertical section _ 19384.o Let this volume be represented by the letter V. By the preceding computations, the line PQ = b was found = 27.32, and the volume immersed by the vessel's inclination, or A = 11850og. From these determinations, the line ET is inferred for, according to the general theorem;, as V A:: b ET or 119384 18509 27.32. 4.23. wherefore ET = 4.23.. * The rules here-employed for measuring the volume displaced, cannot be applied to the irregular parts of the vessel, adjacent to the head and stern, without constructing and measuring the or. dinates by which their forms are defined: the same observation. applies to the mensuration of the body of the keel and of the rudder. But, as these additional volumes bear a small proportion to the entire volume displaced, they may be determined by an estimate founded on the draught of the vessel, sufficiently near the truth, without taking the trouble of a more rigorous calcuflation by equidistant ordinates.. 296 Mr. ATwooD's.' Disquisition1 Onl To infer the measure of stability from. this value of the line ET, it will be necessary to, have given the distance GE, between the centre of gravity of the vessel, and the centre of gravity of the volume of water displaced. The position of this latter centre is regulated entirely by the form and dimensions of the body under water; and, on this account, is to be considered as a point absolutely fixed, in respect of the Water-section, or other given plane. But the position of the vessel's centre of gravity being regulated, partly by the construction and equipment of theyvessel, and partly by the distribution of the lading and ballast, can be assumed-on the ground of supposition only; unless iln cases where the position of this point has been actually ascertained. In some vessels, the distance GE has been measured, and found equal to about part of the greatest breadth at the water-line: without knowing what the real distance of the two centres of gravity G and E may be, in the ship of which the dimensions are here given as subjects of calculation, the distance GE may be estimated (merely for the purpose of exemplifying the pre43.1i6 ceding rules) at -8 of the breadth BA, or 4 5.39. Consequently, the inclination of the vessel from the upright being 300, GE x sin. 3Q0 5 39 = 2.69 = ER: which being subtracted from ET 4.23, will leave TR or GZ = 1.53 feet, the measure of the vessel's stability, when inclined round the longer axis through an angle of 3C. The solid contents of the volume displaced being 119384 cubic feet, the weight oP the vessel and contents will be equal to that of 119384 cubic feet of sea water; which, allowing 35 cubic feet to each ton, will amount to 3941 o tons. According to this determination, the force of stability to turn the vesselround the longer axis, when inclined from the upright through an angle of 30?, is a force of 3410 tons, acting at a distance of i.13 feet the Stability of Ships. 297 from the axis; which force is equivalent to a weight or pressure* of 241 tons, acting at a distance of 2i,58, or half the breadth at the water-line from the axis. In this computation, the distance GE, between the centres of gravity G and E, has been assumed without considering the absolute position of these points, in respect to the water-section or keel. But the distance DE, or OE, ought to be known, since the point E being fixed in the same vessel, when the weight is given, and the centre of gravity G being within certain limits. moveable, the adjustment of this centre, by means. of the lading and ballast, will be better regulated, if the position of the point E be first ascertained: the distance DE will befound from having given the areas of the 12 horizontal sections, and the contents of the volume between the section 1 and the keel. Suppose the areas of 12 horizontal sections of the vessel to be given, as they are expressed in page 294; let the displaced volume be conceived divided into. laminate or very thin solids, of which the bases are the areas of the successive horizontal sections, and the thickness a small increment of the vertical axis. The sum of the products arising from multiplying each of these segments into its perpendicular distance from' the section 12, also a similar sum of products for the solid contents adjacent to the keel, will be found from the computation subjoined. * This equivalent weight is not here supposed to be counterbalanced by the wind, which probably never acts with sufficient force to keep a vessel of this weight inclined permanently from the upright to so great an angle. But the measure of force which acts to turn the vessel round the longer axis, when inclined to this angle of 30?, is precisely that which is here stated, according to the given conditions. MDCCXCVIII Q q 298 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on WaterAreas of the Distances Products of each Numbers for lines, or horizontal from the area, multiplied computing Products. horizontal Sections. Section into its distance according to Sections. Square feet. 1 2. fromtheSection the Rule ii. 6633.6 0 00000.0 1 6568.4 2 13136.8 4 52547.2 10 6499.3 4 i 25997.2 2 51994.4 9 1 6324.0 6 37944.0 4 151776.0 8 6238.o 8 49904.0 2 99808. 7 5948.8 10 59488.o 4 237952. 6 i 5687.8 12 68253.6 2 1365o7.2 5 5 5353.4 14 74947.6 4 299790.4 4 1 4906.6 16 785056 1 78505.6 Sum of the products 1108880.8 The common interval betvween the sections being 2 feet, the sum of all the products arising from multiplying each thin horizontal segment contained between the section 12 and 4, into its distance from the waLer-section, will be o Of 1 io888o.8 = 739253, by the Rule ii. Numbers for Computing according to Rule iii. 4 4906.6 i6 78505.6 1 78505.6 3 4298.6 i8 77374.8 3 232124.4 2 3417.0 20 68340.0 3 205020.0 1 925.0 22 20350.0 1 53003500 l S~~36ooo.o Sum of the products arising from multiplying each thin horizontal segment between the section 4 and 1, into its distaw nce -the Stability of Shsips. 199 from the section 12, X 536o00, by the Rule in.402000 Sum of the products between section i12 and 4 = 739253 *The contents of the volume between the keel and the ordinate 1, multiplied into the distance of its centre of gravity from the section 12 I9G% Sum of the products arising from multiplying each horizontal evanescent solid into its distance from the water-section = 1160718 The sum of products, thus found, divided by the entire volume displaced, will be the distance of the centre of gravity of that volume from the water-section, or DE _ = 6. 7iL8 9.7224 feet.' 119384. If the distance between the centres of gravity G and E should be assumed of the breadth BA at the water-line, or .39 feet, this distance being subtracted from 9.22 feet, will be the distance of the vessers centre of gravity beneath the water-section, or DG 3.83 feet. To determine the limiting point or metacentre W, above which if the centre of gravity G 'should be raised the vtssel wtill overset, it is only necessary to compute, by means of the Fluent of BA' X : Rule ii. or iii. the value of the line EW = zV where z represents any portion of the longer axis: AB the breadth of the water-section, at the distance z from the initial point where the mensuration commences: a small increment of z : V = the solid contents of the volume displaced. By computing the cubes of each ordinate of the water-section, drawn at the common interval of S feet, as represented in the * Equal to the sum of the products arising from multiplying each thin horizontal segment between the section X and the keel, into its distance from the water-section, Qq 2 -oo Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on table* of ordinates, the total sum of these cubes is-276373.21 Cube of the ist ordinate, or 10.78 1252.73 Culbe of the 34th ordinate, or 12.95 =2171.75 Sum S 3424.48 Sum of the cubes of the 4th, 7th, loth, &c. 28th, and 31st P = 88628.41 S +1 P =92052.89 Sum of the cubes of the 2d, 3d, 5th, 6th, &c. 3gd, 3d = Q a-=184520.32 S + 2P + 3Q 734242.26, this sum x 15, will be = fluent of BA' x = 11,o013,633.9 ;and since V=1 9,81.o, EW'. = 7.688 feet. 9 4-I 138. 7 In this vessel, the centre of the immersed volume E is 9.72 feet beneath the water's surface; it follows, that the metacentre will be 2.o3 feet beneath the water's surface. The total weight of a vessel and contents is inferred from knowing the volume of water displaced by the vessel, the solid contents of which space have been calculated in the preceding pages, from the areas of the 12 horizontal sections intersecting the vertical axis at a common interval of 2 feet. By similar calculations, we may determine the several weights of tonnage which will cause the vessel to sink to any different depths, estimated by the horizontal line or section which is coincident with the water's surface. The solid contents of the volume included between the horizontal sections 12 and 9, is found, by the Rule in. to be 39120 cubic feet; displacing a weight of water (allowing 3S feet to See Appendix. the Stability of Ships.* So a ton) of 117.6 tons: the volume between the sections i i and 9, is found, by the Rule II. to be= 25926, displacing 741 tons of water: the volume between the sections i2 and iiL will therefore displace a weight = 377 tons. By similar computations, the following results are obtained. From the Difference Difference water-section. of tonnage. From of tonnage. 12 to II 377 tons. 12 to 11 377 tons6 i1 to io 374 12 to lo 751 lo to 9 367 12 to 9 1118 9to 8 357 12to 8 1475 8to 7 348 12to 7 1823, 7 to 6 333 12 to 6 2156 If any one of the adjustments determining the stability of a vessel should be altered, the several other conditions on0 which that power depends, will most commonly experience corresponding changes, the effects of which it is not easy to estimate, without some reference to the theory of stability. If the weight of theCuffnells and contents; should be diminished 751 tons; or rather if another vessel, constrvcted in all respects like the Cuffnells, should be loaded by 75,1 tons less weight, the following changes will take place, by which the stability isprincipally affected; one of which is additive to, and the others subtractive from, the stability of the vessel. 1st. -The section of the water will be, nearer to the keel by 4 feet; so to coincide with the horizontal section io instead. of 12. The centre of gravity of the displaced volume will be nearer to, the keel than before by 2. iL feet.. Admitting, therefore, in the first instance, the sot Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on centre of gravity* of the vessel and contents to remain at -the same distance from the keel, the distance of that centre from the centre of the displaced volume will be increased by -2 19 feet and this change will operate to diminish the stability. 2dly. The total weight being less, will have the effect of diminishing the stability, in the proportion of 3410 to 2660 3dly. The breadths of the vessel at the waterline are less than before, being the double ordinates in the horizontalt section io, instead of those in the horizontal section 12. By this change, the stability will also be diminished. 4thly. The volume displaced being less, in consequence of the diminished tonnage, in the proportion of 2660 to 3410, the stability will be augmented by this change; not in the proportion of 2660 to 3410, but in a proportion considerably greater; yet not sufficient to counterbalance the effect of the alterations by which the stability is diminished; on the * Let the distance of the centre of gravity of any body, or system of bodies, from a given plane, be denoted by the letter D: if weights are taken away from different parts of the system, in such a proportion that the sum of, the products arising from multiplying each removed weight into its distance from the given plane, divided by the sum of the removed weights, may be equal to the distance D, the distance of the centre of gravity of the remaining weights, from the same plane, will also be the dis. tance D: that is, the distance of the common centre of the whole system, from the given plane, will not be affected by the removal of any portion of the weights, act cording to the conditions here described. t See Appendix. the Stability of Sbips. 303 whole, these alterations will diminish the stability of the vessel, when inclined to a given small angle, in the proportion of about* ioo to 67 In this estimate, the vessel's centre of gravity has been supposed to remain at the same distance from the keel at which it was situated in the Cuffnells, and consequently more remote from the centre of the displaced volume by 2. 19 feet: suppose the vessel's centre of gravity to be depressed 2. 19 feet, by altering the distribution of Ithe lading and ballast, so as to be at the same distance from the centre of the displaced volume, as in the Cuffnells; the effect of this alteration will be entirely additive to the stability, which will be increased in the proportion of 47 to zoo. An increase in the proportion of 47 to 1oo, combined with a diminution in the proportion of loo to 67, is, on the whole, an increase of stability, in the proportion of 47 to 67, or aboutt 7 to lo It might be difficult to depress the vessel's centre of gravity * The subject of these observations being the relative stabilities of the two vessels, they are supposed to be inclined from the upright to the same angle, which may be assumed of any magnitude, either great or small: the latter supposition is here adopted, which is well suited to the purpose of general illustration. But nothing canl be inferred from these results, respecting the stabilities, when the angles of inclination are considerable; which are to be obtained from computations founded on the methods which have been described in the prgceding pages. t This proportion might have been immediately inferred from one computation only; but, by calculating the effects of diminishing the vessel's weight separately, the increase and diminution of stability, arising from the alteration of the several conditions, are more distinctly expressed. $04 LaMr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on through so great a space as -2.19 feet; and the increase of stability which would ensue from it, may perhaps not be necessary. If it should be required that the stability of the vessel, when the weight is diminished 751 tons, shall be just equal to that of the Cuffnells, this will be effected by adjusting the centre of gravity lower than its original position, byf only .97 parts of a foot. These determinations relate to the vessel's stability in respect to the longer axis. But the position of the shorter axis, round which the ship revolves in pitching, and of the vertical axis, round which it is caused to turn by any horizontal forcenot passing through the vertical axis, will also experience some change in consequence ofdiminishing the vessel's weight. For the centre of gravity of the volume displaced, being necessarily in the same vertical line with the vessel's centre of gravity when it floats quiescent, fixes the position of the latter point, in respect to the ship's length, when floating-on an even keel. And since the alteration of the water-section, of 4 feet in height, causes the centre of gravity of the displaced volume to approach nearer to the head of the vessel by about 2 a foot, both the shorter horizontal axis and vertical axis of the vessel must experience the same change of position: the former alteration affects the motion of the vessel in pitching, and the latter somewhat increases the action of the rudder in turning the ship, and also affects the motion of the vessel, in turning to and from the wind, by causes independent of the rudder.* These observations point out the alterations of stability, in * By altering the distance of the centre of gravity from the points of application, in the longer axis, at which the water's resistance and force of the wind, when not exactly balanced., act on the vessel. the St bility of Ships. 30 consequenceof diminishingthe Atonnage of the vessel, without entering. into any consideration how far: su changes a, on .the whole, beneficialr othervwise. It -is: here necessary to observe,, thatthe; -force Of stability and the measure of it, the subject of investigation in the preceding 4pages,:is wholly independent of the water's res-istance, whichco-operates with the. -vessel's stability only while it is; inclining, and wholly cases. assoonm as thevessel has at tained to the -greatest inclination, at -which& it is 1supposed permanfently to, remain in a state f equilibrium; the inclining force being exactly balanced by the force of stability. This observation will obviate any difficulty that might possibly occur from the principleo: stated&in page 2 '3f which is, that if the shape of the zone WHFC, (fig. iand 2.) comprehending xthat portion of the sides of a vessel which may be imAmersed under, and may emerge above, the water's surface, should be the same in two vessels, the stability, will be the same at all equal angles from the; upright, whatever shape be given to the form of the volume immersed, which is situated beneath the said zone, provided the vessels be in other respects similarly constructed and adjusted: if, for instance, the keel of one ves sel should be very deep under the body of the vessel, the keel of the other being of the ordinary dimensions, the deeper keel will oppose an increased resistance to the inclination of the vessel only while it is inclining, so as make it heel slower; but will not alter the angle of permanent inclination caused by a given force of the wind, or other uniform power; which inclination depends entirely on the; stability, which has been determined in the preceding pages, and has no relation to the resistMDCCXCVIII. R r 306 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on ance of the water, which arises from thevessel's motion round its longer axis. The object of, the preceding propositions, and inferences founded on them, has been rather to establish general principles, which may be of use in forming plans of construction, than to investigate what modes of, construction -are the most advantageous; a discussion more extensive thanwould be consistent with the :subject here proposed to be considered, which relates to the stability of vessels only. The practice of navigation requires the co-operation of many qualities in vessels, the laws and powers of which, considered as acting either separately or conjointly, it is the employment of theory to investigate.' In respect to the construction of ships, it is obvious that no one of the component qualities can be regulated, without paying attention to all the others; because,,by increasing or diminishing any of the powers of action, the others are commonly more or less influenced. It has been :shewn, by the propositions demonstrated in these pages, that there are many practical methods by which the stability of vessels, at any given angle from the upright, may be augmented; a circumstance which gives to the constructor great choice of means for regulating this power, according to the particular service for which the ship is designed; for it is not every mode that will be advantageous. The several varieties of -form and adjustment by which stability is increased, may be so unskilfully combined, that, in consequence of the very means used to obtain that essential quality, either the ship shall not steer well, or shall drift too much to leeward, or shall be liable to sudden and irregular motions in rolling, by which the Stability of Shipso 307 the masts are endangered; or those angular oscillations of the ship shall be performed round an axis situated so much beneath the water's surface, that the motion of rolling shall be excessive and laborious. It is the proper use of theory, or right principle, whencesoever derived, so to adapt the means to the end proposed, that the required stability shall be imparted, without producing inconveniences of any kind, or such only as are unavoidable, and are the least prejudicial: the same observation applies to the other qualities of vessels. By duly combining the whole, ships are constructed so as to fulfil the purposes of navigation. Rr s So8 Mr. ATWOOD'S Disquisition on APPENDIX. Note to the Investigation, Pages 232, 233. &"sije O x7sine p.Vz/Itang.1 Fx tang.1S sec. { F x sec. S This is investigated in the following manner: Let R be put to denote a right angle, the other notation being the same as in page 232; Then the angle DWP= 2F + P; also DWP-RS wherefore F+ P=R -S and P-R-2 F S, and, since 0 2RFP, it follows that 0=R -2 -F+ S; consequently sin. P = cos. 2 F + S sin. 0 =cos. F -S and sin. 0 x sin. P =cos. I F +S x cos. I F-S cos. F x cos. Ssin.2F x sin.1S or because cos. S i sin." S sin. O x sin. P = cos.2 2 F x 1 sin.' S sin. -" F x sin.2 S or sin.0xsin.P=cos.j2F sin.1S sec.1 . F x sec." S sec ~ ~~ cos2 I X ewSXC 5F -sin.' S + tang.1 S + tang.1 X F X tang.1 S sec~~~~~~~~e. 2 F' X sec." S ec* . tang.1 I F x tang.1 S or sin. O x sin. = seF t I/ang.1" x tang.1n S Finally, sin. x sin.A-P-sec. JLF xsec. S w ----------------------C -~~~~---------C------Q F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ BVI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I IQ~i Q i I0P ]i7Plo.r. kzanr. AM) C CXCVIT XAri. VIfIp. .3c&. 7+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i_ H Q IL 14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t f / _ 1 1, z~~~~~~~~~~~ )~~~~~~i I I I I Pi IQ I x I II I II I I L II I I II B I G 7 'W c E 9 P-el, 0 -1 rx Q / me/~~1Js E~~~~~~~~~~~~1 5'4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I L D A~~~~' F.r Pkdosz-aaw. -VD C XC VUIL fd. LMp.Jas. , ;I L '7 A S H / A~~~~~~~~~~~-,e,"~-W I AIr~~~~~~~ a 1? It WIG Ea iiB 9 ~~~~~~~~~~b 1. Dt rM/ D S N. aN'.6 m 6 o~~~ z G v1 EZe ZIPlrBJL si b c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r T EQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ jbZz/t6.\ t DS E -I I-Q H -9, /N. ?, 11TII B D it II II i II i II I I I I i II I 11 c I II i I II E I II II II II I I ?7 _ _ ~~~~~ SI A F G c~~ C T E7II i III ~Q C\ At~~~~~~ 0 T II~ ~~~~ IDIC ~~~~~~~~Q E F I _____/ / >71121 i C -~~~~ BCK _ _ _ _ _ _ _ B _ _ _ _ __D Q K Jiiodtvsfmw. M-D ( C XCSVI Jab. XII.p. ios. "I_ _ D \I/0: q~~~~~~~~~~ qH0 24. C B 6 c d c A! BI c' D E 7s 25. >4c 266/~~~~~~~~~ d C kiz hy f e dc 6cat x IKO Thiltoxiranc. MD C C XC Vi. lab. MlX1 i-ns. E F GH 51 e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ I I F'I F' I C H'IIA BD C0 _ t ,0 U' 28S. BDAI G~~~~~~ E C it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L~ 0 R/,dosr. ransKMDC CXC VJI LTab XIVp Jo S. F'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~H U~ 22.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i1 A B~~~~~~~~~~~~~D( I, cl,~~ii c F X 0 351 D ee/1I 1 1 " I \ -rl~~~~~~~~~~~IA~~~~~c~~~~~~~i IF -'F j~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ nJ,3"/. -.DA 14T ll-~ Tt7 \ -a>-11 19 ! l i / ]JWis.Imir.-IM-D CC CXIC VIIm. TaA. XV p . 9os. IF t7 ~~~~~~~~~sI~~ II'' ;the Stability of Ships. 309 Note to the Investigation, Page 233. WQ FE. tang1 {F X tang. S x sec. S The investigation follows: FP: PO ::sin.,O : sin. F; wherefore OP aiFPxl ; or beisjn.O _sec. X F x sin. F cause FP*= FE x sec. F sin p OP FE x Vsin. x sin. P zVM 2sin.F OF sin. {F FEand aPQ FE x or because v'siTY O x sin.~i~ V = ' a,"ng FxFAn g.z s PQ =FE secA F x sec-.S tang. I F x sec. S VI tang. I F X tang.S _ ButPW:WF (FE x v'I tang.*jF x tang.1 S) sin '.F : sin. P; therefore PW-FE x sin. I F x _ tang.1 F Xtang1S 2 sin. P I tan .z I F. , tan . i. F and WQ = PW PQ -=FE x tang.-F X tang1 yS X sin.F sin.P )x tang.F2sec.S or 4'! _tang." F x tang. S wQn=-FE ~ sin. P tang.z I F. sin. F x tang.1 S tang. F x sec. S X sin. P sin. P x V/ tang.5 I F x tang.z S Butsin. P-cos. S + ,F cos.-?Fxc cos. S-sin. I Fx sin. S, which being substituted forsin. P in the value of WQ just found, the result is \VO=FE ~ sin. -jFF tang.21 F X tang.1S x sin4F-sin. F+ tang. 4F x sin. x tang.S cos. F x cos.S sin. 4. F x sin. S X V x tang. { F X tang.12S tang. I F x sin. F x tang. Stanrg.2 IF x tang.2S x sin. F or WO = FE x2cos.4AF -x cos. S sin.-IF x sin. S Y V s -tang. I 1F x tang.21S rW Etang.F x sin. 2 F x tang. S X I-tang. I F x tang. S orWQFEx "n ? cos.XF xcos.S sin.!Fx sin.S xVI-tan 5Fxtang. S * Demonstrated in page 232. t Page 308. I Page 233. 310 Mr. ATWooD's Disquisition, &c. because cos. 2F x cos. S sin. F x sin. S = cos. 4 F x cos. S x i tang. 4 F x tang. S tang. F x sin.I F x tang. S x i -tang. F x tang. S WQ= FE x ' ' 2 cos. WF x cos.Sx itang. I Xvx tangS x. .g Fx tang.*S 0~~~fl~~ ~tang.TZIF X tang. S X sec. S or WQ = FE X s i^ tg F v/ i -tang.' . F X tangy6-The work of Mr. CHAPMAN, mentioned in page z67, is written in the Swedish language, and has been translated into French by M. VIAL DE CLAIRBOIS. The translation is intitled, Traite de la Construction des Vaisseaux, &c. par FREDEERIC HEN RI DE CHAPMA N, Premnier Constructeur des Armees Navales, &c. Dimensions The Ordinates entered in the annexed Table are the N0 1 2 3 4 5 697 8 g 10 11 12 13 14 1 Feet et. Feet. Feet. Fett . Feet. Feet. Feett. eet. Feet. Feet . Feet. Feet. Feet. FE i 6 13'5 17.1 18.9 19.85 20.4 20.55 20.65 20.55 20.5 -20.S 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 2C 3 5 3.0 17.0 18.9 20.0 20.55 20.75 20.9 271.0 271.0 271.0 2 1.0 271.0 21.0 21.0 2 1 14 12.4 I6.75 18.8 :o.oj 26.6 20.9 2 1. I Z 1.2 21.3 Z3.3 21.3 21.3 21.3 21.3 2z1 13 i i.6 I6.4 z8.6 20.0 Zo.-i6 20.105 21.15 21.3 21.4 21.45 21.45 21.45 2I.45 21.45 21 Z 12 10.78 i6.o I 8.4 19.85 20.54 20.94 2 1.2 :2138 21.48 21.5 2i.56 2zI.56 z2I56 2 i i56 1i 0F4 9.1 yu 13. 1 0.1 19.7 zu.5 20.92 21.21 21.44 2.55 21.00 21.00 21.00 21.00 21.00 21 61 10 8.3 34.4 17.7 19.45 20.3 2o.8 27.15 21 .38 21.52 2i.6o zi.6o 2i.6o zi.6o 2z.6o 21 2 9 6.6 33.25 I7.075 19.1 20.075 z0.65 21.05 23I34 21.45 2 1 .5 21.59 231.59 21.*59 21.59 21 O 8 4'9 .11.73 1 6.z i8.55 19.73 20.45 20.9 21.2 23I.34 21.47 21.51 21.51 21.51 21.51 2] 9 7 3.3 10.0 15.1 17.84 19.3 20.12 zo.6S 20.9 21.i4 21.28 2I.51 21.51 21.51 21.35 2] = 6 1.7 8.i 1 35 i6.85 i8.64. 39.65 2 0.3 2 2o.62 20o78 20.93 20.93 21.1 21.1 21.1 21 _~~~~~... . . . . -x l----S--w----'5 6.7 113. 15.3 17.55 18.91 39.6o .zo0o5 20.25 20.4 20.5 2o.6 2o.6 2o.60 2< | ---. .. . __r _ , | 4 | ~ | 4.09 9-0 13.2 1 5.09 |177 i8.65 19.05 19.35 ' 9.5 19. I9.75 39.75 '9.75 I( 3 ?i.8 6.35 30.45 33.5 ig.6 x6.8 17.45 37.88 i8.iS 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.3 Iz 29 3.5 6.85 9.78 12.15| 13.6 14.55 35.2 15-5 15.9 15.9 15.9 15.9 1 1 2.55 3.09 5.5 6q75 8. 9. 1 9.8 10.5 10.5 110.5 10.5 j 4 Common distance between the ve Common distance between the wl Distance between the horizontal s The ordinates of the horizontal 54 Dimensions of the CUFFNELLS INDIA SHIP. tes entered in the annexed Table are the Half-breadths, expressed in Feet, of the several vertical and horiz VERTICAL SECTIONS. 9 10 1 1 12 13 14 15 i6 17 i8 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet, Feet. O0.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.4 20.3 20.2 20.15 19.85 19.75 19.5 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 2 1.0 z 1.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 20.9 20.8 zo.6S 20.5 20. 3 20.1 19.9 21.3 Z1.33 21.3 21.3 21.3 21.3 z 1.3 21.3 21.3 21.3 21.25 21.1 21.0 20o.85 zo.65 20.45 20.25 Z1.4 21. 21 21.45 21.45 2I.45 21.45 21.45 21.45 2I.45 21.45 21.4 21.25 21.15 2 .0 zo.8 2o.6 20.+ 21.48 21.5 5i.S6 zi56 21.56 2i.56 z i.56 21.55 21.53 21.581 i.48 21.32 21.22 21.05 20.8:z 20.61 20.44 Z1.55 z .6o za.6o 21.6o 2i.6o zi .6o 2i.6o 2i.6o u:.60 21.52 21.50 21.35 21.24 21.075 20.82 20.61 20.43 ICZ2 I .60 -II60n ,I A. II.60 .Ii 6n 2iTni I.6 lA ii.60n i -.C reirn 21 .7r ur In2 r n R. in '1 -AY i A=_-, I 'I -, -I -.--I --.w . -21.45 123.5 1 21.59 59 21.59 21.59 21.59 21.59 21355 21.521 2144 21.3 i.i8 2.0 20.75 20.55 20.3 23.34 21.47 21.51 21.51 21.51 21.51 z j21.5 21.50 21.4 21.3 21.2 21.05 20.89 20.65 20.4 zo-z 21.14 21.28 21.51 21.51 21.51 21.35 21.35 21.-32 21.3 132 21.1 23.0 21.85 zo.6 20.4 20.15 19.85 20.78 120.93 1 20.93 1 21.3 23.1 21.1 21.3 21.05 13.0 20.9 z o.81 20.67 20.5 20.32 20.05 . 3 20.25 20.4 20.5 20.6 zo.6 2zo.6 20.6 20.52 2C.45 20.35 20.25 20.1 19.9 19.7 19.3 19g.o i 8.46 19.35 3953 39.6 19.75 19375 19.75 19.75 19.65 19.55 19.4 5 19.3 19.35 18.9 i 8.6 2 8.z8 17.751 17. 37.88 18.35 38.3 18.3 18.3 3 8.3 18.3 i8zo x8og 1 795 137.75 17.51 17.25 36.9 16.40o 15.7 14.8 35.2 15.5 15.9 3159 15.9 15.9 15.9 15.7 15.5 15.35 15.0 14.6 1 142 i3362 132.9 11.9 io.8 9. 1 9.8 10.5 10.5 130.5 10.5 10.5 10.3 9.8 9.2 8.g 8 j 7.27 6.4 5.9 5.1 4.2 Common distance between the vertical sections, s feet. Common distance between the water-lines or horizontal sections, 2 feet. Distance between the horizontal section x, and the upper surface of the keel, I of a foot. The ordinates of the horizontal section xz coincide with the water's surface when the vessel is loaded. (To face page u 3iOa INDIA SHIP. in Feet, of the several vertical and horizontal Sections. 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 t. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet, Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Feet. Fet 4 20.3 20.2 20.15 19.85 19.75 19.5 19.3 19.1 18 9 x 8. 8.oS 17.S 1.95 a6 25 15.5 9 20.8 zo.6S 20.5 20.3 20.1 19.9 '9.7 19.45 19.3 I8.8 18.4 17-9 17.35 i6.65 15.7 25 21.1 21.0 ZO.85 zo.65 20.45 20.25 20.o0 19.7 19.4 19.05 3 87 18.2 17.6 ?6.9 5 .8 4 21.25 21.1 5 2 1.0 zo08 2o.6 20.+ 20.1 19.8 19.5 19.25 18.75 18.35 17.6 16.9 15.S 48 21.32 21.22 21.05 20.8:z 20.61 20.44 20. I 5 I9.85 19.58 I 9. 25 I8.77 i 8.2I 17.52 z6.S 12.95 50 21.3S 21.24 21.075 20.82 2o.61 20.43 20.12 19.8 19.52 19.15 i8.62 17.9 I6.9 14.9 7. 50 21.35 21.25 20 2r 20.4 20.3 ----19.75 --9.44.9. 18.4.1. ---4. -3 5o:21.35 1 21.25 21 205 1 20.83 20.61 i 20.4 20.11 19.75 I *411. i 1 .4 17-4 i 1 65 1+1.5 3 .4-44 21.3 7Z.18 21.0 20.75 -20.555 20.3 20.0 '9.59 1 9.222 i8.55 17.82 16.3 13.4 7.45 1.95 3 21.2 21.05 20.89 zo.65 20.4 z 20 7 19-3 8.8 17.9 6.8 14.6 10.35 4.31135 I 21.0 Z i.85 2o.68 20.4 20.15 19.85 19.35 18.8 I8.1 I6.85 I5.05 12.0 7.1 2.7 1.05 8i 20.67 20.5 20.32 20.05 19.75 19.3 8.8 x 8.o 17.31 1535 1 2.9 9.1 4-55 i.85 .90 25 20. 1 '9.9 19.7 19.3 19.o i 8.46 17.88 i6.8 15.45 13.310 10.3 6.1I 2 . '9 1.32 .75 3 19.35 18.9 i8.62 i 8.78 17-75 17. I 16.15 I4.8 iz.85 10.1 7.05 3.75 I v9 1.0 .70 75 17.52 3 7.25 16.9 16.40 15.7 14.8 13.4 i i.6 9.35 6.65 4.25 2.3 1. .Z5I8 .65 0 34.6 114.2 1336z 12.9 11.9 10.8 9.2 7.2 5 38 3.55 2.4 1.45 .98f *751 .63 . L 6.4. 5. 9 5.1 4. 3 35 25 1.8 I .40 1.11 .90 .8oJ .62 6o 2 feet. of the keel, : of a foot. r's surface when the vessel is loaded. 