[471] XII. A Letter from Arthur Dobbs Esq; of Castle-Dobbs in Ireland, to the Rev. Mr. Charles Wetstein, Chaplain and Secretary to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, concerning the Distances between Asia and America. S I R, I AM extremely obliged to you for the Trouble you have taken, in corresponding with Professor Euler * upon the Russian Discoveries Eastward from Kamschatka, and communicating to me the Accounts he had of Behring's last Voyage, and of his Discovery of the Lands North-East of Japon; which the Professor could only have inaccurately, not having seen any Journal to fix the Latitude and Longitude of the Countries he then discover'd: But since Professor Euler, sway'd by the Opinion of Captain Behring, seems still to believe that the last Land he discover'd is joined to California, which Country is now known to be Part of the Continent of America, and not an Island (in which Fact of its being continuous to California I differ still in Opinion from him,) for, if that were a Fact to be depended upon, I would candidly own, that there could be no Passage from the North-West of Hudson's-Bay to the Western Ocean of America, without sailing near 700 of Longitude; the Distance of the North-East Cape of Asia from the North-West of Hudson's-Bay, in a Parallel almost as far North as the Polar Circle, before the Passage can Read April 9. 1747. * See Trans. No. 482, p. 421. [472] can be made to the Pacific Ocean; which might therefore be very reasonably call'd an impracticable Passage, as it could not possibly be made in one Summer, if at all); and since Professor Euler has been so kind as to give me Captain Behring's Reasons for supporting his Opinion, which are principally from the small Distance he supposed it was, from the Coast he discover'd, to the Western American Coast at California (which he imagin'd was much nearer his North-East Cape of Asia than it is in Fact); I must therefore, in return to the Professor's Goodness, in communicating to me all he has known in that Discovery, beg Leave to give you this further Trouble of communicating to the Professor my Reason for still dissenting from Behring's Opinion, that the Land he discover'd last was Part of the Continent of America, or continuous with California; and if he find the Reasons for supporting my Opinion make it more probable, that there still may be a large Opening betwixt these new-discover'd Countries and California, I am sensible it will give the ingenious and learned Professor great Pleasure, to think we may yet hope for a Passage by Hudson's-Bay to the Western American Ocean, without being obstructed with Ice after passing Hudson's-Sreight. The Professor imagines I might have been led astray, by not considering, that the North-East Cape of Asia is much more Easterly than has been laid down in any former Charts; which is now known accurately, by the Eclipse of the Moon observed by Captain Behring at Kamschatka. I have an Abstract of his Journal by me, upon his first Discovery in 1728, and 1729, when he observed that Eclipse, and the Calculation of the Longitude 7 from [473] from it; and stand by his Longitude he has fix'd; and allow that his North-East Cape is in the other Hemisphere; reckoning Eastward, either from Fero, as the first Meridian, or from London; which last I shall follow. Behring fixes his North-East Cape 1260 7~ East Longitude from Tobolski; and Tobolski is 860 East from Fero; so the Cape is 2120 7~ East of Fero, or about 1940 East from London. By Captain Middleton's Observation of Jupiter's Satellite at Churchill River in Hudson's Bay, that River is 950 West from London; which, added to 1940, makes 2890; consequently the North-East Cape of Asia is 710 distant from Churchill, to complete 3600; which, in the Latitude of 650, computing 8 Leagues to a Degree of Longiude, of which 20 make a Degree of Latitude, the Distance betwixt that Cape and Hudson's Bay would be 568 such Leagues. From the known Longitude of the North Cape of Japon in 400 Latitude, which is pretty exactly known, from the Observations made by the Jesuits at Peking, and is about 1500 East from London, and from the best computed Longitude of California in 400 North Latitude, it lies in 1300 Longitude West from London, making together 2800, leaves 800 for the Distance of California from Japon; allowing 17 Leagues to a Degree of Longitude in 400 North Latitude, the Distance would be about 1360 Leagues: By the same Calculation California must be at least 7 or 800 such Leagues from the North-East Cape of Asia; so that, in so great a Space there may be very great Countries or Islands *, without supposing the new discover'd Country continuous to California, and might well allow of an open Chanel or Sea, from 50 to 100 Leagues wide, between the discover'd Coast and California. By [474] By the Account given to Professor Euler, Behring sailed Southwardly to the Isles of Japon, and from thence sailed Eastwardly 50 German Miles, about 250 English Miles; which makes about 80 Leagues, of 20 to a Degree. At that Distance from Japon he discover'd Land, which he coasted North-West; still approaching towards the North-East Cape, without going ashore, until he came to the Entrance of a great River; where sending his Boats and Men ashore, they never return'd, being either lost, kill'd, or detain'd by the Natives, which made his Discovery incomplete; his Ship being stranded, and he afterwards died in an uninhabited Island. As no Latitudes nor Longitudes are fixed by this Account, I must believe he sailed from Kamschatka South-East, perhaps more Southerly than to 50~ Latitude; and there found Land North-East from Japon; otherwise, by coasting it North-West, he could never approach the North-East Cape, which is, at least, 40~ Longitude East of Japon; and if he made Land 80 Leagues East of Japon, he must have sailed North-East to make the North-East Cape. I have therefore Reason to believe this Coast was Part of that he saw in his first Voyage, where he lost his Anchor; and is the Coast Gama discover'd, and the Dutch afterwards called the Company's Land, East of the Streights of Uzicez, which is at least 7 or 800 Leagues * The Japonese, in their Maps of the World printed in Japon, have laid down in this very Tract two Islands as large as Ireland, with the Names to them, as appears in that Map bought by Dr. Kempfer in Japon in 1686; now in Sir Hans Sloane's Museum. C. M. [475] Leagues West of any known Land of America, and above 1000 near the Latitude of Japon: So that, if I should allow 700 Leagues for Countries or Islands East of his new-discover'd Coast, there might still be a Passage of 100 Leagues for the Southern or Pacific Ocean to communicate with Hudson's Bay, and to cause such great Tides and Currents, as are found on the North-West of Hudson's-Bay; as also a free Passage for the Whales, which are seen in all the Openings North-West of that Bay, and are caught there in Numbers by the Eskemaux Savages: For, as these don't go in by Hudson's Streight from our Atlantic Ocean, it cannot be presumed that they should go up by Japon towards the North~ East Cape, and from thence go 70~, or above 560 Leagues, to Hudson's Bay, and be there in the Month of June, and, after staying until September, return again the same Way to the Southern Ocean, to pass the Winter.Now, as Behring only coasted at a Distance, he could not possibly know whether it was a Continent, or great Island; the last of which seems the most probable: However, a few Months now, if our Ships return safe, will give us a Certainty on one Side or the other; altho' I am sanguine enough to believe~ they have by this time sailed through, and discover'd this so much wish'd for Passage. These, Sir, are the Reasons I have still to expect Success in the Attempt I have promoted; and, if you think it may give any Satisfaction to Professor Euler to know the Reasons that support my Belief of a practicable safe Passage, be pleased to communicate it to him, with my Compliments for the Trouble I Q q q have [476] have given him by you, and accept of my best Acknowledgments for your Favours. I am, with the greatest Regard and Esteem, S I R, Your most obedient humble Servant, Arthur Dobbs. Castle-Dobbs, Feb. 10. 1746~7. 