fig: 5. W X fig: 7 O A N V IV. A Letter from Mr John Thorpe, M. A. of University College in Oxford, to Dr Hans Sloane, S. R. S. concerning Worms in the Heads of Sheep, &c. WIth this you receive the delineation of a Worm, found in dissecting the Head of a Sheep, in the Cells form'd between the Laminae of the Os frontis: It is an Apode, and seems to be a species of the Eulae; tho much different from the common sort breeding in putrid Flesh. It is every where of a fair pale colour, excepting its Tail, which ends a little obliquely in a Plane; on which are impress'd two remarkable black spots, (as in Fig. 8.) Besides two small white corniculae, its Head is arm'd with a pair of black, sharp, and crooked forcipes, which, in contracting, and extending its Body, it draws in, and puts out at pleasure: With these it is, that in creeping it takes hold of the surface of the Body, on which it moves; and draws it self forward on pretty large, protuberant, and somewhat flattish toruli, fewer in number than those on its Back, (vide Fig. 9.) which alternately swell'd and relax'd, seem instrumental to its motion, and supply the place (1801) place of Feet. It looks of a clear, Crystalline substance, and almost transparent. The Membrane, that invested the cavity of the Cells containing it, was very fat, and in most places separated from the Bone; the Blood-Vessels appear'd turgid, and inflam'd: Whereas the Membrane of the opposite Cells, which have no Communication with these, was thin, pellucid, adherent, and no ways preternaturally affected. I have given the more particular description of this Worm, and the Cells, it was found in, it not being describ'd by any Author, I have yet consulted. Mr Bobart informs me, ``That some curious Gentlemen of the Uni`` versity, lately observ'd three Worms lodg'd in the same `` parts of the Head of a Sheep~ but in two distinct Cells: `` The largest apart by its self, the other two in the Cell `` adjoying; one of which was considerably less than `` the other, agreeing in form with the forementioned, of `` a whitish colour in general, with the two notable spots `` on the flat of the posterior part, but a shadow of `` brownness from the back down the sides, (especially of `` the riper one;) roundly turgid on the back, and flat `` underneath; divided with several annuli, as these `` Creatures generally are; at the extremity of which Pro`` tuberances, serving instead of Feet, there appears a little `` darkish brown spot on each side or edge: as they faded `` and wither'd, they chang'd to a light red or phaenicious `` colour, and afterwards brown. (a) Moufet mentions Worms yearly breeding in the Brain of Stags, Goats and Sheep, (especially when fat) but supposing them generally known, gives no description of them; unless from (b) Benedictus and (c) Mathiolus, that they are Eulis maximis aequles, & ejusdem cum illis formae: Tho the Worms meant by those two Authors are not found in the Brain, but (as they both agree) sub lingua in concavo circiter vertebram, qua cervici innectitur caput. (a) ~. ~~lib. 2 ~. ~ (b) Lib. 21. in proaem. (c) Commentin Dioscor. lib. 2. cap. 52. (d) Avicenna asserting the possibility of Worms breeding in the Head, ~ says expressly multoties nascuntur in anteriore parte (d) Lib. 3. ~ 1. can. 3. ~ 2. cap. 3. (1802) parte capitis super locum qui est in strictura narium: To which (e) Joubertus ~, ubi oves, & caprae dicuntur perpetuo vermes habere, ut cervi in gutture. This plainly shews the distinct places of their generating in the Heads of Stags and Sheep, as well as describes the particular Cells, in which they are found in the Os Frontis of the latter. (e) Cap: 9. de Cephalalgia. (f) Trallian relates a memorable Story from Moschion: Democrates the Athenian applying himself to the Oracle at Delphos for the Epilepsy, receiv'd the following answer; (f) De Arte Med. lib. 1. ~. 15. ~ ~ ~. Which Guinterius Andernacus renders thus; De grege sume caprae majores ruris alumnae Ex cerebro vermes, & ovis dato tergora circum Multiplici vermi pecoris de fronte revulso. Democrates not comprehending the hidden meaning of the Oracle, referr'd it to Theognostes Democratius; who recollecting that the Head of a Goat near the Basis of the Brain is naturally impregnated with Worms, right sagely unfolded the Mystery; advising him in pursuance to Apollo's directions to procure one or three of them (for, it seems, it must be an odd number) by provoking the animal to sneeze; and wear them about his Neck, in the Skin of a black Sheep, as an Amulet. 'Tis not to be imagined, how Worms seated at the Basis of the Brain, where Trallian places them, should be expelled by sternutories. The words of the Oracle [~ ~ ~] admit of a more favourable construction, and distinctly express the cavity over the Nose: from whence by a passage, that opens into the Palate and Nostrils, they may easily be discharged by sneezing. By the same passage they (1803) they may as easily insinuate themselves, when small; or rather be drawn up with the breath in the state of Eggs, and deposited in those Cells: Where animated by the Vital Heat, and nourisht by preying on the Membrane, in which they are included, they may more probably occasion the Epilepsy in Sheep and Goats, (a Distemper (g) Hippocrates observes to be frequently incident to them, tho he ascribes it to a different cause) than cure it in Men. (g) De ~; Sacro. From hence perhaps we may be allow'd to account for those various Instances given by Medicinal Authors, of Worms ejected at the Nose by Men and Women. (h) Benivenius, (i) Fernelius, (k) Zacutus Lusitanus, (l) Ronsseus, (m) Trincavellius, (n) Hildanus, (o) Baptista Codronchus, (p) Tulpius, (q) Verzascha, and (r) others, relate several cases of this kind; all agreeing that they were attended with extream Pains in the Head, Mania's, Lypothymies, &c. which immediately ceas'd at their ejection. (h) De abdit is Morb.causis,cap, 100. (i) De Part. Morb.& Sympt. lib. 5. cap. 7. (k) Prax. Med. ~. lib. 1. obs. 7. (l) Miscell. Epist. Medicinal. 10. (m) De ratione ourand. partic. hum. corp. affect. lib. 9. cap. 11. (n) Observat. cent. 1. obs. 8. (o) Epist, ad Fulv. Augelinum & Alfarium ~: vid. Crucium de Quaesitis per Epist, cent. 3. (p) Observat, med, lib. 4. cap. 11. (q) Observat. med. obs. 6. (r) Tho. Bartbolin. Hist. ~. cent. 1. Hist. 64. Epist. med. cent. 2. Epist. 74 & 85. Ephem. German. Ann. 2. obs. 147. Ann. 4, obs. 37. It must be granted; (s) ~, (t) Gabucinus, (u) Forestus, (w) Borellus, and particularly (x) Fulvius Angelinus, who wrote an entire Discourse De Verme admirando per Nares egresso, very rationally conclude, the Worms they treated of came from the Stomach, or Lungs, they not being attended with those Symptoms, nor affecting the Head; as in the cases related by the Authors we have mention'd; particularly in that remarkable Instance of (y) Hollerius of a Worm evacuated at the Nose nulla tussi, nulto vomitu antecedente: Which by the acute pain it produced, plainly discover'd where it lay conceal'd. ~ ~ re ~. lib. 4. cap. 5~ (t) De ~bric. cap. 8. (u) ~. medicinal. lib. 21. obs. 28. (w) Hist. & Observat. medic. cent. 2. obs. 70. (x) Apud Alsar. Crucium de Quaesit. per Epist. cent. 3. (y) De Morb. intern. lib. ~ cap. 54. in ~. Whether Worms may generate in the Brain or its Teguments, I shall not determine: ~Tis sufficient (supposing it Z z z z z z z z z z z z possible (1804) possible) that there is no passage for them thence to the Nose; where they are often found, as we are assur'd by many credible Writers. Angelinus and Alsarius a Cruce place them prope nasi colatoria in strictura narium; both seeming to imply that Sinus more exactly describ'd by (z) Avicenna: Which is to be understood of humane Heads, not those of Brutes, but only as apply'd by Joubertus. (z) ~. ~ ~. What terrible Symptoms, as Cephalaea's, Deliriums, Epilepsies, Syncopes, Convulsions, &c. a Worm, with such sharp and piercing Weapons may raise, by continually preying and sporting on a Part so exquisitely sensible, and nearly situate to the Origin of Sensation, as the Membrane, that invests the cavity of this Sinus, may be more easily imagin'd than explain'd. Oxon. July 24, 1704. 