[161] Received November 12, 1772. XIX. Experiments upon the different Kinds of Marle found in Staffordshire, by by Charles Morton, M. D. Sec. R. S. Read Feb. 4, 1773. Quantity of calcarious earth in half a dram, as separated by the Number. Description. nitrous acid,and What was left after the foregoing ~ precipitated by no longer acted upon by the nit mild fixed albeing kaly. Grains. Mixed with water, became ~ 1. Red and blue intermixed, in small friable lumps. 1 Uniform and plastic. A hard ~ 2. Red, in small friable lumps. 03/4 Uniform and plastic. A hard ~ 3. Grey, in large hard lumps. 5 Plastic, but a little gritty. A soft ~ 4. Red, hard, compact. 3 Uniform and plastic. A hard ~ 5. Red, with grey spots, in large hard lumps, scarcely to be broken with a hammer. 81/2 Plastic. A soft ~ 6. Light grey, like a grit stone. 8 Gritty, no union. No union. 7. Brown, friable, in large lumps. 18 No union. A little ~ 8. Red, in large friable lumps. 14 Plastic, but a little gritty. A soft red 9. Brownish white, very hard, like calcarious incrustations. 16 No union, gritty. No union. 10. Lead colour, friable, flaky. 141/2 No union, gritty. No union. 11. Brown grey, very hard, in irregular lumps. 16 No union, gritty. No union. 12. Lead colour, in powder and in small hard lumps. 201/2 Uniform and plastic. A soft ~ Half a dram of the marles being put into similar glass cups, two drams of nitrous acid being added to each glass, they all ~ ceased, and six drams of rain water being added to each glass, the liquors were all filtered, and after filtration, changed violet paper ~ alkali, sufficient to saturate the acid, and precipitate all the earth it had dissolved. The precipitated earth being washed in rain ~ third. Column the fourth shews that, after the separation of the calcarious earth, there remained in No 1, 2, 4, a red clay; in No whitish clay, with a portion of sand; in No 6, 9, 10, 11. pure sand; and in No 7. sand, with a small portion of clay. These ~ cipitated powders being mixed together, 82 grains thereof put into a crucible, and calcined with a strong heat, lost 35 grains in weight. pellicle upon the surface of the water; it tasted strongly of lime, and let fall a calcarious earth, upon the addition of mild fixed alkaly. made use of. They were all got out of marle pits in the neighbourhood of Stafford, except No 12, which is found near the Duke of ~ part of clay is burnt to quick lime. All the above marles crack and fall to pieces, when exposed to the weather. The foregoing experiments were undertaken with a view to ascertain how far it would be adviseable to attempt burning the marles ~ likewise furnish us with some useful hints relative to the kind of marles proper to be used upon different kinds of lands. Perhaps ~ best for light sandy ~; and No 6, 9, 10, 11, where the calcarious earth is united with sand, the most eligible where the land is ~ fixable air, or other volatile parts, contained in each of the marles, as shewn by column the fifth, will influence their preference in ~ VOL. LXIII. Y ~, by William Withering, M. D. Communicated R. S. ~ separation, was The calcined by the nitrous acid; but One dram of each of the marles being marles put into calcined, weighed water, produced When burnt Grains. Lost grains. Burnt to A hard red brick. 52 8 Red brick. No effect. A hard red brick. 53 7 Red brick. No effect. A soft yellowish brick. 49 11 Soft yellow brick. Weak lime water. A hard red brick. 50 10 Red brick. No effect. A soft pale red brick. 48 12 Hard grey stone. Lime water. No union. 51 9 Soft and stony. Lime water. A little cohesion. 46 14 Soft stone. Lime water. A soft red brick. 48 12 Soft stone. Strong lime water. No union. 43 17 Soft stone. Strong lime water. No union. 48 12 Soft stone. Strong lime water. No union. 40 20 Soft stone. Strong lime water. A soft whitish brick. 29 31 Powdery. Strong lime water. effervesced; No 1 and 2 the least, No 12 the most. The effervescence having ~ paper to a red colour. To the filtered colours was gradually added mild fixed rain water, till free from all saline matter, weighed, when dry, as in column the ~; in No 12 a white clay; in No 8 a red clay, and a portion of sand; in No 3 a ~ residuums were all washed with rain water before they were burnt. The prein weight. Rain water was poured upon the calx; the next morning there was a ~ alkaly. The marles were kept ~ ~ weeks in a dry place before they were ~ of Bridgewater's canal, in a powdery form, and when mixed with one fourth ~ marles of this country into quicklime, for the purposes of agriculture; they may Perhaps the calcarious earth united with clay, as in No 1, 2, 4, &c. may be the and is already ~, and abounding with clay. How far the different quantities of nce in agriculture, must be left to the experience of the farmer to determine. Received 