*:: 39 2VI. Account of some Particulars iserved during the late Eclzfise of tbe Sun. By William Herschel, LL.D. F. R S. Read January 9, zy94 IT will be proper to remark that my attention, in obseraring this eclipse, was not directed to the time of the several particulars which are usually noticed in phnomena of this kirld; siuch as the beginning, the end, and the digits eclipsed. I was very well assured that the care of other astronomers would render my endeavours in that respect perfectly unnecessary. The only view I had was, to avail myself of the power alld distinctness of my telescopes, in order to see whether any appearances would arise that might deserare tc) be recorded; and the following particulars will, at least, serve to point out the way for similar observations to be made irz other eclipses, where diffierent circumstatlces may chance to affiord an opportunity for gathering some addition to our kllowledge, with regard to the nature alld condition of-the moon, or of thessun, and perhaps of both these heaverlly boclies. Sept. , 1y9S,. 8h 40t g by the clock.* My attention beiI1g directed to the place where I supposed the first impression woul-d be made, I perceived two mountains of the moon enter the disk of the sun, as delineated at a, b, fig. 1, Tab. VII. Tl1e :By account, my sidereal time.piece was abollt 5' IJ,7 too forward; butJ as no aransits had been tately takenX there may be an escs of some sesonds D@ ., r. hERSCHELvS Account of th@:4Otime of their beginning to appear, when I saw them first, might be one or two seconds past. gh 5t. 7-feet reflector; power 87 The internal, luminout angle made on the sun, by the intersection of the limb of the moon, nvhlch is now but little more than a rectangley is per :fectly sharp up to the very point. It tis notin the least disSgured hy the refraction of the lunar atmosphere. The present shape of the angle, however, is not favourabIe for shewing the eSects of that atmosphere. w . . . 9X 17tH7 The lumi ncus angles of the sunvs preceding and fol10WIng limbsn which are now acute, remain perictly sharp. One of theln, indeedn was disEgured, a little while ago, by the erltrance-of a mountaul of the moon but is now restored to its sharpness. loh ,/. I delineated the appearance of the limb of the moon upon the sun, -and found its luountains as in fig. 2. At a was a large table mountain, as it may be called, from its flat appearance S atb and c were elevated, ?ointed rocks. ^ Their appearance changing pretty fastn noPgreat accuracy can be ex pected-in their e-xpress@d relative siDtuation. I suppose the height of the most elevated of these mountains not to exceed a mile and an half; for, on dranwing several of tllem upon -the seginent of a large circle, so as to look like what they appeared ahthen projected upon the sunf I found them to be from the 1Sbodth to the 2000dth part of the diameter of that circle. ThenS putting the moons (liameter7 aS M. r)E LA LANDE states it, aft 782 Frencll leagues, or 21Sl English milesn we find the 1 Soodth part o:f this to be less than one mile and an half for tlle highest, and the 2croodth partn not quite one mil<e and a tentll for the lowest late Eclipse of tbe $?X.ttI attendedall this time to the appfearallee of the slearp limb a b c of the sun , fig. , and suspected, sometimes, a little lending of the cusps outwards, as espressed at b in fig. 4; but upon long, alad attentive inspectiona I could not satisfy myself of itS Teality. If there ras a bending, it did probably llOt amount to one secolld of a degree; for, having formerly been much in the habit of measuring the moon's mountains, the quantity of one second, on its disk was still famxiliar ellough to me to esti-mate it pretty exactly. loh z5t I looked out with the llatural eye for the planet Venus, and soon perceived her. In the telescope, with 28yo she appeared very sharp alzd well defilled, and sras a little. . . gl bbous. It suay seem, perhaps, extraordlnary that in tlze trial above mLentioneda the eye should be able to ascersain the proportion of a qu-antity so little as the fifteen hundredth or twio thousandth part of the diameter of the moon; but the experiment m-ay be easily repeated in the following nanner: Uporz a line, six or eight inches long, drawll on a sheet of paper, make several small marks, representing tnountains on the progected circumference of a large globe. The paper beX ing thell placed in a proper light and situation, witlldraw the . . eye to the distarlce of 7, 8, or 9 feet, alld take notice which of the marks appear of the sanze size, and distinctness, with r;he * Irl the years 1779, 1780, and 178X. I did not measure, I suppose, less tharl ar hundred 1nountains of the moon, in which I used three different methods: the projection of the tops of these mountains beyond the enlightened part of the disk; the length of their shadow on the surface of the moon; and their perpendiculalz projection on the full edge of the moon's li1nb. Some of these observations are contained in a former pwer (see Phil. Trans. Vol. EX. PartII. page 507); but most of them remain uncalculated in my journal, till some proper opportunity. MDCCIG 15Je G Dr. HERSCHEL s Account ofn Sc2mountains they represent. Then, from the known angular magnitude of the moon; calculate its diameter, at the distance of your situation; this, multiplied by the power of the teleSCOpe7 gives the diameter of a circle, to the circumference of which belongs the;lineS upon which are placed the marks above descriloed. Now, tneasure the elevation of these marks, above tlaat lin@, and you will obtain the proportion they kearXo the -diameter of the circle. In lny experiment, I found that I could plainly see some smclll protuberances at g feet distance which were no higl-ler tharl the oth part of an inch. Then putting the diameter of the moon at gotg we have the sum of the logarithms of the tazgent of 3o' X of the povvzer 287 and of the otlls of an inch contained in g -feet; which,taken from the logarithm of theP diameter of the moon in mile-sg gives the logaritllm of ,16. By svhich we findf that so stnall a mountain as the llofiowdth, or not much more than the sixth part of a mile) lnay be per ceived arld estimated) by the telescope and pover that was used upon this occasion X and that, consequently the estimation of mountainsS near a rnile and an half highg must becotne a very easy task Sl9ugh near Windsor.? WMe H:ElRSCIIFIa tpecf 30> I795* jVA ie7oJi Zzar>^. Ml)C CXC lb: Cah .VII P 4 2t+/ 9@ c//(P/ // P--/27^ /.K . ^--A/X e-y .t>/// t C J 