An Extract of a Letter Written by the Learned Dr. William Durston, Physitian at Plimouth, to the Right Honorable the Lord Vice-Count Br uncker as President of the R. Society; concerning a very sudden and excessive Swelling of a Womans Breasts. My Lord IN obedience to the commands of the Right Honorable the Lord Ambassodour for Barbary, I present your Lordship with a Phaemonenon and matter of fact in Nature, which, for its rarity and prodigiousness, may, with a lesser check to me from your Lordship for the presumption, and a lesser regret for the avocation, (1048) avocation, obtain the favour of your perusal. The thing is evident, and shews itself, and can withall be attested by thousands, but above all the rest by his Excellency, the said Lord Ambassadour, who was an Eye-witness of it, and imposed this task on me, of giving your Lordship a perfect Narrative of the wonder, which is as follows; Elizabeth Trevers, 23. or 24. years of age, fair of complexion, brown-hair'd, of an healthy constitution, low of stature, of honest repute, but of mean and poor parentage, near this Town, was on Friday July 3d. 1669. in good health, and went well to bed, where she took as good rest and sleep, as ever before,but in the morning,when she awaken'd, and attempted to turn herself in her bed,was not able, finding her Breasts so swell'd, that she was affrighted to an astonishment. Then endeavoring to sit up, the weight of her Breasts fastned her to her bed; where she hath layn ever since, yet whithout all pain and weakness either in her Breasts, or in any other part. This being nois'd abroad, several Physitians and Chyrurgions resorted to her: some proposed cutting off her Breasts, which I was wholly against,advising for the present only an emollient and temperately warme fotus, and once gave her a Bolus with * * * * * *; upon the taking of which she hid ten motions deorsum, and the swelling somewhat abated; but the Maid was so weaken'd upon it for 2. or 3. days after, that I durst not attempt any thing of that nature since; sed quiapassa fuit suppressionem mensium per sex retro menses, Diuretica non nulla, & sanguinis menstrui prolectament a praescripsi,intending also Phlebotomy. The Tubuli or pipes of the Breasts are all very hard and swelled; and indeed the whole breasts seem to be nothing else but those tubuli, and little or nothing of wind or water. As near as we can guess, the left breast weighs about 25. pounds, but the right somewhat less. And the skin of the Bick, Neck and Belly seem to be drawn towards the Breasts to serve for the distension. The measures of the Breasts are these; The (1049) See Fig. III. Feet. Inch The Circumference of the right Breast 2. 7 Of the left Breast 3. 1 1/2 The length of the right Breast from the Coller-bone 1. 5 1/2 The length of the left Brest 1. 7 1/2 The breadth of the right Breast as it lyes 1. 1 The breadth of the left 1. 4 1/2 Thus farr, My lord, the matter of fact, faithfully related. Now what should occasion those monstrous tumors of the whole Breasts, and that so suddenly in one night, keeps us in great suspence. There occurs nothing in this point satisfactory in the writings of Platerus, Rhodericus a Castro, Fontanus, Forestus, or any other of the Moderns,that I have seen, writing de Morbis Mulierum, suitable to what may be offer'd upon the Data of the Circulation of the Blood, the Lymphaeducts, and the Vasa Chylifera Thoracica, and probably some Capillary vessels branching thence (in their progress to the Sub-clavials) through the Intercostal Muscles into the Breasts. I humbly beg pardon for this tediousness &c. Plymouth, July Io, 1669. This Narrative having been produced and read at the R. Society, and the Author of it thanked for his communication, and desired to impart what he should further observe in this very odd Accident, he was pleased to write, some while after, a second Letter to the Publisher, as follows; Sir. I Had written to you ere this, but that I unhappily mislaid your Letter among other papers; but having, after much search, found it again, I return the Most Honorable Society and you my very humble thanks for your invitation of me to continue my Observations about the vnusuall swelling of the Breasts, heretofore described. About the beginning of this month, our prodigious woman in Coughing brought up at several times some blood; but this Iscon took off; and at that time there appeared several cutaneous ulcers upon her Breasts and other parts, & abunde in verendis (ut a faeminis edocebar) which last I cured; but those on her breasts in part remain, and daily discharge, by the sole apG g g g g plication (1050) plication of Cole-leaves, good quantity of sanious matter. And the Patient complaining also at that time of grievous interjuncture pains, especially vpon the Tibia, I suspected &c. and applyed Empl. de Ran, * * * and gave her 3. succeeding mornings * * * for a dose. The third day, it wrought sursum & deorsum pretty briskly; after which her pains vanish't and many of those vlcuscula; and her breasts (which, since her Case, formerly sent up, were grown considerably bigger and very painful) much less'ned, and her pains also; and she, though drooping much before, and out of hopes of life, exceedingly revived. This indicated to me, what I was further to do for her. I gave her on sunday last * * *; which wrought upward plentifully; and she daily gets strength since, and her Breasts abate. I designe to salivate her, in hopes to correct that vitious ferment, which is spued out of the Genus nervosum into the Breasts, and contributes much to those tumors. But I shall now stop my hand, &c. Plymouth Septemb. 17. 1669. Fig. III. 