XLIII. A Letter from Mr. Ph. Warburton to the President, serving to inclose an Extract of a Letter from the Rev. Mr. John Seddon, of Warrington in Lancashire, to Mr. Jo. Philpot, in Chester, concerning an Earthquake, April 2. 1750. Dear Sir, Grange in Cheshire, June 10. 1750. T H E inclosed Extract is the only written Account of the late Earthquake which I can obtain from any of the Naturalists in this Country: And as I have conversed with several intelligent Persons who perceived it, the inclosed Extract corresponds very exactly with their Sentiments and Observations upon it. I have now in my Custody Read June 14. 1750. [696] tody the original Letter from Mr. Seddon to Mr. Philpot; and shall not part with it without your Direction. I am, Sir, with the greatest Respect, Your most humble Servant, Ph. Warburton. Extract of a Letter from the Rev. Mr. J. Seddon, of Warrington in Lancashire, to Mr. John Philpot in Chester, dated Warrington, May 10. 1750. T H E late Earthquake happen'd the 2d of April, at 10 at Night, as nearly as can be determin'd; if any thing, rather after than before. I was at Liverpoole at that time, where the Shock was not so sensible as at some other Places; and yet a Person in Company with us that had lived in Jamaica a great Number of Years, and well acquainted with Motions of this kind, having felt eleven in one Night, declared it to be the smartest he ever felt. The Duration of the Motion was every-where extremely short,not exceeding, as nearly as I can guess, 2 or 3 Seconds of Time. As to the Nature of the Motion,as far as I can judge of it myself, and from the Observations of others, it seems to have been of the horizontal kind, proceeding in an undulating manner from North-West to South-East. I was in a sitting Posture, and the Motion I felt was like that of a Vessel falling from the Top of a Wave, and rising again upon the next. Mr. Breckell of Liverpool, and others that I have convers'd with upon the Subject, represent it in the same Way. It [697] It is, I think, universally agreed, that an uncommon Noise attended the Shock, a Noise that much resembled distant Thunder, or a hollow rumbling Wind: Some Persons also say, that they perceived a sultry sulphureous Smell, much about the Time of the Shock; tho' that Day and Evening were remarkably cold; and whether this was real, or only imaginary, I cannot determine. The Shock was felt as far North as Lancaster, and as far to the South as Wrexam, and the adjacent Parts; in all, about 70 Miles N and S. It was felt as far as Stockport and Altringham to the East, and quite into Flintshire on the West; that is, about 30 or 40 Miles East and West. The Shock was not so great, or of so long Continuance, as to do any material Damage. I think I heard of a large China Jar falling from a ChimneyPiece in a Gentleman's House, of a Piece of Marble reared against a Wall falling and breaking, and two or three trifling Instances of that kind. There is only one thing further that I would mention upon the Occasion: As soon as I felt the Shock, I was immediately apprehensive what it was, and went out to see whether there was any thing remarkable in the Atmosphere. I then observ'd a very uncommon Appearance; viz. an infinite Number of Rays, proceeding from all Parts of the Heavens, converged to one Point; no luminous Body appeared at all. The Rays were at first of a bright Yellow; afterwards they became blood-red. This Phaenomenon was not far from our Zenith. It continued about 20 Minutes, and then disappeared. U u u u The [698] The ensuing Night was very stormy; a large Quantity of Hail fell about Two in the Morning; and the Barometer was extremely low. Those are the principal Circumstances that I am~ acquainted with, relating to the late Earthquake. I depend upon your Candour and Goodness to excuse the loose manner in which they are thrown together. XLIV. 