[263] V. An Account of a new Species of Fungus, by John Martyn, F. R. S. Prof. Bot. Cantab. communicated in a Letter to the President. IN the latter Part of the Summer of the Year 1744, Mr.Ehret the Painter brought me a Fungus of a very extraordinary Shape and Size, which had been found growing on a Piece of the Trunk of an Elm, in a damp Cellar in the HayMarket. Read Jan. 24. 1744-4. The whole Plant was about two Feet in Height; and, at first Sight, seemed not very unlike the Horns of some Deer, being variously branched, and covered with a thick Down. It was of a spongeous Substance, and of a dusky-red Colour inclining to Black. The Tips of the smaller Branches were of a CreamColour. The larger Branches, or rather the Tops of the whole Plant, were expanded in Form of a Funnel, smooth on the concave, and full of Pores on the convex Side. The inner and lower Part of the Funnel was of the same Colour with the Stalk; the rest of it was of a Cream-Colour. I have not been able to find, that this Plant has been mentioned by any Author; and am persuaded, that it is a new Species; and, perhaps, the remarkable Branching of the Stalks may induce some to think it a new Genus. As the Funnel may be esteemed a Cap, and as this Cap is not lamellated, it will be a Boletus, according to the Method observed in the Third Edition of Ray's Synopsis. According to L 1 Micheli, [264] Micheli, it seems to belong to the Genus of Polyporus. This Method, which I have long used in the Distribution of this Class, is expressed in the following synoptical Table, which, I think, comprehends all the Species hitherto known. F U N G I sunt, lamellati, cauliferi; AMANITA. sessiles; AGARICOIDES. porosi, cauliferi; BOLETUS. sessiles; BOLETOIDES. cancellati, aut scrobiculis excavati; ex pila erumpentes; PHALLUS. ex pila non erumpentes; MERULIUS. echinati; ERINACEUS. in pulverem abeuntes; LYCOPERDON. SOLIDI, cauliferi; CHANTERELLA. sessiles, calyciformes; PEZICA. non calyciformes, in longitudinem producti; DIGITELLUS. horizontaliter prodeuntes; AGARICUS. subterranei; TUBER. According to this Method of mine, as well as that of the Editor of Ray's Synopsis, the Plant in Question will be a Boletus: And, as I do not think it necessary to constitute a new Genus, I have taken the Liberty to call it BOLETUS caule ramoso; summitatibus concavis expansis; ramis minoribus in acutum mucronem desinentibus. Vide TAB. II. Fig. 1. 5 VI. Philos.Trans. No. 475. TAB. II. Fig. 2. p. 274. W Way from Limington. 140 ~ Buckland Castle. S 240 yd. 220 yd. N 