C 200 1 VI. An Account of some Stones said to have fallen on the Earth in France; and of a Lump of native Iron, said ta have fallen in India. By the Right Hon. Charles Greville, F. R. S. Read January 27, ito8. HE-experiments and observations made by EDWARD HOWARbD Esq. on certain stony and metalline substances said to have fallen on the earth, and the accurate description which the Count de BOURNON has given of those substances, have, in my opinionj fully established the following fact, namely, that a number of stones asserted to have fallen under similar circumstances, have precisely the same characters. The stones from Benares, that from Yorkshire, that from Sienna, and that from Bohemia, were the whole which had then been seen in England. They all contained pyrites of a peculiar character: they all had a coating of black oxide of iron: they all contained an alloy of iron and nickel; and the earths which served to them as a sort of connecting medium, corresponded in their nature, and nearly in their proportions. Since the publication of Mr. HOWARD's and Count de BOURN ON'S observations, I have received from France three additional specimens. Monsieur ST. AMAND very obligingly divided with me a specimen he had broken from a stone of about i5 inches diameter, preserved in the Museum of Bourdeaux, which stone fell near Roqueford, in the Landes, on the 2oth, August, 1789, during the explosion of a meteor; it broke Mr. GREVILLE'S Account of some Stones, &c. 201 through the roof of a cottage, and killed a herdsman and some cattle. M. ST. AMAND also gave me part of a stone he had preserved in his collection ever since the year 1790 when a shower of stones, weighing from I an ounce to 15 and 25 pounds each, fell in the parishes of Grange and Creon, and also in the parish of Juliac, in Armagnac; which fact was, at the time, verified by DUBY, Mayor of Armile, and published by BERTHOLON, in the Journal des Sciences utiles de Montpellier in the -year. 179o. The third specimen, I owe to the Marquis de DREE; it.is a fragment, broken from a stone of 22 pounds weight, which fell near the village Salles, not far from Villefranche in Burgundy, on the t2th of March, 1798; this was also accompanied by a Me teor. I content myself with the mere recital of the facts, in confirmation of the observations presented to the Society, as these three additional specimens have precisely the same characters, texture, and appearance, as the others in my collection; and are scarcely, by the eye, to be distinguished from them. I should not, perhaps, have troubled the Society with this account, as my friend the Marquis de DREE, whose knowledge in mineralogy peculiarly qualifies him to investigate these subjects, has given me hopes of seeing his observations on them published; but a new evidence has lately fallen into my hands, and is the only one I have met with that ascertains the origin of native iron, which, from analysis, had been suspected to have a common origin with the stones fallen on the earth.. Conversing with Colonel KIRKPATRICK, whose researches leave embraced both the literature and politics of India, and whose talents had placed him in very important situations in various MIDCCC1II. D d ~o2 Mr, GREVT LEES Account of some Stones parts of India, I inquired whether he had ever heard'of any instances similar to the explosion of the meteor at Benares in 1798. He told me, he could not recollect having heard or read of any other instance, excepting one in the Memoirs written by the Emperor JEHIANGIRE, and of that he did not recollect the particulars. A few days after, having found the passage in the original Persian, he was so obliging as to translate it. I consider it as an authentic fact; for the Emperor JEHANGIRE wasnot a prince on whomn his courtiers would idly venture to impose; and there can be little probability that an Aumil of a district should invent such a story, or be able to produce a substance apparently like iron, but which, oln trial, differed from manufactured iron. Colonel KIRKPATRICK'S translation, I have obtained his leave to communicate, with his attestation, to the Royal Society. Extractfrom the Memoirs of the Emperor Jehangire, written (in Persian) by himself, and translated by Colonel Kirkpatrick. A. H. 1030, or i6th year of the reign.--The following is among the extraordinary occurrences of this period. Early on the roth of Furverdeen, of the present year,* and in the Eastern quarter, Lof the heavens3 there arose in one of the villages of the Purgunnah of' Jalindher,+ such a great and tremendous noise as had nearly, by its dreadful nature, deprived the inhabitants of the place of their senses. During this noise, a luminous body fwas observed] to fall from above on theThe first of Furverdeen of this year, (A. H. 1030,) corresponded with Saturday, the 27th of Rubbi ill Akhir; consequently, the 30th of Furverdeen fell on the z6th of Juummad ul OuwYul, or A. D. i6zo, t A purgunnah is a territorial division, of arbitrary extent. The purgunnah of Zalindber is situated in the Punjaub, and about Ioo miles S. E. of Lahore. said to havefallen in France, &c. earth, suggesting to the beholders the idea that the firmament was raining fire. In a short time, the/ noise having subsided, and the inhabitants having recovered from their alarm, a courier was dispatched Eby themJ to MAHOMMED SYEED, the Aumil* of the aforesaid Purgunnah,. to advertise him' of this event. Thit Aumil, instantly Xmounting, Chis horse,: proceeded to the spot., [where the luminous body hlad fallenJ. Here he perceived the earth, to the extent of ten or twelve guz,.? in length and breadth, to be burnt to such a degree, that not the least trace of verdure, or a blade of grass remained; nor had the heat fwhich had been communicated to it] yet subsided entirely. MAHOMMED SYEED hereupon directed the aforesaid space of ground to be dug up; when, the deeper it was dug the greater ,was the heat of it found to be. At length, a lump of iron made its appearance, the heat of which was so violent, that one might have supposed it to have been taken from a furnace. After some time it became cold; when the Autmil conveyed it to his ow 1n habitation, fromn whence he afterwards dispatched it, in a sealed bag, to court. Herw I had Lthis substances weighed in my, presence. Its weight was one hundred and sixty tolahs.t I committed it to a skilful artisan, with orders to make of it a sabre, a knife, and a dagger., The workman Vsoon] reported, that the substance was not malleable, but shivered into pieces under the hammer. ? Upon this I ordered it to be mixed w ith other iron. ConAumil is a manager or fiscal superintendant of a district. 4 A guz iS rather less thati a yard. T A tolah is about i8o grains, Troy weight. ?Literally, "it did not stand beteath the hammer, but fell to pieces.3 I) d 2 ?04 Mr. GREVILLE's Account of some ones, &c. formably to my orders, three parts of the iron of lightnIng* were mixed with one part of common iron; and from the mixture were made two sabres, one knife, and one dagger. By the addition of the common iron, the [new] substance acquired a [fine] temper; the blade fabricated from itl proving as elastic as the most genuine blades of Ulmnanny,t and of the South, and bending, like them, without leaving any mark of the bend. I had them tried in my presence, and found them cut excellently; as well Eindeedj as the best genuine sabres. One of these sabres I named Katai, or the cutter; and the other Burk-serisht, or the lightning-natured. A poett composed and presented to me, on this occasion, the following tetrastich. "This earth has attained order and regularity through the "Emperor JEHANGIRE* "In his time fell raw ironfrom lightning: "6 That iron was, by his world-subduing authority, "s Converted Into -a dagger, a knife, and two sabres." The chronogram of this occurrence is contained in the words @ Ail Q R sat which signify " the flame of the imperial light"ning i" and give the year (of the Hegera) 1Q30. N. B. The foregoing translation (which is nearly literal) has been made from a manuscript that has been several years in my possession; and which,although without date, bears marks of having been written at a remote period. WM. KIRKPATRICK. * This expression is equivalent to our term thunder-bolt. t The name of the place here designed is doubtful. :t The poot is named in the original; but the name is not perfectly legible. 