(385) Numb. 22. PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS. Monday, February 11. 1666. The Contents. Trials proposed to be made for the Improvement of the Experiment of Transfusing Blood out of one live Animal into another. A Method for Observing the Eclipses of the Moon, free from the Common Inconveniences. An Account of some Celestial Observations lately made at Madrid. Extract of a Letter, lately written to the Publisher, containing some Observations about Insects and their Inoxiousness, &c. An Account of some Books, vid. I. TOME TROISIEME DES LETTRES' DE M. DESCARTES. II. ASTRONOMIA REFORMATA P. RICCIOLI. III. ANATOME MEDULLAE SPINALIS ET NERVORUM, inde provenientium, GERARDI BLASII, M. D. An Advertisement about the re-printing of M. Evelyns Sylva and pomona. A Table of the Transactions, printed these two years. Tryals proposed by Mr. Boyle to Dr. Lower, to be made by him, for the Improvement of Transfusing Blood out of one live Animal into another; promised Numb. 20. p. 357. THe following Quaeries and Tryals were written long since, and read about a Moneth ago in the R Society, and do now come forth against the Authors intention, at the earnest desire of some Learned Persons, and particularly of the worthy Doctor, to whom they were addressed; who thinks, they may excite and assist others in a matter, which, to be well prosecuted, will require many hands. At the reading of them, the Author declared, that of divers of them he thought he could fore-see the Events, but E e e yet (386) yet judged it fit, not to omit them, because the Importance of the Theories, they may give light to, may make the Tryals recompence the pains, whether the success favour the Affirmative or the Negative of the Question, by enabling us to determine the one or the other upon surer grounds, than we could otherwise do. And this Advertisement he desires may be applied to those other Papers of his, that consist of Quaeries or proposed Tryals. The Quaeries themselves follow. 1. Whether by this way of Transfusing Blood, the disposition of Individual Animals of the same kind, may not be much altered? (As whether a fierce Dog, by being often quite new stocked with the blood of a cowardly Dog, may not become more tame; & vice versa, &c?) 2. Whether immediately upon the unbinding of a Dog, replenisht with adventitious blood, he will know and fawn upon his Master; and do the like customary things as before? And whether he will do such things better or worse at some time after the Operation? 3. Whether those Dogs, that have Peculiarities, will have them either abolisht, or at least much impaired by transfusion of blood? (As whether the blood of a Mastiff, being frequently transfused into a Blood-hound, or a Spaniel, will not prejudice them in point of scent?) 4. Whether acquired Habits will be destroy'd or impair'd by this Experiment? (As whether a Dog, taught to fetch and carry, or to dive after Ducks, or to sett, will after frequent and full recruits of the blood of Dogs unfit for those Exercises, be as good at them, as before?) 5. Whether any considerable change is to be observ'd in the Pulse, Urin, and other Excrements of the Recipient Animal, by this Operation, or the quantity of his insensible Transpiration? 6. Whether the Emittent Dog, being full fed at such a distance of time before the Operation, that the mess of blood may be suppos'd to abound with Chyle, the Recipient Dog, being before ~ will lose his appetite, more than if the Emittent Dogs blood had not been so chylous? And how long, upon a Vein (387) Vein opened of a Dog, the admitted blood will be found to retain Chyle? 7. Whether a Dog may be kept alive without eating by the frequent Injection of the Chyle of another, taken freshly from the Receptacle, into the Veins of the Recipient Dog? 8. Whether a Dog, that is sick of some disease chiefly imputable to the mass of blood, may be cured by exchanging it for that of a sound Dog? And whether a sound Dog may receive such diseases from the blood of a sick one, as are not otherwise of an infectious nature? 9. What will be the Operation of frequently stocking (which is feasible enough) an old and feeble Dog with the blood of young ones, as to liveliness,dulness,drowsiness,squeamishness,&c. et vice versa? 10. Whether a small young Dog, by being often fresh stockt with the blood of a young Dog of a larger kind, will grow bigger, than the ordinary size of his own kind? 11. Whether any Medicated Liquors may be injected together with the blood into the Recipient Dog? And in case they may, whether there will be any considerable difference found between the separations made on this occasion, and those, which would be made, in case such Medicated Liquors had been injected with some other Vehicle, or alone, or taken in at the mouth? 12. Whether a Purging Medicine, being given to the Emittent Dog a while before the Operation, the Recipient Dog will be thereby purged, and how? (which Experiment may be hugely varied.) 13. Whether the Operation may be successfully practis'd, in case the injected blood be that of an Animal of another Species, as of a Calf into a Dog, &c. and of a Cold Animal, as of a Fish, or Frog, or Tortoise, into the Vessels of a Hot Animal, and vice versa? 14. Whether the Colour of the Hair or Feathers of the Recipient Animal, by the frequent repeating of this Operation, will be changed into that of the Emittent? 15. Whether by frequently transfusing into the same Dog, the blood of some Animal of another Species, something further, and more tending to some degrees of a change of Species, may E e e 2 be (388) be effected, at least in Animals near of Kin; (As Spaniels and Setting Dogs, Irish Grey-hounds and ordinary Greyhounds, &c?) 16. Whether the Transfusion may be practis'd upon pregnant Bitches, at least at certain times of their gravidation? And what effect it will have upon the Whelps? There were some other Quaeries proposed by the same Author; as, the weighing of the Emittent Animal before the Operation, that (making an abatement for the Effluviums, and for the Excrements, if it voids any) it may appear, how much blood it really loses. To which were annext divers others not so fit to be perused but by Physitians, and therefore here omitted. 