(49) II. An Account of the sad Mischief befallen the Inhabitants of the Isle. of Sorea, near unto the Molucco's, for which they have been forced to leave their Countrey. Contained in a Letter, written in those Parts, to the Right Worshipful, Nicholas Witzen, Burgermaster of Amsterdam, &c. in the Year 1693. And by him communicated to Dr. Martin Lister, S. R. S. IN the beginning of the Easterly Season, the Isle Sorea, situated towards the South-East of these Islands, consisting for the most part of one Mountain (upon which, according to the Report of the Inhabitants, a huge Brass Bason was by a great Tempest of Thunder set down; which Bason was commonly called Tifa Gonter, and Fifty Years ago broken by those of Ternata, and the Substance of it carried away) which now is more terribly shaken than ever before, casting out abundance of Fire and Smoak, only with some short intermissions. And when the Easterly Wind had blown about six or seven Weeks, till, as I guess, about the fourth of June, the Inhabitants being almost so far used to the Trembling and casting of Fire, that they were careless, the Mountain Sorea began early in the Morning, about Day break, to cast out more Fire than ordinary, which continued for five or six days, during which it was dark and cloudy Weather, till at last it brought forth not only a most prodigious Flame, but also such a black and Sulphurous Vapour, that the Inhabitants of Hislo (being a Village in the Western part of the Island, and nearest to the opening of the Moun(50) Mountain) were wholly covered by it; and afterwards followed a whole stream of burning Brimstone, which consumed many that could not escape. Afterwards the Inhabitants perceived that a part of the said Mountain was sunk down, and three or four days after another part; and so from time to time, until the burning Lake was become almost as great as half of the Island: Wherefore the Inhabitants went on board of their Vessels and Boats, from whence they perceived that huge great pieces of the Mountain fell into this Fiery Lake, as into a bottomless Pit, with a most prodigious noise, as if a whole Canon were discharged. But the most Remarkable thing was, that the more vehement the Fire was, the lesser the Island was shaken. And when the strong Easterly Wind ceased to blow, those who related this, returned by Oren bay to their Countrey-men, who being much terrified, left their Country and their Cattel, and went to Sea with them. The Inhabitants of another Town, called Woroe, upon the East side of the Island, not thinking themselves in so great danger, the Opening or Fiery Lake being yet at some distance, remained a Month longer, until they saw the same continually approaching them: They observed that when great pieces fell down, and that the Lake became wider, the noise was so much the greater: So that they saw no likelihood but that all the Island would be swallowed up. Wherefore they unanimously transported themselves to Banda, leaving all their movables for want of Vessels, and so 131 of them arrived in a small Boat, called Corre Corretje, with a strong Easterly Wind, at Nussalandt, the third day after their departure, and this 18th. of July, here at Amboina, where they seek to settle themselves as well as in their poor condition they can. Several (51) Several Burning Mountains have now been filled up, and quenched; others have begun to open themselves, and to cast out Fire, as in the Isle Chiaus. There is likewise a Burning Mountain upon the Island Celebes. And in an infinite number of places, there is hot Water found, if you dig but Ten Foot deep. In the Mountains of Ternata is always heard a terrible noise, as of the crying of a great many People, caused by the Fire: It often casteth out stones, and is probably exceeding deep, and the rather -because it is likely that the several Burning Mountains of the Molucca Islands are beneath consumed by the same Fire, which joyneth the spacious openings together. The Burning Mountain upon Banda casteth forth a prodigious quantity of Smoak and Ashes, often-times much Fire; and makes a noise as if a great many of the greatest Canon were heard all at once. This Mountain hath cast out so many Stones (and some near six Foot long) that the adjacent Sea, which has been forty or fifty Fathoms deep, is not only filled up there, but become many Fathoms higher than the Water; whereby it may be conjectured how large the inward Cavities of this Mountain are. III. Specimina 