[945] Caroli Drelincurtii Experimenta Anatomica, quibus adiecta sunt plurima Curiosa super Semine Virili, Faemineis Ovis, Utero, Uterique Tubis, atque Faetu. Lugd. Bat. 1684, 12~. THE former, and greater part, of this Book, contains accounts of experiments on Dogs; in which we find the following Observations. A Mastiff bled five pound(Troy weight.)of blood,within the space of half an hour, at severall Arterys. The Ribs of a Dog were found more brittle near that end by which they are joyned to the Vertebrae, then at the other end. A needle being driven into the Brain of a Dog, between the first Vertebra, and the Os Occipitis, the Dog seem'd as if struck with an Epilepsy, and died in a little time. The passage from the Pelvis into the Ureter of a Dog, being stopt, the Kidney of the opposite side was found larger then ordinary, Six veins being tied in a Dog (viz. the 2 Crurales, the 2 Axillares, and the externall Jugulars,) the Dog seemd choak'd in a very little time; the Ligatures being loosd, and blood drawn, the breast moved again. A Procidentia Ani has been causd in a Dog, to the length of a foot. A Dog not much troubled at the pricking of the Meninges, was concernd when the spinal marrow was peirc't. Experiments have been tried by the Author, with Tallow injected into the veins of Dogs. The Venae Mammariae have been observed to communicate with the Epigastricae in a Bitch; for blood was easily pressed from the former into the latter, and backagain. A Phial, which,when fild,containd a pound of rain-water, held one pound and one ounce of Venose blood, of R 2 Arteriose [946] Arteriose blood, and of serum taken promiscuously from both sorts of blood; but it held one pound one ounce and half of grumose blood, clear'd of the serum. The Author affirms that no Lacteals arise either from the stomack, or Intestina Crassa. Valves are observ'd in the farther part of the Ductus Thoracicus, near its ending in the Subclavial Vein; contrary to what is affirmd by some Anatomists. The Valves, lying in pairs in the Ductus Thoracicus,are generally an Inch and half one pair from another. One Kidney has been found 8 times bigger and heavier, in a Dog, then the other. The Author asserts that the Lacteals impart no Liquor to the Pancreas Asellii. Their Origine has been traced as far as the Glandulose Tunic of the Intestines. There are severall other observations mentioned, concerning the Lacteals, the Ductus Thoracicus, and the valve at the end of it; beside all which the Publisher of this book, Ernestus Gotfried Heyseus of Dantzick, assures us, that the learned Author has a vast stock of Observations by him; which very much advance Physiological, and Pathological Physic, and as such cannot but be very welcome to the Curious Reader, when ever the Author shall think fit to present them to the world. There follow severall Quaeries de Semine Virili; de Faemineis Ovis, vel in Ovario,vel extra; de Utero: to which are subjoyned some Corollarys concerning the Human Faetus, whom he will not allow to have a Allantois, or Urachus 