(3035) Some further Observations of Mr. John Templer, about the shining of Glow-worms *. *See Numb.72. of these Tract I Have now sent you what my Journal will further afford upon that subject, I wrote to you formerly of. June 1. 71. Upon several tryalls of different positions, I find the Glow-worm not to shine sometimes when in motion, but I could never yet see her shine, when not in motion of some part. June 8. 1671. after some days absence from home, putting the Glow-worm into an Urinal of white Glass at 9 a clock at night, she crawled nimbly in it, and extended her self beyond an ordinary length; yet her shining not so clear,as in her box when opened: Putting the urinal into the water for about 1/2 an hour, it gave a very delightful irradiation of the water. When this light seemed wholly extinct, although she was in motion, if I depressed the urinal into the water, till the bottom almost touched the bottom of the bason, I could (upon looking in at the top of the urinal) see a very fair light, but upon lifting the glass out of the water, I could discern very little shining; Then putting her into her box, she did in about a minutes time (for I tryed it twice over by a watch,) almost ten times increase her former shining in the urinal. June 14.71. After a second absence, the worm seemed dead, and being shut in a box, would give no light through it betwixt 9 and 12 a clock at night; but in the uncovered box, or in the urinal she did shine faintly, and the light was of a far different colour from what it was formerly. June 15. 71. She seemed dead. I touched her with a needle gently, whereupon she stretched out one of her legs, and by it (when I inclined the position of the box) she stayed her whole body from falling; whereas before she rowled from one side of the box to the other,as I inclined or reclined it. Note,that B b b b before (3036) before I pricked her, she did give a little shining in her uncovered box,but none through the urinal; only if you looked in at top, a little shining was seen. Upon pricking her I did not see her shining encreased. June 16.71. I discerned a little shining only within her box; upon pricking I could discern no motion in her; but the scale next her tayl was sensibly more extended a1/4 of an hour after I pricked her,than before. NB. These last three days, she lay continually upon her back with her legs contracted, except only the time mentioned June 15 of my pricking her. I am afraid to conclude her dead. June 16,having been informed by M.Th. Hallebeck of Cald Newton near Meltan Mawbury, that he kept a glow-worm near 6 months in his parlour window,which would sometimes seem dead for many days together (if I mistake not, he said weeks) and afterwards walk and shine both.However I should be infinitely obliged to any one for favouring me with the characteristick note of a Glow-worm's being dead 24 hours before her shining ceased, that I might know when to conclude one dead in good earnest; for I am promised in a little time some stock of these Insects, which, I hope, may give the advantage of further and more steady observations. An Accompt 