P R E S E N T S RECEIVED BY THE. ROYAL SOCIETY Fro November 1819 to yuly i81o. WITH THE NAMIES OF THE DONORS. $'1 8I9, PRESENTS. DON7k S IVov 4* Philosophie Anatomique des Organes RespiraLe Chev. Geoffroy St. toires. Paris, i8i8. 80 Hilaire. Additional Experiments on the Arteries of warm Dr. C. H. Parry. blooded Animals. London, i819. 8" .Observations made at Lautenberg with the Zenith Professor Schuniackea'. Sector belonging to the Board of Ordnance in 1819i MS. ! F Del Proteo Anguino di Laurenti. Monografia Professor Configliacht publicata da P. Configliachi e M, Rusconi. and Dr. Rusconi. Pavia, i 8 1 9. 4t Flora Batava. No, 5. 40 H. M. the King of the Netherlands. Abbandlungen der Koniglichefi Akademie der The Royal Academy of Wissenchaftea in Berlin aus den Jahren x8i6Sciences of Berlin; 1817. Berlin, i8i9. 4" Memoiies de l'Academie Royale des Sciences de The Royal Academy of Turin', Tome 22, pour les Annees 18i3-I8i4. Sciences of Turin. Turin, i8i6. 40 Memorie dellai Reale Accadenmia delle Scienze di . Torinio, Tromo 230, Torino, 18I8. 40 Prospefto delle Letture della Sezionle di Padova di The Royal Caesarian InCesareo.Regio Instituto di Scienze Letture ed stitute of Sciences LiArti nel Corso del Anno Accademico t8i6terature and Arts at 18I7. Padova, 1817. F" Padua. Prospetti de'Risultamenti ottenuti nella Clinica Medica di I. R. Universita di Padova nel Corso del' Anni ScolasticiI 815 -18I7. Padova, 1817. z vols. s8 Memorie Medico^Clinichi per servire d' Interpretazione ai Prospetti Clinici. Padova, i8i6. 8" 31D C ccx Xx l~l9.t PRESENTS DONORS" NoV. 4 Jordani Ruffi Calabriensis Hippiatria. Patavii, Dr. Jerome Maolin 8i8. 8g Adversaria Zoologica, Auctore Gotthelf Fischer. Dr. G. Fischer. Fasciculus primus. 4 Essai sur la Pellegrina, ou la Perle incomparable des Freres Zozitna, p)ar G. Fischer. Moscow, i8i8. 80 Memoire sur la Construction des Instrumens a Mr. Felix Savart. Cordes et a Archet, par Felix Savart, M. D. Paris, I 8 I 9. 8O Rotuli Scotiat in Turri Londinensi et in Domo The Commissioners of CapitulariWestmonasteriensi asservati. Vol. z, Public Records, 1819. F The Transactions of the Linnean Society of LonThe Linnean Society. don, Vol. 12, Part 2. London, i 8si. 40 A Memoir on the Birds of Greesnland, with DeCaptain Edward $ai3ne. scriptions and Notes on the Species observed in the late Voyage of Discovery itn Davis' Straits and Baffin's Bay, by Captain Edward Sabine, R. A. Lonlon, i 19. 4( Observations Introductory to a Work on English John Thomnson, Esq. Etymoio;'y, by John Thomson, M. A. S. &c. London, 1819. 40 An Inquiry inlto the Nature and Properties of the C. Turner Thackrah, Blood, as existent in Health and Diseas, by Esq. C. Turner Thackrah. London, 1819, 80 Lectules onl-the Blood and'on the Anatomy, Phy. James Wilson, Esq. siology, atd surgical Pathology of the vascular System of the hurnmain Body, 1by James Wilson, F.R S London, 1819. 80 An LEssay oii Chemical Analysis, chiefly translated John Geo-Children, Esq. from the 4th Vol. of the last Edition of the Traite de Chimie El6mentaire (f L. J. Thenard, with Additions, comprehending the latest Discoveries and Improvements in this Branch. of the Science, by John George Children, F. R.S.London, 1819. 80 A Treatise on the Nature and Cure of Gout and Dr Charles Scudanore, Rheumatism, including general Considerations ,on morbid : tates of the digestive Organs, sotne Remarks on Regimen, and practical Observations on Gravel, by Charles Scudatnore, M. D. 3d Edition. London, 1819. 80 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions Vo .io, Part ;. The Medical and ChirurLondon, I8I9. 80 gical Society of London. Speech of Lieut, General William Thornton in Lieut. General William the House of Commons, on Thursday, 7th Thornton. May, on his Motion to Repeal the Declarations against the Belief of Transubstantiation, and asserting the worship of the Church of Rome to be Idolatrous, with Authorities and Illustrations, Deduction and Conclusion. London, 88. o 35 18X9. PRESENTS DONOR' . N'av 4. A History of the high Operation for the Stone J. C. Carpue, Esq. by Incision above the Pubis, with Observations on the Advantages attending it, and an Account of the various Methods of Lithotomy, from the earliest Periods to the present Time, by J. C.-Carpue, Esq. London, 1819. 80 Tlhe Ouarterly Journal of Literature Science and The Managers of the the Arts, No. ; . 80 Royal Institution. Annals of Philosophy, No. 80-83. 83 Dr. Thomas 'Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. :?g5 to z58. 80 Mr. Alexander Tilloch The Monthly Review for July, August, SepMr. GeorgeEdw'ard tember, and October, and Appendix toVol. 89. 80 Griffitlhs. The European M\agazine for July, August, Sep. The Editor. tember, and Ocober. 80 :x. Surgical Essays by Astley Cooper, F. R. S. &c. Astley Cooper and Benand Benjamin Travers, F. R. S. &c. Part z. jamin Travers, Esq. London, 1819. 8o 25. The Statutes of the Realm, printed by Command The Commissioners o. of H. M. King GeorgeIf. in pursuance of an Public Records. Address of the House of Commons of Great Britain, Volumes 4, S and 6. i8i9. F0 A Sketch (analytical) of the History and Cure of Dr. Robert Jackson. Contagious Fever, by Robert Jackson, M. D. London, 1i819, 8 Medical TFopography of Upper Can ada, by John John Douglas, Esq. Douglas, Assistant Surgeon, 8th Regiment. 8o A Colmentary on the Systems which haye been Captain James Burney. advanced for explaining the Planetary Motions, by James Burriey, Esq R. N. and F. R. S. London, i8i9. 8? De l'Auscularion mediate, ou Traite du Dia. M. R. T. H. Laennec. gnostic des Maladies des Pournons et du Ccur, fond6e principalement sur ce nouveau Moyeni d'Exploration, par R. 1. H. Laennec. Paris, ?819. SQ Dec. 9. The Ordnance Survey of Great Britain, Part i to 7j Major General Mudge, comprising Essex, Devonshire, Cornwall, Dorsetshire, Sussex, Surry, and Wiltshire. Esprit, Origine, et Progres des Institutions des Chev J. D. Meyer. principaux Pays de lVurope, par J. D. Meyer. Londres, 181g. z Vols. 80 Elements of a. Plan for thew Li(uidation of the Richard Heathfield, Esq. public Debt -of the United Kingdom, by Richard Heathfield, Gent, London, 181g. 8? Annals of Philosophy. No. 84. Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine. No. 259. Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review tor November, Mr. George Edward Griffiths. The E uropean MMagazine for November. The Editor. 6. M6meoires de l'Academie Royale des Sciences de The Royal Inst'ute of l'Institut de France, ann&e I817, To . Frac. Paris, 1819e. 336 3 18 9. PRESES NTS. 0 Dec, 23 Ensaio Historico sobre a Origern e Progressos das D. Francis de Bor-4j Mathematicas em Portugal, por Francisco de Garqo StocklerI Borja Gargao Stockler. Paris 1 819. Legao XII. dos Ele nentos de Geornetria Philos o phica escritos por Francisco de Borja Stockiler a qual tem por titolo das Correla oes que existem entre as Operayoes elementares da Technia Geometrica e da Technia Algebraica. Lisboa, 1819. Account of a Voyage of Discovery to the West Captain Basil Hall, R.N. Coast of Corea and the Great Loo Choo Island, with an Appendix, &c. by Captain Basil Hall, R. N. London, x81 . Voyage to Corea and the Island of Loo Choo, y by Captain Basil Flal4 R, N. a New Edtiion. Lordon, i8zo,, 12 1820. Yan. i3. Traite complette de Mecanique appliquee aux M. J. A. Borgnis. Arts, &c. Vol. 6 des Machines employees dans divers Fabrications, par M. J. A. Borgnis. Pari j 1819. 4? Medico-Chirurgical Transactions published by The Medical and Chithe Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, rurgical Society of Vol. io, Part 2, London, 1zo. 8Q London. Nine Charts, viZ, of Gaspar Straits, Carimata James Horsburgh, Esq. Passage, West part of Kilo Leet, Lucepar Channel, Romania Channel, Sinigapore New Settlement, Saniangca Bay, Coloonibyan I ar. bour, and Survey of the entrance of Hologley River, by Jame-, Horsburgh, Esq. Memoire sur l'Utilite des Pieces cd'Anatomic M, J. F. Ameline. artificielle chirurgicale, par J. F. Ameline, Paris, tS.X9. g The Quarterly Journal of Literature Science an d The Managers of the the Arts, No. i6. 5o Royal Institution. A nals of Philosophy, No. 85. 80 Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. z6o. 80 Mr. Alexander ITilloch. The Monthly Review for Decei ber. 8' Mr. George Edward Griffiths. The European Magazine for December. 80 The Editor. The London Magazine, No. x. 80 The Editors. A Treatise on Nervous Diseases, by John Cooke, Dr. John Cooke. M. D. Vol. . London, 1 82o, 5o A Dissertation on the Disorder of Death, or that he Rev. Walter Whiter. State of the Frame under the Signs of Death called suspended Animation, &c. by th Rev. Walter Whiter. Norwich, i8i9. O 20. E-perienze ed Osservazione sul Galvanismo, Me. Dr Carlo Francesco moria del Sig. Carlo Francesco Bellingeri, M.D. Bellingeri, 40 U 337 8 20 PR ESEXTS. DONORS. Yan. o. Caroli Francisci Josephi Bellingeri Dissertatio Dr. Carlo Francesco Chemica Inauguralis quam publice defendebat Bellingeri. in Regio Atheneo 9 Maii, 18i8. Augustae Taurinorum, i.Si8. 80 Re'glenment de la Socidete d'Jnstruction Medicale, .I Leroux, Doyen de la par Le Chev. J. J. Leroux. Paris, 188 i S. Faculte deMedecine 'a Paris.. Travels in Nubial by the late John Lewis Burcik The Commi-ttee of the hardt, published, by the Association for ProAssociation for Promotinig the Discovtry of the Interior parts of moting the Discovery Africa London, 189. I9 of the Interior Parts of Africa. Feb. 17. Flora Batava, No. 5 i4. IM, The King of the Netherlands. Zoogr osia Tahulis Synoptrics illustrata in usunm Dr. Gotthielf Fischer. Praelectionum Acadefei Imper, Med, (.Thirurg. Mosquensis edita. Auct. Gotthelf Fischer. A.osqulx, 1813 et 1814 3 vols. 40 and 8c Notizen iiber dic Mifncralien Saumrnlnng S. ExMr. Joseph Frederick ellenz des Herren Drs. Alexaniders Von CrichWagner. ton, von Joseph Frederick W aginer. MWskwa, 1818. 40 An Accouirt of thle vaciolid Epidemfic which has Dr. John Thomr(n . lately prevailed in Ediniburgh ancd other Parts of Scottandi, wirth Observatlonls o1n the Iden)tity of Ch 'cken Pox with mnodified Small Pox ; in a Letter to Sir James iM'Grigor, by John Thomson, M. D. London, i82o. 80 Annals of Philosophy, No. 86. 8' Dr. Thomas Thomson Trhe Philosophi'cal Mag-azin?, No. 26i. 89 Mr. Alexander Tilloch. Tbhe Monthly Review for J'anuary, and Appe ndix -Mr. George Edward to Vol. 90. 8V Griffiths. The Europg an Magazine for January. 80 The Editor. The London 1Magazilne, NO. 2. 8u The Editors, An Initrodluction to Solid Geomntry, and to the Mr. N.J. Larkin. Study of ystallography, containing an Investigat.on of some of the Properties beloDging to the Platonic Bodies independent of the Sphere, by N. J. Larkin, M. G. S. London, 8 zo. 80 A View of the Lead Minies of the Missouri, inDr. David -osac. cluding somTie Obset-vations on the Mimteralogy, Geology, GeOgrca phy, A ntiquities, Soil, Climate, Population, and Productions of Missouri and Arkansaw, anid other Sections of the Wes. terni Country, by Henry R. Schoolcraft. New York, IS 19. 8 A BiographicalI Memoir of H-ugh Williamson, M. 1). LL. D ,,by David luiosac ,. D. New York, 1820. so Bibliothec"a MIS. Sto'wensis. A Descriptive CataThe Marquis of BuCk. loguM of the Manuscripts in the Stow Library, ingham. by the Rev. Charles O'Connor, D. D. Buckingham, i 8i, 2 Vols. [ 338 4,2 1820. P RESENTS. DONORS. Mar, z. The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical EpheThe Commissioners of meris for i8zz. 8? Longitude. A Catalogue of the Lansdown Manuscripts in The Commissioners of the British Mnseum, with lindexes of Persons, Public Records. Places, and Matters, printed by command of Ht. M. King George II. Parts i and 2. i8i, 1819. Annals of Philosophy, No. 87. 39 Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. z62z 8? Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review fir February. Mr. George Edward Griffiths. The European Magazine for February. The Editor. The London Magazine. No. 3. The Editors. Meteorological Journal kept on, board the Marine The Committee of GoSociety's Ship off Deptford Creek in the years vernors of the Marine 18i6, 1817, 18I8, 1819. MS. Society. Transactions of the Society instituted at London The Society for Encoufor the Encouragemient of Arts Manufactures ragement of Arts, &c. and Commerce, Vol. 37. London, i8zo. 80 9. Annales des Mines ou Recueil de Mernoires sur Conseil General des l'Exploitation des Mines et sur les Sciences qui Mines de France. s'y ra)pportent. Ann6e i8i8, Liv. 2, 3, et 4, et Annee i8ig, Liv. 1, 2, 3. Paris. so De' Contagi e de 1a cura di loro Effetti, Lezione I1 Cay. Valeriano Luigi Medica Practiche del Cav. Valeriano Luigi Brera. Brera, M. D. Paciova, 18 I9. 2 Vols. 80 Prospetti de' Risultamente ottenuti nella Clinica Medica delP' 1. R. Universita di Padova nel Anni Scolastice, iog9-1816 del Sig. V. L. Brera, MAf.D. Padova, i816 e 19317. 2 VOls, 80 Prospetto della Letture della Sezione di Padova del Caesareo Reg. Inscituto di Scienze Lettere ed Arti nel corso del' Anino Accademico i8i61817. Padova, 1817. 40 Statuta della 1. R. Accademia di Scienze Lettere ed Arti di Padova, e Catalogo degli Accademici, Padova, i 8 6. 40 April 13. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of The Academy of Natural Philadelphia, Vol. i, part 2. Philadelphia, Sciences, Philadelphia. I8I8. 8? A Journal of Science Literature and the Arts, The Managers of the No. 7. 0-8 Royal Jnstitution, Annals of Philosophy, No. 88. 80 Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophieal Magazine, NO. 263. 80 Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review tor March. 80 Mr. George Edward Griffiths. The European Magazine for March. 80 The Editor. The London Magazine, No. 4. 80 The Editors. Notice sur l'Archipel de Jean Potocki situe dans M. Jules Klaproth. la Partie septentrionale de Ia Mer Jaune, par Jules Klaproth, avec une Carte. Paris, iBao. 40 L33 1820 PR SE NTS. DONORS. April 3. General Views of the Application of Galvanism Mr. John Aldini, to Medical Purposes, principally in Cases of Suspended Animation, by John Aldini. London, i81g. -0 27. Commentationes Societatis Regim Scientiarum The Royal Society of Gottingensis RecentioresVolumen4 ad A. i8i6Sciences of Gottingen. s8x8. Gottingae, x8zo. 40 Jo. Frid. Blumenbachii decas sexta Collectionis Professor J. F. Blumensuae Craniorum diversarum Gentiumn illiustrata. bach. Gottingx, i82z. 40 MaY 4. A Dictionary of the Chinese Language, contain, The Court of Directors ing all the Characters which oc( ur in the of the Hon. East India original Chinese Dictionary, in 3z Volumes, Company. compiled in 1716, by order of H. M. KangHHe, Emperoof China, by the Rev. R. Morrison, Vol. i, part 3 Macao, I 8 i S. 40 Annals of Philosophy, No. 79. 80 Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 264. 8o Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review for April. s0 Mr. George Edward Griffith. The Europeat Magazine for April. S" The Editor. The London Magazine, No. s. 80 The Editors. i .x Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. 4. The Horticultural SoPart x. London,. 820. 40 ciet Geological Map of England in 6 Sheets and G. B. Greeneugh, Esq. Memoir of a Geological Map of England, to which are added an Alphabetical Index to the Hills, and a List of the Hills arrange d according to Counties, by G. B. Greenough, Pres. Geol, Soc. &c. London, I8zo. 40 The Modern London Catalogue of Books, with, Mr. William Bent. their Sizes, Prices, and Publishers, London, i1Si 88 Vindiciz Geologic-,e or the Connection of Ge. Rev. William Buckland. ology with Religion explained, in an Inaugural Lecture delivered before the University ot Oxford, Msy S, 1819, o0l the Endowmnent of a -Readership in Geology, by H. R. H. the Prince Regent; by the Rev. W. Buckland, B. D. &c. Oxford, iOzo. 40 iS, Mmoire sur la Digue de Cherbourg comparee au M. J. M. F. Cachin. Breakwater ou Jetee de Plymouth, par J. M. F. Cachin. Paris, i82o. 40 Su la Falsita dell' Origine. Scandinava data ai Sig. Jacopo Gr~berg di Popoli detti Barbari che distrussero 1 fmnpero, Hemsd. di Roma, Dissertazione Istorica di Jacopo Gra'. berg di l-iem6s. Pisa, i8 i 8o Appellation an Parlement de la Grande Bretagne, M. Hoene Wronsky. by Hcene Wronski. London, I8ZO0 120 A journey in Carniola, Italy, and France, in the W. A. Cadell, Esq. years 1817 at d iSi8, containing remarks relating to Language, Geography, History, AnI 820. PR ESENTS. DONOR S tiquities, Natural History, Science,, Painting, Sculpture, Architecture, Agriculture, the Mechanical Arts andManufactures, by W. A. Cadell, Esq with Engraving?. Ediniburgh, 18zo. z ~Vols .8 A Circumstantital and Explanatory Account of Lieut. Col. John MacExperiments lately made with a View of ascerdonald. taining the comparative Accuracy of the relative Times of Burning of Fuzes, &c. with an Appendix on the present state of Telegraphic Communication in this Country, by John Macdonald, Esq. London, 58i9. 80 MEAETH THW KOINH: EAAHNIKH:: Mr. P. Codrika. AIAAEKTOm, or Study of the Modern Greel Langnage, by P. Codrika, Vol. i. Paris, i I 8. 8. une x. Astronomical Observations made at the I adcliffe The Trustees under the Observatory at Oxford, from May I, 58I9, to Will of the late Dr. May sI I82o, by and under the direction of the Radcliffe Rev. Abram Robertson, D. D.F. R. S. Say. Prof. of Astron. and Radcliffian Observer. MS. Transactions of the Geological Society, established The Geological Society, Nov. 13, 1807, Vol. 5, Part i . London, 8 1 9 4 Traite complet de MeNcanique applquee anx Arts, M. J. A. Borgnis. par M, j. A. Borgnis, Vol. 7 l~es Macbin s serveant 'a confectioner les Etoffes. Paris, 8zo, 40 Essays on the Combinatorial Analysis, showing Mr. Peter Nicholson. its Application to some of tne most useful and interesting Problems of Algebra, by Peter Nicholson. London, i8iS. 8 Essay on Involuition and Evolution, containing a new general and accurate Method of .scer. taiming the numerical Value of any Furnctions of an unknown Quantity, by P. N!Icholson. London, J820o 8 The Rudiments of Algebra, by P. Nicholson. London, 189 I20 Annals of P'hilosophy, No. go. 80 Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 265. So Mr. Alexander 'Pilloch. The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Mr. George Edward Vol. 9 1. 80 Griffiths. The London Magazine, No. 6. 8s The Editors. The European Magazine for May. 8? The Editor. S. Flora Batava, No. 5t6. 40 H. M. The King of the Netheriands. The Ordnance Survey of Great Britain, part 8. Captain Thomas Colby, Report of the Lords Committees appointed to Lord Redesdale. search the Journals of the House lolls of Parliament and other Records and Documents for all Matters touching the Dignity of a Peer of the Realm, &c. May as, s8o,7 F' L34~ ) i8Zo. PRESENTS. DONORS. rune z. The Hunterian Oration delivered before the Royal Anthony Carlisle, Esq College of Surgeons in London, on Monday, February 2I , i8z0o, by Anthony Carlisle, Esq. F.R.S. London, i8zo. 4? Lettera di Francesco Gianpietri intorno alle MoSig. Francesco GiJainete Aragonie<<euiltimameiti trovati nella Cupra pietri. di St, gfrem, a11' Excellentissimo Cavaliere Luigi de' Medici. Naples, 18I9. 4? Annals of Orenital Literature, Part x. For June The Editor. 1820O. 86 Annals of Philosophy, No. 9I. 8' Dr. Thomas Thomson. The London Magazine, No. 7. The Editors. On Cihrc lar Polarisation, as exhibited in the Dr. David Brewster. Optical Structure of the Amethyst, with Remarks on the Distribution of the Colouring Matter in that Mineral, by David Brewster, LL.D. Edinburgh, 1820. 70Y 7. AION\TnOI0T AAIKAPTNA EQ: PQMAH. R. H. the Archdtuke IKHI APXAIOAOPIAX TA MEXPI Maximilian. TOTAE EAAEIHONTA. Dionysii Halicarnassei Romanarum Antiquitatum Pars hactenus desiderata nunc denique ope Codicum Ambrosionaruim ab Angelo Maio, Ambrosiani Collegih Doctore, quantum licuit restituta. Opus Fraincisco I. Augusto sacrum. MediolAni, I8I6. 4 Eusebii Pamphili Chronicorum Canonum Libri Duo. Opus ex Halicanro Codice a Doctore Jo.hanne Zohrabo Collegii Armeniaci Venetiarum Alumno diligenter expressum et casti gatum, Angelus Maius et Johannes Zohrabus nunc primu , cojunctis Curis Latinitate donatum Notisque illustratum, additis Graecis Reli. quiised'dertnt. Mediolani, xix8. 4? M. Tullii Ciceronis sex Orationumr Partes ante _ niostrati, Actatem ineditx cum anrtiquo interprete ante nostrirn item Aetatem inedito qui videtur Asconius Ped-jinus ad Tullianas septem Orationes. Accedunt Scuolia minora vetera. Editio altera qu m ad Codices Ambrosianos recensuit emendavit et uxit ac Descriptione Codicum CXLIX Vita Ciceronis aliisque Additamentis instruxit Angelis Maius, Amb. Colleg. Doct. Mediolaii, 1817. Isocratis Orario de Permnutatione, cuj 5s Pars ingen; prirunu Grxce edita ab Andrea Mustoxido, nune primum Latine exhibetur ab Anonyymo Interprettr,1qi et 'Noras et Appendices adiunuxit. Mediolani, 1813. 80 M Cornelii Frontonis Opera inedita, cum Epis.tolis item ineditis Antonhi~i Pi, M. Aurelli L. Veri, et Appiani, nei4 non Aliorum Veterum 54/DCCCXX. Y y I82o. PRTSENTSDON0RS. July 7. Fragmentis invenit et Commentario praevio Notisque illustravit Angelus Maius Bibliotheca AivSbrosianae aLinguis Orientalibhus Cui adduntur seu, edita seu cognita ejusdem Fron. tonis Opera. Mediolanli, 1815. z Vols, 89 Philonis Judaci de Copheni Festo et de Colenidis H. R. . .The Archduke Parentibus, cum brevi Scripto de Iona, Editore Maximilian. et Interprete Angelo Maio, A. C. D. Reg. Belg. Inst. Sod. ad Leopoldum Principem Etrurit Heredem. Mediolani, i8 8QiS. Virgilii Maronis Interpretes veteres Asper Cornutus, Hasterianus Longus, Nisus Probus, Scaurus Sulpicius, et Anonymus, edente notisque illustrante Angelo Maio, A. C. D. Reg. BeIg. Inst. Sod. ad Leopoldum Principemn, Etruriax Heredem. Mediolani, 1818. '. UOP4FTPIOT DI4AO:OWOT 1PO(:5 MAPKEAAAN. Porphyrii Philosophi ad Marcellazm, invenit Interpretatione Notisque declaravit Angelus Maius, A. C. D. Acad. R. Monce Sod. Accedit ejusdem Porphyrii Poeticum Fragmentum, Mediolani, i8i6. 4 De Philonis Judxei et Eusebii Pamphili Scriptis ineditis Aliorumrque Libris ex Armeniaca Lingua convertendis Dissertatio, cum ipsorum Operum Philonis ac prasertim Eusebii Specimninibus. scribente Angelo Maio, A. C. D. ex Notitia sibi ab Armeniacorum Codicum Dominis impertita. Mediolani, i8i66 80 Q Aurelii Summachi, V. C. Octo Orationum ineditarum Partes, invenit Notisque declaravit Angelus Maius, Bibliothecz Ambrosianae a L[nguis Orientalibus. Accedunt Additamenta quaedam. Mediolani, i8 i. 80 Itinerarium Alexandri ad Constantium Augustum, Constantini M. Filium, edente nunc primum cum Notis Angelo Maio, Amb. Coll. Doct. Mediolani, 1817 . ->IBTAAHM AorOs iA. Sibyllae LiberXIV. Editore et Interprete Angelo Maio, Amb Coll. Doct. Additur Sextus Liber et Pars Octavi, cum multa Vocum et Versuum Varietate. Mediolani, 1817. 4-1 M. Acci Plauti Fragmenta inedita, item ad P. Terentium Commentationes et Picturae ineditae, Inventore Angelo Maio, Bib. Ambros A. LL. Or, Mediolani, i8i . S. aIEOT Aoro:F HEPI TOT KAEQNTMOT KAHPOT. Isaei Oratio de Hereditate Cleonymi nunc primnum duplo Auctor Inventore et Interprete Angelo Maio, Bib. Amb. A. LL. OR. Mediolani, x i5. 8$ E 343 1 82o. PRESENTS. DONORS. July 7. Julii Valerii Res Gestae Alexandri Macedonis H. R. H. The Archduke translara ex Aesopo Graeco, prodeunt nunc Maximilian. primum, edente Notisque illustrante Angelo Maio, A C D, Mediolani, 1817. 40 -)EMI>TlOT i)IAO1O4OT AroPz UPo' j TOT1C Al'rIASAMENOT:2 EmI TQI AE.AMEAI THN APXHN. Themistii Phi. losophi Oratio in eos a quibus ob Prxtecturam susceptam fuerat vitiperatus, Inventore et Interprete Angelo Maio, Bib. Amb. A. Ll,. OR. Mediolari, s8i6. 80 Lettera di Pietro Giordani al chiarissimo Abate Giambatista Canova, sopra ii Dionigi trovato dali' Abate Mai. Milano, 1817. 8? Theorie Analytique des Probabilites, par M. Le The Marquis deLaplace. Marquis de Laplace, 3eme Edition. Paris, i8zo. p~~~~~~~~~ 4? A Treatise on the Anchor, shewing how the Richard Pering, Esq. component Parts should be combined to obtain the greatest Power and most perfect Holding, with a Table of Dimensions, &c. Alto some Observations on the Chain Cable, by Richard Pering, Es(. Plymouth Dock, 819. S A Brief Inquiry into the Causes of Premature Decay in our Woooen Bulwarks, with an Examination, of the Means best calculated to prolong their Dnration, by Richard Pering, Esq. Plymouth Dock, I8iz. 8? On the Preservation of the British Navy when in a State of Ordinary, by R. Pering, Esq. 1813. 80 A Reply to the Strictures in the Q.arterly Review on Indian built Ships, to which are annexed economical Recommendations for effectually preserving the British Navy onl the return of Peace, &c. By Richard Pering, Esq. Plymouth Dock, i8I48 A Journal of Science, Literature, and the Arts, The Managers of the No. i$, $? Royal Institution. Annals of Philosophy, No 9i. 8o Dr. Thomas Thomson. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 766. 8o Mr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review for June So Mr. George Edward Griffiths. The European Magazine for June. 8? The Editor. The London Magazine, No. 7. So The Editors. IND EX TO THB PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1820. A page Alburnum, upon the different qualities of the alburnum of spring and winter-felled oak-trees 156 Aneurismal tumor, a description of a deposit of crystals found in one, 3 Apopyllite, of its anomalous tints, 76 the only crystal with one axis, whose tints exhibit a sensible deviation from the scale of Newton, 91 its tints commence at the centre of the rings and increase in regular progression outwards, 91 Astronomical observations, 330 B Baakerian Lecture, by WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq. Sec. R.Se ' S 11 Barometer, thermometrical, a description of some improvements made in this instrument, 303 BAUER, FRANCIs, Esq. Some experiments on the fungi which constitute the colouring matter of the red snow discovered in Baffin's Bay, 165 Blood, a farther investigation of its component parts, 1 an experiment to ascertain whether the proportion of aeriform matter in the blood is liable to vary, a 6 coagula of, examination of those formed in aneurismal tumors, INDEX BRANDE, WILLIAM THOMAS, Esq. The Bakerian Lecture. On the composition and analysis of the inflammable gaseous compounds resulting from the destructive clistillation of coal and oil, with some remarks on their relative heating and illuminating powers, 11 Breathing, the effect of an interminable contest betwveen the elasticity of the lungs and the irritability of the diaphragm, 43 BREWSTER) DAVID, LL. D. Extracts of two letters from him, on the deviation of the tints from Newvton's scale, 94 C CARSON, JAMES, M. D. On the elasticity of the lungs, 29 Chocks, or wedge pieces, first introduced in naval arclhitecture, about the year 1744, 135 --oreason of their introduction, 135 .......-the substitution of coaks or dowels for them recommended137 Chronometers usedat sea, their rates affected by the iron in the ships, 196 Coal and oil, experiments on the inflammable gases afforded by their destructive distillation 11 COLEMAN, GEORGE, Esq. His communication of some tables showing the rates of chronometers, 208 Corpora cavernosa, their cellular structure explained, 188 Corpus spongiosum,, the particulars in whi ch its structure differs from that of the corpora cavernosa, 190 Croonian Lecture. By Sir EvE RARD HOME, Bart. Crystals, of the general phenomena of those which (levelope tints deviating from NNEWTON'S scale, by exposure to polarised light, 5 on the causes which produce the above iheno. men a in, crystals, 62 oni the tints develtoped by those with twot axes out' of the principal section1, 73 of' a secondary cause of the deviation of tints subsisting in certain crystals, and of the anomalous tints of the apophyllite, 76 (rystalli zed bodies, on their action upon homogencous lio-ht, and on the causes of the deviation from NEwTON's scale, inl the tints whiich many of them develope on exposure to a l)olariseci ray, 45 INDEX. D page DAVY, EDMUND, Esq. On some combinations of platinum, 108 Deafness, instances of a particular species of partial deafness, or insensibility of very acute sounds, 310 Dugong, some account of that animal, 174 -a description of its external appearance, 175 -dissection of it, 177 -its food, 179 never found on land, or in fresh water, but ge. nerally in the shallows and inlets of the sea, 180 its dimensions, 181 the ventricles of the heart of this animal comnpletely detached, 319 particulars respecting the anatomy of this animal, intended as a supplement to Sir T. S. RAFFLES' account, 315 --on the milk tusks and organ of hearing of this animal, 144 -a section of the milk tusk of the narwhal and of the elephant, compared with a similar section of that of the dugong, 147 Dugong Ikan, considered by the Malays as a royal fish, 180 the Malays distinguish two varieties, the dugong bumban, and the dugong buntal 180 E Eustachian tube, is closed by suddenly checking the effort of inspiration, 309 is opened by swallowing or incipient yawning, 309 F FISHER, GEORGE, Esq. On the errors in longitude as determined by chronometers at sea, arising from the action of the iron in the ships upon the chronometers, 196 Ietus, human, a case of one found in the ovariunm, of the size it usually acquires at the end of the fourth month, 101 Frames, or ribs of ships, a new principle of uniting them recommended, 134 INDEX. G page Gases, inflammable, experiments on those afforded by the destructive distillation of pit coal and of oil, 11 Gas, olefant, eoal, and oil, comparative experiments on their illuminating and heating powers, and on some general properties of radiant matters, -9.1 GOMPERTz, BENJAMIN, Esq. A sketch of lan analysis and notation applicable to the estimation of the value of life contingencies, 214 GRANVILLE, AUGUSTUS Bozzi, M. D. A case of the human foetus found in the ovarilm, of the size it usually acquires at the end of the fourth month, 101 GROOMBRIDGE, STEPHEN, Esq. Astronomical observationis, -330 H Hearing, human, its range, 313 HERSCHEL, J. F. W. Esq. On the action of crystallized bodies on hlomnogeneous light, and on the causes of the deviation from NEXVTON'S scale, in the tints which many of them develope on exposure to a polarised ray, 45 HOME, Sir EVI.RARD, Bart. Croonian Lecture. A farther investigation of the component parts of the blood, 1 Onl the milk tusks, and organ of hearing of the dugong, 14 On the mode of formation of the canal for containing the spinal marrow, and on the form of the fins (if they deserve that name) of the proteosaurus, 159 ---Observat.... Observations on the human urethra, showing its internal structure, as it appeared in the microscope of FRANCIS BAUER, Esq. 183 --A... An account of a new mode of performing, the high operation for the stone, 209 -----P Particulars respecting the anatomy of the dugong, intended as a supplement to Sir T.S RAFFLES' account, 315 K KNIGHT, THOMAS ANDREW, Esq. Upon, the different qualities of the alburnum of spring and winter-felled oaktrees, 5(5 IN D EX.. L Page LEGUAT, Mr. His account of the habits of the dugong 150 Life contingencies, a sketch of an analysis and notation applicable to the estimation of their value, 214 Light, homogeneous, on the action of crystallized bodies on it, I 45, Lizard tribe, the structure of their vertebrm, 160 Longitude, on the errors in longitude as. determined by chronometers at sea, arising from the action of the iron in the ships upon the chronometers, a 196 Lungs, on the elasticity of them, 29 ~'a experiments to ascertain the extent of the power to distend them to the dimensions which they occupy in the sound system, 35 Lyme, fossil organic remains discovered in the cliffs, at that place, -159 ;M Malabar, 74 guns, extract from the survey made by the officers of Plymouth Yard onthat ship, 142 Mesenteric glands, examination of their contents) in the case of a man who died in a fit an hour after having eateis his dinner, 7 Micrometers, on the method of cutting rock crystalfor them, 126 Moel Elio, its measurement by the thermometrical barometer, 32 N Narwhal, a section of themilk tusk of this animal compared with a similar section of that of the dugong, 147 Nitre, crystal oJ;t mo`de of examining its rings, by pro, jecting them on a large sheet of paper, stretched, while moist, on a drawing board, 80 P_ PERKINS, JACOB,. Esq. on the compressibility of water, 324 Planets, new, their oppositions 331 Platinum, on some combinationsof it, 10$ on a peculiar compound of it. obtained from sulphate of platinum by the agency of alcohol, 108 MDCCCXX. 7 Z INDEX. page Platinum, properties of this peculiar compound of pla-, ti num, 110 composition of this peculiar compound of platinum, l li observations on this peculiar compound of platinum, i o 115 Platinum, grey oxide of, observations on it, 191 _ properti e-s an d comn positionl of it, 191 Platinum sulphate of, its effects upon gelatine, 11$ ---ion the efficacy of this substance as a test for gelatine, 1 119 Polarised rings, description of an instrument employed in experiments upon them, 96 Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society, fromI November 18 19 to July 1890, 333 Proteosaurus, on the mode of formation of the canal for containing the spinal marrow, and on the form of the fins (if they deserve that name) of this anirnal, 159 the structure of its vertebrx, 160 R RAFFLES, SIiR THOMAS STAMFORD. Some account of the dugong, 174 RocHoN, M. Extract of a paper of his in the Journal de Physique, relative to the construction of micrometers, ]s0 Rock crystal, on the method of cutting it for micrometers, I96S SEPPEIGSG SIR ROBERT On a new principle of constructinog ships in the mercantile navy, 133 Sh/ips, on a niew method of constructing them in the miercantiIN navy, Snow, red, some experiments on the fungi which constitute the colourinlg matter in, that discovered in Baffin's Bay, 165 Snowdon. on the measurement of that mountain by the thermowmetrical b(aromieter, _ 995 Solstices, observations of those in the years 1818 and 1819, 330 observations of those in the years 1818 and 1819, , computed by Mr. GIOOMBRIDGE'S table of refraction, 330 Sounwsd, on those inaudible by certain ears, 306 Stone, an account of a new mode of performing the high operation for that disease, 909 INDEX. T page Tlundrer, now Talavera, report of the officers of his Ma. jesty's yard at WVool icb to the Navy Board, establishing the superior strenagth of the construction of this ship, 138 U Urethra, human, observations upon it, showing its "internal structure, as it appeared in the microscope of FRANCIS BAUIR, Esq. 183 Vertebr-e', the structure of those of the Proteosaurus, 160 the structure of those of the lizard tribe, 160 W Water, on the cotpressibility of it, 3 WOLLAS I ON, F. J, H., B. D). On the measurement of Snowdon, by the thermometrical barometer, 295 WOLLASTON, \WILLIAM'1 HYDE, M. D. On the methods of cutting rock crystal for micrometers, 126 On sounds inaudible by certain ears, S 306 From the Press of W. BULAMER & Co. Cleveland-row, St. Yames's, London. 