Two Astronomical Observations of the Eclipses of the Planet Jupiter, by the Moon in March and April last, made at London. The Lipsick Ephemerides of Mr. Godfrid Krick, giving notice of these Occultations, they were thought of too great consequence to be neglected, if the weather proved fair. The first hapned March 31th.at night,and was attended with a most Serene Sky, no Clouds any where appearing, wherefore Mr, Hook and E. Halley undertook the Observation in Gresham [86] Gresham Colledg, which succeeded as follows. Having taken some good Notes for the rectifying the Pendulum Clock, they expected the rising of the Moon, so much the rather, for that it was doubtful, whether the Planet would be eclopsed at the Rising or no, for tho' Kirk's Ephemerides made the Immersion at 9 h. 46 m. at Lipsick, that is at London 8 h. 54 m. yet his Jupiters place being 13 m. too slow, it was plain that the Occulation would be very near the Horizon of London. Accordingly at 9 h. 26 m. the under Limb of the Moon, was just risen over Shooters Hill, and soon after Jupiter appeared near the Eastern Limb of the Moon, within a few Minutes of being eclipsed. 9 h. 33 m. As near as could be guessed, was the Time of the central Immersion, which was very difficult to be observed, by reason of the Asperity of the Moons Limb, which undulated and sparcled very much, as it appeared through the Vapours near the Horizon, so that the contact of the Limbs could with no certainty be determined: the Ingress happened much about the length of the Spot, called by Hevelius palus Mareotis, to the North of the said Spot, or about the 124th. Degree of the outer Limb of his Selenography, nearly in the same Latitude with the Moons Center. 10 h. 30 m. The Western Edg of Jupiter began to emerg out of the dark Limb of the Moon. 10 h. 31 m. 20 s. The whole disk of Jupiter was entire, so that he was about a minute and a third in coming out from behind the Moon, whereby the Diameter of this Planet may be determined. The Emersion was exactly in a right Line with the Moons Center, and the Northern Part of Palus Maeotis, or about the 324th degree of the inner Limb of the Selenographick Table of Hevelius. The other Occulation hapned May the 28th. Mane, or Astronomically, the 27th after mid-night; the preceding Night was cloudy dark Weather; so that there was no encouragement to set up for it; however by good hap, both Im[87] Immersion and Emersion were observed. The Immersion was seen at Totteridge (which place is about 9 Miles from London, and nearly 25 seconds of time to the Westward thereof) by Mr. Edward Haines, a Member of the R. Society, well verst in this sort of Observation: who between a gap of the Clouds observed the Contact of the Moons limb and Jupiters, at 15 h. 31/2 min. the Clouds closing again permitted him to observe no more, however from this we may conclude the Central Immersion at London to have been 15 h. 41/2 min. The Emersion was observed at London by E. Halley, to fall out at 15 h. 49 min.; for at 15 h. 50 min. Jupiter was all out, and the limbs so little separated, that he judged, that a minute before, the center of Jupiter had been upon the Moons edg: The point of the Emersion was overagainst the Southern part of the spot, called by Hevelius Insula Macra, or at the 342d division of the inner limb of his Map of the Moon. What has been observed of these two Occultations elsewhere, would be very acceptable to the R. Society; such sort of Observations, if accurate, being of singular use to determine the Longitudes of Places, especially those that are far remote; for which purpose all Curious Persons furnished with Instruments and Skill in Astronomical matters, are desired to let slip none of these opportunities, which may be of so great benefit to Geography. M A 