(2083) Numb.65. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. Novemb. 14. 1670. The C O N T E N T S. An Extract of a Letter, intimating two New Anatomical Discoveries. A Narrative of divers odd Effects of a dreadful Thunder clap. An Extract of a Letter af M. Hevelius, concerning a New Star lately discover'd in the Constellation of the Swan; together with the present Appearance of the Planet Saturn. An Accompt from Paris in two Letters, concerning the Earlier discovery of the same New Star, described in the precedent Letter. Some Communications confirming the present Appearance of the Ring about Saturn, by M. Hugens de Zulichem, and M. Hook. An Extract out of a lately Printed Epistolary Address to the G. Duke of Toscany, touching some Anatomical Engagements of Laurentius Bellini. A relation of a late Monstrous Birth in Plymouth, together with the Anatomical Observations taken thereupon by Dr. Will. Durston. Some Observations on Insects lodging themselves in Old Willows; by Dr. Edmund King, and Francis Willoughby Esquire: A Confirmation of what was formerly Printed in Numb. 50. about the manner of Spiders projecting their Threds; communicated by Mr. Wray, and Mr. Lister. An Accompt of some Books. I. DE CORPORUM AFFECTIONIBUS cum MANIFESTIS tum OCCULTIS, Auth. J. B. Du Hamel. II. ELEMENTA PHYSICA, Auth. Franc. Wilh. Barone de Nuland. III. A Discourse of LOCAL MOTION, Englisht out of French. IV. Congietture Physico-Astronomiche dell a Natura del Universo, da M. Cavina; in Faenza, 1664. in 4~. V. Dimonstratione Delle 7. Propositioni, Promessa da Don. Rosetti; in Firenze 1668. in 4~. An Extract of a Letter, written to the Publisher out of France, Octob. 29. 1670. intimating two New Anatomical Discoveries. A Friend of mine, a professed Physitian, hath assured me, that at Montpelier, a German hath discover'd the vessels, D d which (2084) which convey the Chyle to the Breasts of Nursing Women; and thew'd, that they do issue out of the Ductus of Monsieur Pecquet. This is a discovery of a thing, the being of which hath been believed long since, though not made out. Another person hath assured me, that there is certainly another passage of the Urine to the Bladder than by the Ureters; an Experiment having been lately made, whereby the Ureters of a Dog were so carefully tyed up, that nothing could pass that way, and yet the Urinary Bladder was found full of Water. 