X. On the Economy of Bees. In a Letterfrom Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F. R. S. to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read May 14t, i807. MY DEAR SiR, IN the prosecution of those experiments on trees, -accounts of which you have so often done me the honour to present to the Royal Society, my residence has necessarily been almost. wholly confined to the same spot; and I have thence been induced to pay considerable attention to the economy of bees, 'amongst other objects; and as some interesting circumstances in the habit of these singular insects appear to have come under my observation, and to have escaped the notice of former writers, I take the liberty to communicate my observations to you. It is, I believe, generally supposed that each hive, or swarm, of these insects remains at 'all times wholly unconnected with other colonies in the vicinity; and that the bee never distinguishes a stranger from an enemy. The circumstances which I shall proceed to state will, however, tend to prove that these opinions are not wzei founded, and that a friendly intercourse not unfrequently takes place between different colonies, and is productive of very important consequences in their political economy. Mr. KNIGHT On, the Economy' of Bees. 9235 Passing through one of my orchards rather late in the eventing in the month of August, in the year, 1 8o, I observed that several bees passed me in a direct line from the hives in my own garden to those in the garden of a: cottager, which was about a hundred yards distant from it. As it was considerably later in the evening than the timewhen bees usually cease to labour, I concluded that something more than-ordinary was going forward. Going first to my own garden, anld then to that of the cottager, I found a very considerable degree of bustle and agitation to prevail -in one, hive in-,each:' every bee, as it arrived, seemed to be stopt and questioned, at the mouth, of each. hive; but I could not discover any thing like actual resistance, or hostility, 'to taake place,;. though I was much inclined to believe the intercourse between the hives to be hostile and predatory.. The same kind of intercourse conktinued, ink a greater or less degree, during eight succeeding days, and though I watched them very closely, nothing occurred to induceme to suppose that their intercourse was not of an amicable kind. I On the tenth morning, however their friendship. ended, as sudden and violent friendships often do, in a quarrel; and they fought most furiously; . and after this there was no. more visiting. Two years subsequentto this period I observed the same kind of intercourse. to take place between two hives of my own bees, which were situated about two hundred yards distant from each other: they passed from each hive to the other just as they did in the preceding instance, and -a similar degree of agitation was observable,. In-this instance, however, their friendship appeared to be of much shorter :duration, for they Mr. KNIGHT on tle Economy of Bees. fought most desperately on the fifth day; and then, as in the last mentioned case, allfurther visiting ceased. I have some reason to believe that the kind of intercourse I have described, which I have often seen, and which is by no means uncommon, not unfrequently ends in a junction of the two swarms; for one instance came under my observation, many years ago, in which the labouring bees, under circumstances -perfectly similar to those I have described, wholly disappeared, leaving the drones in peaceable possession of the hive, butwithout any thing to live upon. I have also reasons forbelieying, that whenever a junction of two swarms, with their property, is agreed upon, that which proposes to remove, immediately, or soon, afterwards, unites with the other swarm, and returns to the deserted hiveduring the day only to carry off the honey: for having examined at night a hive from which I suspected the bees to be migrating, -I found: it without ,a asingle inhabitant. I was led to make the -examination by information I had received from a very accurate observer, that all the bees would' then be absent. A very considerable quantity of honey was in this instance left in the hive without any guards todefend it; but I conclude that the -bees would have returned for it, had it remained till the next day. Whenever the bees quit their habitation, in this way, I have always observed some fighting to take place; but I conceived it to be between thebees of the adjoining hives, and those which were removing; the former being attracted by the scent of the honey, which the latter were carrying off. On the -farm which I occupy, there were formerly many old decayed trees, the cavities of which were frequently occupied Mr. KNIGHiT on the Economy of Bees. 237 by swarms of bees; and when these were destroyed, a board was generally fitted to the aperture whic-h had been made to extract the honev; and the cavity was thus prepared for-the reception of another swarm, in the succeeding season. Whenever a swarm came, I constantly observed, that about fourteen days previous to their arrival a small number of bees, varying from -twenty to fifty, were every day employed in examining, and apparently in keeping possession of the cavity; for if molested, they showed evident signs of displeasure, though they never employed their stings in defending their proposed habitation. Their examination was not confined to the cavity, but extended to the external parts of the tree above; and every dead knot particularly arrested their attention as if they had been apprehensive of being injured )y moisture which this might admit into the cavity below; and they apparently did not leave any part of the bark near the cavity unexamined. A part of the colony, which purposed toemigrate, appeared in this case to have been delegated to search for a, proper habitation ; and the individual who succeeded must have apparently had some meansof conveying information of his success to others; for it cannot be supposed that fifty bees should each accidentally meet at, and fix upon, the same cavity, at a mile distant from their hive; which I have frequently observed them to do, in a Wrood where several trees were adapted for their reception; and indeed I observed that they almost uniformly selected that cavity which I thought best adapted to their use. It not unfrequently happened that swarms of my own bees took possession of these cavities, and such swarms were in several instances followed from my garden to the trees : and they were observed to deviate very little from the direct line MDCCCVII. I i Mr. KNIGHT Orthe Economy of Bees. between the one point and the other; which seems to indicate that those beeswhich had formely acted as purveyors, now became guides. Two instances came under my own observation in whiph a swarm was received into a cavity, of which another swarm had previous possession. In the first instance I arrived with the swarm, and I could not discover that the least opposition was made to their entrance: in the second instance, observing the direction that the swarm took, I used all the expedition I could to arrive first at the tree, to which I supposed they were going, whilst a servant followed them; and a descent of ground being in my favour, and the wind; against them, I succeeded -in arriving at the tree some seconds before them; and I am perfectly confident that not the least resistance was opposed to their entrance. Now it does not appear probable that animals so much attached to their property as bees are, so jealous of all; approach towards it, and so ready to sacrifice their lives in defence of it, should suffer a colony of strangers, with whose intentions they were unacquainted, to take possession, without making some effort to defend it: nor does it seem much more probable that the same animals, which spent so much time in examining their future habitation, in the cases I have mentioned, should have attempted in this case to enter without knowing whether there was space sufficient to contain them, and without any examination at all. I must therefore infer, that some previous intercourse had taken place between the two sw arms, and that those in the possession of the cavities were not unacquainted with the intentions of their guests; though the forNation of any thing like an agreement between the different Mr.. KNIGHTVitiw the conomy oBees. 39 parties be scarcely consistent with the limitations generally supposed to be fixed by nature to the instinctive powers of the brute creation. Brutes have evidently language; but it is a language of passion only, and not of ideas. They express to each other sentiments of love, of fear, and of anger; but they appear to be wholly incapable of transmitting to each other any ideas they have received from the impression of external 6bjects. They convey to other animals of their species oin the ape proach of an enemy, a sentiment of danger; but they appear wholly incapable of communicating what the enemy is, or tne kind of danger apprehended. A language of more extensive use seems, froin the preceding circumstances, to have been given to bees ; and if it be not, in some degree, a language of ideas it appears to be something very similar. When a swarm of bees issue from the parent hiv e, thely generally soon settle on some neighbouring bush or tree; and as in this situation they are generally not at all defended from rain or cold, it is often inferred that they are less amply gifted with those instinctive powers, that direct to self-preservation, than many other animals. But their object in settling soon after they leave the hive is apparently nothing more than to collect their numbers; and they have generally, I believe always, another place to which they intend subsequently to go: and if the situation they select be not perfectly adapted to secure them from injuries, it is probably, in almost all instances, the best they can discover. For I have very often observed that when one of 'my hives was nearly ready to swarm, one of the holN low trees I have mentioned (and generally that best adapted for the accommodation of a swarm) was every day-occupied by I i 2 240 Mr. KNIGHT on the Economy of Bees. a small number of bees; but that -after the swarm had issued from that hive, and had taken possession of another, the tree was wholly deserted; whence I inferred that the swarm, which would have taken possession of the cavity of that-tree, had relinquished their intended migration, when a hive was offered them at home. And I am much disposed to doubt, whether 't be not rather habit, produced by domestication, during many successive generations, than any thing inherent in the nature of bees, which induces them to accept a hive, when offered them, in preference to the situation they have previously chosen: for I have noticed the disposition to migrate to exist in a much greater degree in some families of bees than in others; and the offspring of domesticated animals inherit, in a very remarkable manner, the acquired habits of their parents. In all animals this is observable; but in the dog it exists to a wonderful extent; and the offspring appears to inherit not only the passions and propensities, but even the resentments, of the family from which it springs. I ascertained by repeated experiment that a terrier, whose parents had been in the habit of fighting with polecats will instantly shew. every mark of anger when he first perceives the scent of that animal; though the animal itself be wholly concealed from his sight.A young spaniel brought up with the terriers shewed no marks whatever of emotion at the scent of the polecat; but it pursued a woodcock, the first time it saw one, with clamour and exulta. tion: and a young pointer, which I am certain had never seen a partridge, stood trembling with anxiety, its eyes fixed, and its muscles rigid, when conducted into the midst of a covey of those birds. Yet each of these dogs are mere varieties of the same species; and to that species none of these habits are Mr. KNIGHT On the EDonomy of Bees. 24g1 given by nature. The peculiarities of character can therefore be traced to no other source than the acquired habits of the parents, which are inherited by the spring, and become what I shall call instinctive hereditary propensities. These propensities, or modifications of the natural instinctive powers of animals, are capable of endless variation and change; and hence their habits soon become adapted to different countries and different states of domestication, the acquired habits of the parents being transferred hereditarily to the offspring. Bees, like other animals, are probably susceptible of these changes of habit, and thence, when accustomed through many generations to the hive, in a country which does not afford hollow trees, or other habitations adapted to their purpose, they may become more dependent on man, and rely on his care wholly for an habitation ; but in situations where the cavities of trees present to them the means of providing for themselves, I have found that they will discover such trees in the closest recesses of the woods, and at an extraordinary distance from their hives; and that they will keep possession of such cavities in the manner I have stated : and I am confident that, under such circumstances, a swarm never issues from the parent hive, without having previously selected some such place to retire to.It has been remarked by Mr. JOHN HUNTER, that the matter which bees carry on their thighs is the farina of plants with which they feed their young, and not the substance with which they make their combs; and his statement is, I believe, perfectly correct: but I have observed, that they will also carry other thingss on their thighs. I frequently covered the decorticated parts of trees, on which I was making experiments, with a cement composed of bees-wax and turpentine; 1242 Ikr. KNIG 1T on the Economy of Bees. and in the autumn Il have frequently observed.a great number of bees employed in carry ing offthis substance. Theydetached it from the tree with their forceps, and the little portion thus ob)taliled was then transferred by the first to the second leg, by wifch 'it was deposited on the thigh o0f the third: the farina of plants is collected and transferred in the same manner. This mixture of wax and turpentine did not, however, appear to have been employed in the formation of combs; but only to attach the hive to the board on which it was placed, and probably to exclude other-insects, and air during winter. Whilst the bees were employed in the collection of this subbstance, I had many opportunities of observing the peaceful and patient disposition of them as individuals, which Mr. HUNTER has also, in some measure, noticed. When one bee had collected its load, and was just prepared to take flight, another often came behind it, and despoiled it of all it had collected. A second, and even a third, load Was collected and lost in the same manner, and still the patient insect pursued its labour, without betraying any symptoms of impatience or resentment. When, however, the hive is approached, the bee appears often to be the most irritable of all animals; but a circumstance I have observed amongst another species of insects, whose habits are in many respects similar to those of bees, induces me to believe, that the readiness of the bees to attack those who approach their hives does not in any degree spring either from the sense of injury or apprehensions of the mdi-. vidu 1, who makes the attack. If a nest of wasps be approached w ithout alarming its inhabitants, and all communication be suddenly cut off between those out of tih nest, and those within it, no provocation will induce the former to defend their nest, Mr. KNIGHT on the Ecoomy ofBees. 243 or themselves. But if one escape from vithin, it comes waith a very different temper, and appears commissioned to avenge public wrongs, and prepared to sacrifce its life in the execution of its orders. I discovered the circumstance, that wasps thus excluded from their nest would neither defend it, nor themselves, at a very early period of my life; and I profited so often, by the discovery, as a school boy, that I am quite certain of the fact I state; and I do not entertain any doubt, though I speak from experiments less accurately made, that the actions of bees, tender si nilar circumstances, would be the same. * Mr. HUNTER conceived bees wax to be an animal substance, which exuded between the scales of the belly of the insect; but I anm strongly disposed to believe that it is collected froml plants, and merely desposited between the scales of the belLy * A curious circumstance relative to wasps, attracted the notice of some of my friends last year} and Ias not, I believe, been satisfactorily accounted for. A greater number of female wasps were observed in different parts of the kingdom, in the spring and early part of thea sum irer of that year, than at almost any former period ; yet scarcely any nests, or labouring wasps, were seen in the following autumn'; the cause of which I believe I can explain. Attending to some peach trees in my garden, late in the autumn of the year i8o5, on which I had been making experiments, I noticed, during many successive days, a vast number of female wasps, which appeared to hama been attracted there by the shelter and wa mth of a south wall; but I did not observe any males. At length, during a warm gleam in the middle of one of the days, a single male appeared, andl selected a female close to me; and this was the only male I saw in thatseason. The male wasp, which is readily distinguishable from the female anaI labourer, by his long antennaz and shining wings, and by a blacker and more slknder body, is rarely seen out of the nest, except in very warn days, like the drone bee; and the nests of wasps, though vpry abundant in the year i8oS, were not frmed till remarkably late in the season; and thence I conclude tI at the malts had not acquired., maturity till the weather had ceased to be warm, and that the fimales, in consequence,. retired to their long winter sleep without having had any intercoursv wth them 244 Mr. KNIGHT on the Economy of Bees. of the bee, for the joint purposes of being carried with convenience, and giving the the temperature necessary for being moulded into combs: and I am led to this conclusion, not onfly by the circumstance of wax being found in the. vegetable world, but also by having often observed bees employed in detaching something from the bases of the leaves of plants with their forceps, which they did not deposit on their thighs, as they do (I believe invariably) the farina of plants. I have also frequently observed the combs of very late swarms to be remarkably thin and white, and brittle; which are circumstances very favourable to the conclusion that the wax is a vegetable substance, for it would probably be less abundant during autumn than in summer; and that portion which had remained on the plants till late in the season would hence become more colourless by exposure to light, as well as more dry and brittle, than when at first exuded; but were it an animal substance, there does not appear any reason why it should be more dry and brittle, or less abundant, in the autumn, than in the spring and summer. The conclusions of Mr. HUNTER are, however, always drawn with so much caution, and he united so much skill and science with the greatest degree of industry, that it is not without much hesitation and diffidence, that I venture to put my opinion in opposition to his authority. T. A. KNIGHT. Elton, Mlay 4, 1807q 