A Relation of an Inland-Sea, near Danzick, yeilding at a certain season of the year a green substance, which causeth certain death; together with an Observation about white Amber: Communicated by Mr. Kirkby, in a Letter written to the Publisher from Danzick Decemb. 19.1671. NEar a small village, call'd Tuckum, 2 1/2 German miles distant from this Citty west-ward, there is an Inland-Sea (made by the meeting of three rivolets, some springs from the adjoyning hillocks, and the descending rain and snow-water,) of about half a German mile long and an eight part of such a mile broad. It stretches NNW and S SW. About the midle of the bow on the East-side it dischargeth it self with a pretty stream; as it also doth in another place more Southerly. The soil of the ground round about seems to be sand mixt with clay. Its shore generally sandy, as is its bottom also. Its depth, where deepest, four fathoms; but for the most part but one, or one fathom and an half. 'Tis stored with wholesome and delicate Fish, as Pearch, Roch, Eles, &c. and famed for a small fish, much esteem'd here, and not much unlike a Pearch; only not so party coloured (4070) red, and having a larger head proportionable to its body, call'd the Cole-pearch. The water svveet and vvholesome; but only in the three Summer months, June, July, and August, it becoms every year, during the dry weather, green in the midle vvith an hairy efflorescence; vvhich green substance, being by some vio lent vvind forced a shore, and vvith the vvater drunk by any Cattel, Dog, or Poultry, causeth certain and sudden death; whereas at the same time, that a knovving and ingenuous person (vvho first acquainted me vvith it,) savv three dogs killed vvith it, the Horses that vvere ridden into the vvater beyond the place, vvhere this green substance floated, drunk vvithout any hurt; and that also, during the same season, the vvater in the streams, that flovv from it, are vvholesome. I shall endeavour, if you desire it, to procure some of that stuff, and get it examin'd by a chymical analysis. One thing more I must add, that the chief Fisher here inform'd me, that tvvo or three years ago fishing in this Sea, his net brought up a considerable large piece of vvhite Amber, vvhich as a rarity he presented to one of the chief Fathers of the Olive's Abby, to vvhich this Sea belongs. Novv since this Sea is not to be suspected to come from the Ocean, it lying so high, and about three German Miles distant from the Ocean; and since also the neighbouring woods that bear none, but highly resinous trees, cannot be reasonably said to furnish such Amber, that conjecture, which imports that Amber is a bituminous fluid substance, hardned by the operations of the aqu-aerial particles upon it, may receive some confirmation from this account. An 