[922] Some Observations on Boyling Fountains, and Subterraneous Steams: by Dr. Tancred Robinson, Fellow of the R. S. WAlking out one day from Montpelier in company of my ingenious, and worthy freinds Dr. Sloan, and Dr. Wakely, in order to visit the famous boyling fountain near Peroul, a small Village lying east about a league from thence, not far from the Etang, I found the water to heave, and boyle up very furiously in small bubbles; as the learned Mr. Ray relates in his travells p.459, and it was very manifest, that this Phaenomenon proceeded from a Vapour breaking out of the Earth, and rushing through the water, so as to toss it up with noise, and in many bubbles; for upon digging any where near the ~, and pouring other water upon the dry place newly dug, I observ'd in it immediatly the same boyling; which the afore mentioned exquisite naturalist does likewise remark in his travells. The like bubbling of water is also found round about Peroul, upon the Sea shore;and in the Etang it self: in order to search out more narrowly the cause of this odd Phaenomenon, I took some of the sand and Earth out of the fountain, and ditch, putting it into Vessels, and pouring the same water upon it, but there did not appear the least perturbation, or alteration thereupon; the superficies of the water continuing very smooth, equal, and quiet: yet still, for further satisfaction, I sought out, and discover'd in severall dry places of the ground thereabouts, many little Ventiducts, passages, or clefts, where the steam issued forth; at the mouths of these channells or pipes, placing some light bodys, as feathers, small thin pieces of straws, leaves, &c. I found them soon remov'd away; this vapour [923] pour upon the application of a lighted candle, or torch did not flame, or catch the least fire; as the fumes running through a boyling spring near Wigan in Lancashire do; for Mr. Sherley made them burn, and flame very vigorously at the contact of a lighted candle; Philosoph. Transact. N. 26, p. 483. so that here we have two different sorts of steams causing these boylings, yet neither of the fountains are Medicinal, or so much was arm; the like is related by Varenius, [primo lapide a Culma (says he,) fons magno spiritu emittit aquam quasi ferventem, cum tamen sit frigidissima, unde vocant Insanam.] The learned Dr. Plott, in his late book De Origine Fontium, mentions some fountains in England, [qui cum sonitu erumpunt, impetu ferri & fragore ruunt.] Many hissing springs bubbling at the top, I have found in Swizzerland (the best water'd Country that'ever I saw,) and in many places near the Rhine; but I had not opportunities to experiment and Philosophize, upon them. There are other boyling waters of a quite contrary temper, being actually hot to severall degrees, so as to boyl eggs, and many other things put into them; as those near the Solsatar a not far from Naples, before you descend by the little Capuchin-Cloyster to Puzzuolo, antiently call'd Puteoli; as also upon the top of Mount Zebio in the Duke of Modena's Territories, not far from his villa near Sassolo; and in the source of the Emperour's Bath at Aken, in the Country of Juliers. Varenius tell us, [quodin Japonia fons adeo fervidus, & ~, prorumpit, ut ignis vehementissimi licet fervore nulla aqua ad eum gradum caloris perduci possit, triplo enim diutius retinere fervorem quam nostra aqua calefacta, consueverit; non fluit continue, sed bis de die per unam horam,& tunc tempor is tanto spirituum impetu, & vehementia fertur, ut incumbentia puteo ingentia saxa commoveat, & ad trium vel quatuor ulnarum altitudinem tanto fragore, ut explosionem magni tormenti bellici reserat. ~ 3 ~ [924] From the a foregoing History, we may take occasion to reflect a little upon the manifold Variety of exhalations prepared in, and flying out from the vast Magazines, and severall reconditories below, as to their qualities and effects; some being cold, and dry, resembling air, or wind, as those near Peroul, and in the Caverns of Mountains, especially those of AEolus, and other hills of Italy; as also in mines upon the meeting of water; others are inflammable, and of a bituminous nature, though not actually warm, as those near Wigan in Lancashire; and those as I conjecture, (for I never saw them,) at the much talk't of burning fountain in Dauphine: there are also many steams very hot, Sulphureous, and saline; more especially those in the naturall stoves, sweating vaults, grotts, baths, and the Vulcano's near Naples, Bajae, Cuma, and Puzzuolo, as also in some of the subterraneous works at Rome; others there are of an Arsenical, and such like venenose qualities, as in the Grotta del Cane on the Bank of the lago Agnano; in many mines; in poysonous springs; and lakes; now these various steams meeting with, and running through waters, must cause a great variety of Phaenomena, and effects in them. Whether this great diversity proceeds from the Various breaths of the Pyrites, and the lapis Calcarius, whilst under their different states, and changes, or from other sorts of effluviums, (the store of nature being vast, and very copious) I dare not determine; however I am convinced that Sulphur is sublimed from the Pyrites, according to the opinion of that most excellent Naturalist, and Universally learned Physitian Dr. Martin Lister; especially that gather'd upon Mount AEtna, Vesuvius, the Solfatara, (antiently call'd Campo Phlegraei, Leucogei, and forum Vulcani,) and in the stoves of S. Gennaro, not far from thence; for most of the stones and Cinders, thrown out of those mighty furnaces do manifestly contain Iron, if we may believe the Magnet: as to the salt (taken by many writers [925] writers to be a sort of Sal Armoniac,) found togetherwith theSulphur in the forementioned places,it appear'd to me to be a kind of Nitrum Calcarium for,as I remember,it had not any Urinous qualities, that I could perceive by slight tryalls of mixture; and I was the more confirm'd in my opinion after I had seen, and consider'd, the great quantity of Lime Stone round about Naples; many beds of it lying up and down the Terra di Lavoro, or Campania felice; so that Dr. Lister's notions concerning the Pyrites and the lapis Calcarius, may reach further, and prove in time more fruitfull, then the Epicureans, or Corpuscularians, may be willing to admit; for other mineralls and metals (at least as many as I know of them,) are not so plentifull as those are, neither are these, or any other bodys whatsoever under ground so sensibly busy, and active in their fermentations, breathings, emanations, and changes, as the Pyrites, and the lapis Calcarius,are known to be: what there is under our shell, in the deep, and dark regions of the Globe, where humane industry never yet penetrated, I cannot conceive, however I dare not deny, but that all bodys as well above, as under us, may send forth their secret effluviums, and have their peculiar Atmospheres; there being scarce any absolute rest in bodys, as our great and famous Philosopher, Mr. Boyle does evince in severall tracts. An Ac