(246) I. An Observation of Two Boys bit by a Mad Dog, Communicated by Dr. Martin Lister, Fellow of the Coll. of Phys. and R. S. ABout the last of October, 1679. it happened that Two Boys of Ten and Nine Years Old, of a Sanguin and Cholerick Complexion, did touch and handle the Head of a Dog which had been wounded by a Mad Dog, which by the handling and washing of his Wound by the Children, the Dog so wounded was healed, and did not become Mad. But about May, 1680. the Children became so unwell, and were seized with a paining Grief towards the bottom of their Bellies, which did grind and torment them with Pain and Trouble, which ascended gradually upwards towards their Navil. And about the First of July, together with the foresaid Grief, they were taken with a slow Flux, and with Fainting Fits by times, when the fore-said Pains assaulted them. After they had continued thus for a time, their Pain and Grief ascended towards and above the Stomach, whereupon followed very violent and Convulsive-like Motions in their Bodies, especially about the Stomach and Belly, by which they were tossed and tumbled and disturbed in the whole Body, with some foaming at the Mouth, in the interim of their Fits; now and then these Symptoms continued and increased until the latter end of August that they were taken with the Fear of Water, and could not indure to look into any Liquid (247) Liquid thing, until the Cup was covered, but forthwith would have fallen down as dead, and so would have layn a little time as in a sounding or dead Fit; and then would have tumbled and tossed in the fore-said violent Motions and Distractions of their Bodies, moaning and groaning; and ordinarily, the Eldest especially, snarled, barked, and endeavoured to bite like a Dog, they continued in this Fit for an Hour sometimes, and sometimes less, and so came out of the Convulsive-like Motions, lying as it had been in a Sound, a little before they came out of the Fits, and when they did come out of the Fits, would have cropen away in a feared manner from any who had been by them: and thus within an Hour, or little more, they came so out of their Fits, that they were also well and as much themselves as ever. Observe that they both took the Fits and came out of them at the same time; as soon as the Eldest sell in, immediately the Youngest took the Fit, and when the Eldest began to come out of the Paroxism or Fit, the Youngest became forthwith well. And thus they remained under the said Symptomes until the middle of September, every Day taking the said Fits, in which they could not speak, and in their Intermissions were as towardly and in their Wits as ever. But about the middle of September, about which time, especially their Barking and snarling like a Dog came, they became more wild; so as for some Days now and then, even whilst out of their torturing Fits, they would not endure any Company, no not so much as to come near one the other, but would have fled from all others, so from one another, and thus continued of this Disposition for a Week; and then the Eldest drew near his Father, saying as one surpriz'd, Father, I am well; and so he (248) he and the other became forthwith well, that they would not only converse with Friends and others, but also look into the Water without any fear; and as well in their Wits and Memories as ever, and so continued to be well for Three or Four Days, and after that fell ill again, and remained ill Six or Seven Days, at the end whereof they became well, in saying as formerly on a suddain to their Father, Father, I am well; and thus became well about the end of September, and continued both well as ever they were, to the Apprehension of all On-lookers, until the end of January, that the Eldest had some Fits like the former; but the Youngest remained well ever since September. Observe, that sometimes in August, when the Symptomes did so appear as the Learned took up the Distemper to flow from the Poison of a Mad Dog, there were Doses of Antimony and Mercurius Vitae prescribed which accordingly was administred, together with Antidotes of Venice Treacle, Powder of Crabs Eyes, and other things. II. A 