(765) Numb.39. PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS. Monday, Sept. 21. 1668. The Contents. An Addition to the formerly publisht Narrative, about Empty Tubes serving for a decay'd sight. An Extract of a Letter written from Dantzick, containing the success of some Experiments of Infusing Medicins into Humane Veines. Additional Answers to the Queries of Mines. Extracts of two Letters; whereof the one written from Franckford on the Oder concerning Osteocolla, and some other Observables in those parts: the other written by an Ingenious Person in England, about some Effects of Antimony. A second Letter of Dr. John Wallis on the same Printed Paper of Fr. Du Laurens, which was mentioned in the next foregoing Transactions. An Account of some Books. 1. OLAI BORRICHII, Med. Regii, & in Acad Hafniensi Prof. De ORTU & PROGRESSU CHEMIAE, Dissertatio. II. An IDEA of the Perfection of PAINTING: originally written in French; and now rendred English by J. Evelyn Esq; III. STEREOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS, variously applicable, but particularly intended for GAGING, by ROB. ANDERSON. IV. ELAPHOGRAPHIA sive CERVI Descriptio Physico-Medico-Chymica, Auth. JOH. ANDREA GRABA, Med. Doct. Erfurtensi. V. A DISCOURSE of SPEECH, Originally written in French, now rendred English. A Note Relating to the formerly publisht Narrative about Empty Tubes, serving for a decay'd sight; imparted by the same Author in a Letter of August 10. 1668. SIr, I pray you, give notice, That I have now tried Convexe Spectacles, which about 3 years agoe (before my sight fell into this decay) agreed very well for my use; and putting these Q q q q Glasses (766) Glasses into the Tapers, I found the smallest Prints somewhat larger, but not so clear, so distinct, nor so pleasing to the Eye, as when I use the Empty Tapers. Also I am so confirm'd, that these empty tapers do preserve, strengthen, and in some small degree recover the sight. *And I find my self best at ease with those Leathern Tubes, I first used; and rather without any fastning to the bone of the Spectacles: For, as they hang in that slight manner, I can with a touch of my finger raise them up, or bow them down, divide them, or unite to take in the same object, which is more than I said at first. And I put them off and on as speedily and as easily as any other Spectacles. * This may give occasion to consider, Whether to a sight much decay'd, a hindrance of the Refractions may be a Remedy? And whether that hindrance of Refractions, which belpes some Eyes, belpes not others? 