The Extract of a Letter written by Mr. John Ray to the Publisher from Midleton, July 3. 1671. concerning Spontaneous Generation; As also some Insects smelling of Musk.~ Sir, AS to the particulars contain'd in your Letter, I well remember, that Mr. Lister did, a good while since, write me his opinion concerning Vegetable Excrescencies, and the Insects therein bred and harboured; but the Letter containing that Discourse I have not at present by me, it being sent away in a bund'e of other Letters and papers into Essex. I have therefore written to him to desire him,to take the pains himself to send you his thoughts upon that subject. * * The Reader is ~ to find this Accompt in the Transactions of the next Month. Whether there be any Spontaneous or Anomalous Generation of Animals, as hath been the constant opinion of Naturalists heretofore, I think there is good reason to question. It seems to me at present most probable, that there (2220) there is no such thing; but that even all Insects are the natural issue of parents of the same species with themselves. F. Redi hath gone a good way in proving this, having cleared the point concerning generation ex materia putrida.* But still there remain two great difficulties. The first is,to give an accompt of the production of Insects bred in the By fruits and Excrescencies of Vegetables,which the said Redi doubts not to ascribe to the Vegetative Soul of the Plant that yields those Excrescencies. But for this I refer you to Mr. Lister. The second, to render an accompt of Insects bred in the Bodies of other animals. I hope shortly to be able to give you an accompt of the Generation of some of those Insects, which have been thought to be spontaneous, and vvhich seem as unlikely as any to be after the Ordinary and Usual vvay. * Of this Author an Accompt was given in Numb. 66.p.2436. Of such an Insect, as you mention, feeding upon Ranunculus, vvhich vvhen dried yields a Musky scent, I have no knowledge. I can at present call to mind but two sorts of Insects that I have seen,which smel of Musk. The one is like the common Capricornus or Goat-chafer, which is mention'd by all Naturalists that vvrite of Insects, and vvhich smels so strong of that perfume,that you may scent it at a good distance as it flies by, or fits near you. The other is a small sort of Bee, vvhich in the South and Eastparts of England is frequently to be met withal in Gardens among flowers in Spring-time. I remember, they vvere very plentiful in Sir Edw. Duke's Tulip-Garden, vvhen the Tulips flowred. Sir Edward is now dead; his house was not far from Saxmundham in Suffolk; the name of the Parish I have forgot. I have by me the Description and Anatomy of a Porpess (vvhich fish I happily met vvithal at West Chester) in vvhich there are some particulars, that I find not in the Descriptions of Rondeletius or others, which, if you please, I shall send you *. I rest, &c. * When this shall come to hand, we intend to communicate it to the Curious, the ingenious Author permitting it. An 