[825] Specimen UNIVERSAE REI NUMMARIAE ANTIQUAE, Or an Essay towards an universal History of ancient Coynes and Medails, by Andreas Morellius. Paris in Octavo 1683. THis ingenious and diligent Helvetian, as a fair instance what humane industry may effect, if fixt and resolv'd, hath already delineated above twenty thousand different and ancient Coynes, which is a very considerable part of the sorts reserved in the Cabinets of the Princes of Europe, and alsoe an admirable advantage to the Philologist. This Specimen divides into fourteen Tables, as into so many curiosities, and is prefac't with the just commendation of the Design, and with a short account of the more famous Collectors of such Antiquity. Amongst these, since the restoring of Good learning to Europe, none deserves more honour then Hubertus Goltzius; who, besides the Coynes of Augustus and others already published, had drawne off most of the Imperiall, vet preserv'd in the hands of the worthy Councellour Chiflete. Occo indeed, and since him the very illustrious Count de Biragues, have given the world the writing and Motto's of severall thousands of old Coynes, yet without their figures, devises, and moduls. Here alsoe the candid Morellius largely acknowledges the favours and supply of Doctor Charles Patin, the best deserving in that precious Art of all men now living; and after a due admiration of the vast store of ancient money and medails in the closets of the most Christian King, and in severall noble cabinets at Paris, he distributes the whole stock into these parts or Tomes. 1. The Coynes of Cities and Kings, before the times of the Caesars, or at least without reference to them. 2. The Consular Coynes. 3. Those of the Roman Emperours. 4. The Coynes of the Hebrews, Phaenicians, Moors, Parthians, G 2 Arabes, [826] Arabes, Spaniards, Gothes, and others, which either want inseriptions, or are not easy to be interpreted. Now the series of Coynes of the Roman Emperours, partly Greek and partly Latine, descends from Julius Caesar to Heraclius: for after that valiant, though unfortunate Prince, Barbarity invaded the Mint as well as the Empire. Of these, the Latine are placed, as much as possible, according to order of time. Because after Gallienus, it is very difficult to adjust the money to the years, although Occo hath attempted it. But as to the Greek Inscriptions of the same Emperors, which are indeed the greater number, it is most convenient to place them according to the Alphabete of the Cityes that coyn'd them; not neglecting the Chronological descent, where it is certain. Yet if the order observ'd for his private use may better please the skill'd, he is ready to follow it in the general work. It is this. 1. The Coynes of the greatest size. 2. The Greek after the Alphabet of the several Cities. 3. The Greek bearing the annual Date. 4. Inscriptions Military, Historical and Provincial. 5. Titles. 6. Deities. 7. Virtues, Attributes, and Acts. 8. Tribuneships and Consulates. The Metal, Module, Rarity, and Cabinet, is noted upon each Coyne: and every Copper Plate contains ~ such Coynes: the Geography, Chronology, and Explanation requisite to this large Atcheivement being added to each Plate. Thus the Preface. The first Table represents three medails of the greater size. Whereof the first is the Type of the Community of the XIII Cities of Rhodes in honour of the Emperor T. AElius Hadrianus Antoninus Pius, while Claudius Fronto was Prytanis or Major of Rhodes, Asronha and Pontife: bearing in Reverse the Flambeaux of Ceres drawn by a pair of Dragons, sutable to Ophiusa the more ancient name of that Island. The next large Coyne shews the laureate Crown of Marcus Antoninus, and on the [827] the contrary part the Musical Orpheus with his charm'd Brutes. The third opposes to the head of M. Commodus Antoninus, as the consequent and merit of his victories, the harp of Apollo Palatinus. The second Table likewise gives three large medails: the first suppos'd of Caracalla or Elagabalus amongst the baser Antonines, though perhaps somewhat ~, with this special Reverse, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~; where also the Emperor stands in devotion before Diana Polymanna of the Ephesians. The second shews us Probus arm'd Capapee, and on the other side Adlocutio Augusti, four Barbarian Princes kneeling below his suggestum. In the last of this Table we have the curl'd head of the Platonic Philosopher Apuleius, in a Medail turn'd like our Mill'd-money: on the backside is a Souldier entring a porch adorned with three human heads, I believe the Temple of Mercurius Trismegistus. Such Philosophical Medails are by the studious referr'd to the time of Honorius, not higher. The third Table affords a golden Coyne of Gallicnus with the vain Reverse Deo Augusto: with a type Divo Trajano Patri, Father of the Emperor of the same name, and well known in the Jewish wars. An history of the Trajans we may expect from the admirable Foy-Vaillant, who lately published the series of the Syro-Graecian Kings from their Coynes. Next the Community of Asia, under Cleo Praetor of Sardes, represents the adopted brothers Drusus and Germanicus, one with the Armes of an Augur, the other with those of a Pontife. The next Table shews us the height of the Gentile madness in the Title Deo Augusto round the laureate head of Octavius. So in Divus Pater Trajanus, a person well known in the Jewish war. The following Coyne bears the two adopted brothers Drusus and Germanicus with the Instruments of Augur and Pontise, and on the Reverse [828] verse the Dedication by the Sardians under Cleo their Priest and in the name of the Asian Community. Then two rare and elegant stamps, one of Marciana Trajans sister, reversed with Maltedia blessing her two Daughters and not well represented by Tristan, otherwise the ornament of this Learning: the other of Titiana wife to Pertinax, having on the farther side Victory with L. A. or the first year of that Emperor, who reign'd but four Months. The fourth Table begins with a Coyne of the 2 Philips, father and son, and on the averse part Otacilia severa, suppos'd a Christian Lady. And after represents Trajanus Decius with Herennia Etruscilla, non Saint Orbiana, Empress and their sons, Etruscus and Hostilian. The faces of the next Medail are Aur. Commodus Antoninus, and the parent of Greek Literature OMHPO~ NIKAI~N, seated on his Parnassus, and thus honored by the Bithynians. The like is done under the same Emperor by the Samians for their excellent Pythagoras, pointing in the Coyne to the Celestial Globe mounted on a Column. Then we have Hero and Leander of the Abydenes from the Cabinet of Cardinal Maximus; and lastly from the Treasure of the French King, the Edessene Governour Abgarus ~ ~ in some Medails, standing and offering the image of Victory, and thereby the Parthian submission, to one of the Gordians sitting on his Emperial Throne. For the Roman Empire consisted of free Cities, Provinces, and dependent Kingdomes. The next Table commences with Trajane, in the L. IE. or fifteenth year of his Empire saluted by Alexandria bearing (usually) her Elephantine head-peice, and two eares of Corne, noting the Frumentum Alexandrinum. Next you have from the Palace of the present Emperor Leopold three horsmen with Adventus Augustorum, relating to the third Consulship of Severus at [829] at the end of the Parthian war. Then followes a most specious Coyne of Faustina, wife of the Pious Antonine, consecrated and drawn ex Senatusconsulto by a couple of Elephants. Against the head of Antoninus Caracalla Tr. P. VII. is exprest from a Coyne of the most Christian King, the Triumphal Arche of Severus and Caracalla, so industriously describ'd from the original structure by Benitinus and Bartolus. Passing by Galliena's Vow Jovi Victori, and Probus his reverse Origini Aug. with the Wolfe and first pair of Romans: an Eagle rounded with ~ shews the consecration of ~ ~ ~, in a Coyne of Mr. Warner of Berne. This Table ends with the Felix Processus Consulatus VI. of the great Constantine, a rare monument in the hands of the Sieur de Monieux. The sixt plate begins with Trajane ~ TH~ ~, meaning the monument of his Dacic Victory, the Nicopolis with her towring head on the Averse. And is succeeded of Julia Pia Augusta, or Julia Domna, mother of the Emperors, mother of the Senate and of the Country. I omit the arrogant or undeserv'd titles of Valerian and Gallien, as Restitutor generis humani & conservator pietatis: as also Vespasian's Adsertor libertatis publicae, within an Oken-wreath: to hasten to the Golden medail of the most noble Constantine inscrib'd Salus & Spes Reipublicae, stampt at Heraclea, and weighing six ordinary Aurei of the same Emperour. This we owe to the Caesarean Treasurie at Vienna. In the seventh we have Nero's Jupiter Olympius, Nero's Jupiter Liberator C. P. i. e. Coloniae Patrensis, Trajans ~ ~ stampt at Pergamus, and Domitians Reverse with the Eagle and thunder ~ ~. Then against the head of Titus Vespasianus, that of the Alexandrian Serapis cum modiolo, dated L. P. or the third year of Titus. Of the Deity, so propitious to Vespasian, Morellius will give the public in his Great work fourescore different Ectypes, [830] Ectypes. Considerable are the Apollo Sanctus of Pescenninus Niger, and the ~ ~ of the Nicaeans, near of kin to ~sculapius, in a Philosophical habit, behind the head of Anroninus Pius, and lastly the Bonus Genius of Galerius Maximinus, stampt at Alexandria with the ensign's of plenty and a moon crescent. The eighth Table exposes the Ercules, or Hercules Victor of ~milian, Nero's Hercules Augustus from his Colonia Patrensis, the two Postumi their Libyan Hercules with Antaeus,and Erymantian with the bore: then against the head of Aurelius Verus,the serpent Glyco,the devise of the false Prophet Alexander, magnify'd by the Paphlagonians, especially at Jonopolis, that is Abonopolis, and sufficiently derided by Lucian the Sophiste. Besides these, the ~ ~ with a female towring head, the figure of Moneta with her scales and cornucopia, circumscrib'd with Metalli Ulpiani Pannonici, which mines are yet valuable to the Roman Emperour. And, to conclude, the Victoria Carpica, not Cardica of Philip. The ~. plate containes Nero's Diana Laphria or venatrix with her bowe, Diana Leucophry's Polymanna of the Magnesians in honour of Hadrian,a very beautiful figure of ~ ~ with Neros head on the front, the Nemesis of Tianum with a wheele at her feet, an excellent Ectype of the Temple of Venus Paphia amongst the Sardians, and on the back of Salonina an inscription and statue Beneri genetrici, as in ancient Coynes occurs. Jubentus Bolcanus, Renobatus, Bixit, &c. This deity Julius Caesar honour'd with a Breastplate made with Brittish Pearls. Then Hispania with a rabbet at her feet (Saphan in Hebrew: whence the Learned Bochart derives the name of the Country) stampt in the second Consulate ~ Antoninus Pius, and at last in honour of Maximian, Gaudete Romani. Sic xx. fic xxx. upon the ~ of the Prince. The tenth Table first honours Augustus Caesar with ~ KTICTHS of the Nicopolitans, ~ hose cnsigne [831] ensigne was the head of the Calcydonian bore; and also with a stampe at Mylasa ~ ~, referring to the storys of Labienus reported by Strabo lib. XIV Then we have two Coynes of Gallienus embellsh'd with the dignity of Sidae metropolis of Pamphylia: and against the head of Aur. Antoninus Sagalassus of the Lacedaemonians, Plenty crowning that Emperor:and on the reverse of Gordian, Seleucia ad Calycadnum libera, a fair Greek Coyn amongst the many of the French King. The XI. Table begins with a Greek Coyn of Antoninus Pius II. ~. reversed with the image of Tarsus metropolis of Cilicia, holding ears of corne in her right hand, and treading upon the riverCydnus. The next expresses Commodus's Laodicea,the rivers Lycus and Caprus running beneath: then Severus his Diana of the Ephesians, beset with the waters of Cayster and Cenchrius, amongst the rarityes of the famous Patin: and averse from Julia Domna, the river Rhodius of the Dardanii; and also in another Coyn of the same Lady, Sagaris of the Nicaeans, and opposite to Geta, Scamander of the Ilienses. And concludes with a Coyn of Hadrian, whose reverse shews Marsyas Cibotus Apamensium: near which part of Phrygia some will have Noahs Arke to rest, as the learned Falconerius in his discours de Nummo Apamensi. In the XII. Table, behind a cut of Trajan is ~ ~ ~~. L. K. or in the 20. year of his Empire. Then a copper Coyn of Otho with ~, bearing a cap on her head and a garland in her hand. A medail of Antoninus Pius with the AEgyptian ~, holding corne in her apron, and leaning upon a Sphinx, stampt L. B. Next Hadrian s ~ Spes cos. III. upon the adoption of AElius Caesar. And also Commodi magnisicentia; and yet higher, The world is happy in Commodus, say the Nicaeans, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. To this, an excellent Coyn of Caracalla, reversd with the four boyes for the seasons of the year, ~ ~, bearing the flowerbasket of the spring, the sickle of summer, the grapes and ~ of autumne,and the closegarment of winter. And in the 3d. Consulate of Hadrian, a golden Coyn with Jupiter in a circle,bearing a bird or Phaenix on a globe, and underneath ~. The XIII and XIV Tables contein several ancient Games, as the Asclepia, Soteria, Isthmia and Pyihia of Caracalla at Ancyra. Then Commodiana of the N caeans: and Severiana of the Perinthians and the Philadelphia of the same. Next Severiana and H Philadel[832] Philadelphia of the Nicaeans: the ~ and Pythia under Julius ~ in the reigne of Caracalla and in the time of Gordian the ~ of Thessalonica: most of these represented with their urnes and palin's. The Theogomia ~ of Valerian, in the ~ of Mr Nedham an English Gentleman. The Agon ~ ~ at Tarsus, Hadrians ~ Pincensia: and that memorable Coyn in the third Consulate, and XII. Tribunship of Severus, where Bacchus and Herc ues stand circumscrib'd with Ludos saeculares fecit, to witt anno Romae 950. Christi 205. Chilone & Libone coss.: 15. years after Domitian's Seculars, as Censorinus rightly: not c x as Zosimus reckons. The 15. Table affords Cyzicus King of Propontis: Rex Juba Junior, and his wife Cleopatra, Daughter of Antonies Cleopatra:and a rare head of a Parthian King with the gloriousTitles of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. And lastly a Coyn of Joseph fil. Job Salahodin, the scourge of Christianity, and occasion of the Decimae Saladinae decreed in the Council at Paris 1188. This and 60. other Arabic medails are preserv'd in the Library of St Genovese at Paris. The 16. Table commences with a rare Greek Coyn from the Euxine ~ ~, and on the back a bunch of grapes ~~.And followed with the horned head of ~ ~,named from Ham Noahs son, the stampe of the Mytilenians under the Praetor Valerius Aristomachus: this with the figure of the ~ ~ or the Senate, viz a Senators head wreath'd, like to the description of the same in Dio. And at last a choice Coyne of ~ ~, encloseing in a garland their feasts and playes in honour of Latona, ~ ~, meaning the Meandrian Tripolis As for Hebrew Coynes he finds very few genuine in the Princes cabinets; but many Punic and Parthic. Of French Coynes the illustrious Harley hatli the best store: and Ant Augustinus will serve well for the Spanish. Then he shuts up his Specimen with 4. Coynes, viz: Ossa Rex Mecricrum, Voicae ~, Obulco Hispanorum, and a Punic Coyne with a sow and pigs, and with characters like the Samaritan Besides, two learned letters of his Excellence Ezechiel Spanheme honour this Specimen. [833] An account of the reprinting of Johannes Goedartius D E INSECTIS; cum Appendice ad HISTORIAM ANIMALIUM ANGLIAE, by Martin Lister M D. and F. R. S. IT was desired that Goedartius and the Notes I had added, might be again printed in Latin, which for some reasons I suffered; and put it into the hands of one to do it, who had performed it better, but that sickness prevented him in the Task. Having yielded that, I was willing to print with it a second Edition of the Appendix to the History of English Animals, having some few things with two Plates of Figures to add, which are new, besides amendments. Also not knowing, but I might be prevented my self either with sickness, or otherwise, I did permit the same Stationer to print off 4 Plates more, which I had by me, very exquisitly designed, of the Beetles of England; and having not the leisure to transcribe and perfect the Tract to which they belonged, I did neither number, nor explain them, and therefore I call them Mute Tables: yet I am desirous thereby to incourage, and recommend even bare and naked designs of the things of Nature; that such persons as are wealthy and much at leisure, and are only willing to please themselves with elegancy of Picture, may do good to posterity, in seeing that part of Natural History well performed, which otherwise is scarce in the power of private men; whose industry and studies are very often at a loss for want of that necessary help; which if well done, might be by them referred too. In the Appendix, besides the additions, the whole genus of ~ fluviatiles is new described with more exactness. Also the Pholas kind (that is, a certain sort of shel-sish) fast inclosed, and that naturally, in submarine Rock's is [834] is much inlarged, and the Animals themselves are figured in some of them: by which a great objection is an~, of those who assert aequivocal generation, for that these are inclosed in the Rock, every one in a single hole of its own making, so that it was difficult to imagine how they could copulate; but by the figure we are eased of this doubt, for each Animal hath a long bodie naturally exerted and extendable to a great length, as may be seen if they are put alive into water; so that we may well imagine, they couple not unlike earthworms, which come out of the ground for that purpose, and extend as much of their body as is necessary to meet a Mate; which if it happen to be near, their bodies are most within the ground, if farthar distant, they are accordingly extended. And after this manner we must think of the Solen kind; which are a sort of shell-fish deep bedded in sand, as the other is in the Rock: these, I say, rise up at certain seasons, and by the like body extended, copulate. 