VII. An Account of B O O K S, Viz. An Account of several late Voyages and Discoveries to the South and North towards the Streights of Magellan, the South Seas, the vast Tracts of Land beyond Hollandia Nova, &c. Also towards Nova Zembla,Greenland or Spitsberg, Groynland or Engronland, &c. By Sir John Narborough, Capt. Jasmen Tasman, Capt. John Wood, and Frederick Marten of Hamburgh. To which are annexed a large Introduction and Supplement. The whole Illustrated with Charts and Figures. London: Printed for Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Prince's Arms in St.Paul's Church-yard. 1694. In Octavo. ABout 14 Months ago these Booksellers published a Curious Collection of Travels into the Levant, and other adjacent Countries, By Rawolf, Belon, Greaves, &c. Of (167) Of which the Transactions take Notice, No. 200. p. 768. And having received Encouragment, do here proceed with the like Design upon other Parts of the World, in order to improve and compleat Geography from Original Authentick Records, and Memoirs of Eye-Witnesses. The present Collection reaching to the most distant Parts of the Southern and Northern Regions of the Globe, and being performed by Skilful Navigators, and Faithful Observers, must needs contain many uncommon and useful Things upon most of the Heads of Natural and Mathematical Sciences, as well as Trade and other Profitable Knowledge, which contribute to the enlarging of the Mind and Empire of Man, too much confin'd to the narrow Spheres of particular Countries, and therefore subject to great Mistakes, and false Conceptions, for want of a large Prospect of Nature and Custom. The Contents of the present Work are very various, and of vast extent, but may be reduced to these Generals: The Introduction, The Voyages of Sir John Narborough, Capt. Jasmen Tasman, Capt. John Wood, Frederick Marten of Hamburgh, and the Supplement: Of which something in Particular. The Introduction gives a Compendious Chronological Account of Navigations and Voyages to those Remote parts, of which the Body of the Book treats, together with some new Reflections in Geography, Hydrography, and Natural History. Sir John Narborough touches upon the Madera and Cape Verd Islands, delineates and describes the Coasts of Patagonia and Chili, together with the Streights of Magellan, of which he took most exact Draughts, going frequently on Shoar, and up into the Country, observing the Products of the Land, the Manners and Tempers of the People, in order to promote and settle an Advantagious Trade, especially in the Golden Country of Chili, esteemed more Rich than Peru itself. In this Voyage (168) Voyage Sir John gives many Proofs of his Excellent Skill in the Art of Navigation, as to the Distances, Longitudes, Latitudes, Tydings, Magnetical Variations, &c. Jansen Tasman was employed by the Dutch East-India Company to make Discoveries towards the Southern Continent: He touches upon Van Diemen's Land, Zelandia Nova, &c. encompassing Hollandia Nova, and New Guinea, which appears to be a great Island by this his Circumnavigation. The whole course is drawn in a particular Chart, which the Booksellers having procured, intend to ingrave it for the use of the Publick. Captain Wood was sent by King Charles the Second to Discover the North-East Passage to China and Japan, which he examines with great Industry, but being Wrackt upon Nova Zembla, was discouraged from further Enquiries. However he gives an Ingenious Description of that Desolate Land, and many Instances of his Generous Designs to Improve and Illustrate the dark Phaenomena of the Magnet. Frederick Marten of Hamburgh, undertook his Northern Voyage to satisfie the Commendable Curiosity of the Royal Society, which he has done with admirable Diligence; giving many Specimens of the Fertility of his Genius in making such considerable Observations in the barren and horrid Climate of Greenland, as to the Weather, the Whale-Fishing, the Animals, Plants, and other parts of Natural History; as also upon the Physical Phaenomena of Snow, Ice, &c. The Supplement was thought fit to be added, in order to compleat the Northern Discoveries, and render the Work more generally useful to those who are delighted with Geographical Studies. It takes in all the North-West Discoveries, performed by Englishmen and others; which being joyn'd with those of the North-East, give a full Idea of that Part of the World, which is accurately drawn in an annext Map. L O N D O N: Printed for Sam. Smith, and Benj. Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Prince's Arms in St. Paul's Church-yard. 1694. 