No. 7. A A B C C B C D D E E F G No. 10. No. 11. A B A B C C D E F D E F G H I K L No. 6. A B C D No.12. Fig.1. E G H F I No. 9. Fig.2. A B C D E F G H $ sculp. [963] An Extract of a Letter from Mr. Anthony Leewenhoeck F. of the R.S. to a S. of the R. Society, Dated from Delf, January 5th. 1685. Concerning the Salts of Wine and Vinegar, &c.d THough I have often excused my self, from examining the various figures of Salts, partly supposing it would be too much labour to me and more especially because in some Attempts of that nature, I formerly had no Success; The Warmness, or Coldness of the Air, causing great differences in the shapes of the Salts; nevertheless, by lighting on a new Method, I have been encouraged to make the following Observations. Having found my yearly provision of Vinegar (which had layn about 3 Months in my Cellar,) to be more sour then ordinary, I left it open to the Air, during some hours, at which time I observ'd a very great many particles (which I call the Salt of the Vinegar,) as Numb. 1 Fig. A. tapering towards each end, and having in the middle a long brownish Figure: other of the same extent as Fig. B. being as clear as Chrystal; and these were the most numerous: others being long and brownish, which had in the middle of them, a bright clear substance, as Fig. C. In another place, were some few oval figures, within which were contained some lesser ovals, as Fig. D. Under the aforesaid Figures. A B C, I thought I saw many that had a Hollowness within them, like that of a Boat; sometimes one of the aforesaid figures, has appeared to me, with the one half brown, and the other part clear; sometimes one of the figures hath layn a thwart another, as at E. Sometimes there were figures, which seemed to have been cut in two, each of them representing but one half of A B, or C, as F. Many of these aforesaid figures were so small, as scarce to be seen, but V 3 withall [964] withall they were so numerous, that I judgd them, to be many thousands, in one small drop of Vinegar: besides an innumerable quantity of small Globules, six whereof would not equall a Blood Globule; and a much greater number of lesser Globules, 36 whereof would not rise to the bigness of a Blood Globule. In a word it seemed incomprehensible, that there should be so many particles contained, in so small a quantity of Moisture, and that transparent too. These aforesaid particles I take to be the Sharp Pungent Matter, which causes the sense in the Tongue, that we term Sour. Altho' by a common Magnifying Glass I have seen the figures of this bigness, yet I suppose, these may be made out of a great many lesser ones, which may have the same figure: just as in Sea-Water, many Millions of Cubical figures, go to the making up one large corns of Salt, of the same shape. I put into a Glass about two Inches wide a little Vinegar,which I let stand upon my Table for 8 Weeks. In this time, I found swimming upon the surface of the Vinegar, many particles, within which I perfectly discerned a hollowness like to that of the inside of a Boat; for the figures were now increased in thickness. Those that had the Cavity turned to the Ey, were as Fig. G. those whose sides were turned to the Ey, which had only part of the Cavity to be seen, were as Fig. H. I have also described, a full grown live Eel (as Fig. LM,) such a one, whereof there were many more in the Vinegar. As also a full grown Eel, which I killed, that the designer might see it more distinctly, as Fig. N O. This also may serve to shew, the bigness of the Salt particles, compared with that of the Eels. It is also to be noted, that the foregoing figures and Eels, are drawn by a common Microscope, and that there were many other smaller Salt particles, to have been discovered by my better Glasses. Also [965] Also, I cannot but take notice, how some Men are deceived, that think the Sourness of Vinegar, proceeds from Eels pricking their Tongues, with their Tails; for if this were true, then would some Vinegar be flat, because there are no Eels in it, or that the Eels are dead in it, as is usuall in cold or frosty weather. I considered some Vinegar, that had Crabs-Eys put in it; because they are said, to take away its sourness. If this be true, I concluded, that the above described Salt particles must be changed, either by increasing the bulk, or becoming more plyable and limber,so as not to pierce the Tongue. I took severall new Glasses, and put in them some Crabs-Eys, split into small pieces, least the grit that comes from them, after they are pounded, should hinder my sight: I found that the long sharp figures, which might be likned to a Weavers Shuttle,were now changed into figures, whose Basis was oblong, rising up Pyramidally, like a pointed Diamond; as Num 2 Fig. P. Others had their Basis square as Fig. ~. Others an irregular Quadrilateral, as Fig. R. But these two last figures, I supposed were accidental, for want of sufficient matter to compleat, and perfect them on all sides. Note that the greatness of these Salt particles, and those in simple Vinegar, must not be compared together; because these are drawn by a Glass, that Magnified more, then that where with the others were drawn; for otherwise, these would not so clearly have been discerned. The number of particles was so great, that (in a gross computation,) I judged them, to be six Thousand in a Drop, about the bigness of two Barly-Corns. But that which I most wondred at, was, that these Salt particles here, were almost all of the same bigness: (a thing I never observed, in any other Salt before.) I took some Vinegar out of a Glass, that had CrabsEys in it, at a time, before all the Air-Bubbles were ascended: [966] cended: But even then the Basis of the Salt particles was foursquare, and not as in common Vinegar. When the Air-Bubbles were most of them ascended, I drank about a third part, of a thimble full of the Vinegar; and found it had no sourness at all in it, but rather a bitterness, and was so loathsome, that it made me ready to vomit. I took also White Chalk, beaten to pieces, and put it in Vinegar, where it caused as great a commotion, and rising of Air-Bubbles, as the Crabs-Eys had done: It produced also, the same figures of the Salt, and the same insipidness. From these observations, I am confirmed in an opinion, which I have been of a great while; that when the sharp subtile particles of Salt, which are in severall liquors, come to be in the Stomack, they are there so coagulated, and compounded, that very few; or none of them, are communicated to the blood, or other parts of the body. For if the Salts of Wine,and Vinegar, did not change their figure, in the Stomack, I believe they would cause in the blood, and other Vessels, an intolerable pricking, if not end anger the life of the party. Besides, if it were not so, I should have met with them,some time or other, either in the Sweat, Blood, or Urine. Also the Salt particles, which are in Wine, or Vinegar, when the weather is moist, are curdled, or go together; but afterwards, let the weather be what it will, I have never found them dissolved, or turned into water. And thus they are more durable then common Salt, which in moist, and cold weather, runs into a liquid form. Again, if the Salts in the Wine, or Vinegar, were not coagulated in the Stomack, the Urine, or Excrement of those that drink them, would smell of them: however, I will not say, that in all Stomacks, there is the like coagulation; but if in some, the Salts are not altered, the drinking of Wine, to such men is very prejudicial. But it [967] it is otherwise with common Salt, for, if a small quantity of that be put in water, it will presently dissolve, and every Corn be divided into Millions of parts, being all of them four square; and if a great deal of Salt, be dissolved in water, and some of the water be evaporated, the Salt runs into great Corns. Now that it is true,that a grain of commonSalt,is divided into square particles, a Thousand Millions of times less then a sand, and that each of these particles, is again divided into an incomprehensible number of other particles, before they will pass from the Bowells into the blood, and other parts of the Body, the assertion will not seem strange, if we consider, that in Infects found in common water, and our Excrements,which are not the bigness of 1/1000000000 of a great sand, there is a Coat, or Skin, and perhaps Scales on it; that there are Feet, or Fins, wherewith it swims; a Mouth, Bowells, Veins, Muscles, Sinews, and all the inwards, as compleatly, as in the greatest Animal: and if the body of so small a Creature, may be imagined so divisible, much more may a particle of Salt. When the blood has been some times out of the Veins, the small Salts then begin to go together, and appear, as I have often seen, and particularly, while I was lately busied about the Crystallin humour of the Eye of a Man, I observed a number of small Salt particles, haveing the figures of common Salt; and I am perswaded, there is not a drop of blood in the body, which has not its share of them. Having thus declared my opinion, upon the parts of Salt, I shall do the same, upon those of water. For as much as that a late Author, hath spoken of them, with such assurance, that ordinary Men coming to read him, imagine, the Snakes of which the water is made, to be very big: but if I should tell them, that those water Snakes are so little, that if a great sandwere divided into a Thousand Million of parts, the Snakes X would [968] would be less then they, I believe this language would sound very harsh. For my own part, I cannot conceive the parts of water to be like Snakes; for I suppose, how little soever they are, they are always flexible; and by consequence put themselves into all figures, according as they are prest by the Air, or other bodys; and that when many water parts are together, each takes a different form, that it may apply it self to its neighbours, and keep, as much as possible, a round figure, as I have formerly said of the parts of fat. For example, let us imagine,that we have a great number of sheeps, or hogs bladders filld with water; these, as they are hung up in Air, will be all round, but as they are heapt up in a tun, and press one on another with their weight, yield, and accommodate themselves so, as to leave no empty space in the tun: thus every bladder hath its particular figure, tho' it most incline to be round; moreover, if the tun be rolld, every bladder upon the least motion, will alter its figure, as it is more or less prest. In the same manner I believe it is, with the Globules of Fat in our Bodys, and also with the particles of water; tho' these latter, I conceive to be so small,that if a sand were divided, into a Thousand Millions of parts,and if 1/1000000000 of a sand particle,was again divided into a Thousand Millions, the water particle, would still maintain the roundish, and plyable figure. I know this above mentioned opinion, that water is made, as it were of Snakes, is not new, but borrowed from the famous Des. Cartes. But (with respect to that Great Man,) every one is free to declare his Judgment, in things which have not been fully discovered, I examined lately my Wine, which is very fine, and well tasted, such as in France is called Vin de Damoisselle, tho' it is but an Orleans Wine, brought down the Loyre; in it I saw many extraordinary pretty figures, of different sizes, and some very small, which I shall call, the [969] the Salt of the Wine: many of these figures, were of the same make, with those, of the Salt of Vinegar abovementioned. I have in some of these figures, not only seen a Cavity, but found them encrease to so great a bigness, (by that time the Wine had stood 24 hours, uncovered npon my Table,) that they equalled the thick particles of Salt, which I had seen in Vinegar, as is here shewed Numb. 3 Fig. A. I saw also some figures, which had no sharp points, but were roundish at the ends, as Fig. B. There were also severall figures, which grew tapering at one end, and at the other were round, as Fig. C. Also some figures, which differed from Fig. C. In that one of their ends, was not round, but flat, as Fig. D. Also some few figures, were longish, representing a thin Right Angled Parallelogram, as Fig. E. Also there were many figures, whose two longest sides were roundish, and whose shortest sides were streight, resembling something a Barrell, as Fig. F.Some few figures made a perfect square; others again, were twice as long, as theywere broad, being largest in the middle, and inclining towards the shortest sides; not much unlike a flat bottom'd Boat, whose fore, and after parts are flat, as Fig. G. While all these figures in great numbers,were driving together,in the quantity of a drop of Wine, twas a pleasure to me, to see so great Variety. These foresaid Salts, I conceive, would be sour upon the Tongue, if there were not a great many sweet particles, in this (as well as other,) Wine, mixt with them, which are not otherwise to be separated, then by setting the Wine to ferment; for thereby it presently looses of its Sweetness, and in time,is changed from a gratefull Wine, to a sour Vinegar. From hence I gather, that the pleasant Relish of Wine, consists, in its having not too many sweet, nor too many sharp parts, but one sort tempering the other, so as to make a Harmony upon the Tongue, and Palat. The same thing we experience dayly, by mixing severall things, which, if they were used simple, X 2 would [970] would be either too sweet, or too flat, or too sour, whereof, I shall give but one Instance. Let us mix, or melt together Butter, and Vinegar; and it will prove a very gratefull sauce. As to Sugar (which is a Salt,) I have formerly said of it, the Sweetness herein consists, that the Angles, or sharp points, of which, the Powder Sugar is made, are easily separated from one another, and dissolved, when they are put in water, chiefly if it be hot; which happens to Sugar in the Mouth; for then it is not only Melted, and mixed with the Spittle, but becomes soft, and plyable, embracing any other body it finds on the Tongue, and communicating to it, 'its pleasantness. From these Positions, we may well comprehend, the severall Tasts that Wines are lyable to, tho' they grow in the same Vineyard; for not only, will the Bunches that grow, on the Southside of the Hill, be Sweeter, because the heat of the Sun, draws from them the superfluous moisture; but the sharp, or Salt parts in the Wine, by taking away the more waterish substance, become more rigid, and stiff. Also, we may imagine the reason, why Wine having stood some time in the open Air,looses its Savour: namely, that many small Salt particles are joined together,to make a few great ones; whereby, as the number of the Salts are lessened, the Sense is not so agreably excited, as if it were toucht in more places, tho' the bodys that do it, are never so small. I Observed some Sherry Sack (which proved to be as good this year, as ever was known,) and therein, discovered the figures of Salts,such as I have above mentioned in French Wine, Numb. 3. Fig. A. As also some longish figures, as G. But all these were but few, in comparison of the figures of Vinegar, and French Wine. Perhaps, if the Sherry had been thinner, the Salts would have appeared more; for there were many small particles, which I could not discribe, because they were obscured by a thick matter, wherein they lay; but when I set some Sack [971] Sack uncovered upon my Table, for three days and nights, I perceived in it, a great number of small particles, some whereof hung by one another, and ~ like the dry Branches, of a Tree: others moved confusedly in the Wine, so as I could not at first determine their shapes; bnt afterwards they seemd, to be like the Salt particles above described, having among them, many flat figures, with their sides turned up; their size was so small, that I judged a Thousand Millions, would not make up the quantity of a Sand. In contemplating some Gross flat particles, as also some sharp ones, which were imperfect, I was confirmed in the make of those bodys, namely, that all the sharp Salt particles in the Wine, and Vinegar, how little soever they are, had at first flat thin bodys, which by being rolld up at the four Corners, make the Salts, I have above described. As for example I see in the Sack, Numb. 4. Fig. A B C D, and E F G H. The sides of the one figure roundish and irregular, and of the other strait, (which I here draw greater then they appear, that their make may the better be seen,) the Corners A & B are bent or rolld up as Fig. I K L, whereby the Corners A and B become a sharp Angle, as is to be seen at I. If the other two Corners C and D were also rolld up in the same manner, we should see the perfect figure of a Salt. When the flat figures are but short, and only two Corners are rolled up, they appear as Q. or R. which are like the figures C and D in Orleans Wine. The appearance of I K L and M N O P, was as distinct, as if I had taken half a sheet of Paper, and rolld it up at the four Corners, to make two sharp Angles, and leave the full breadth in the middle; I could also perfectly see a Hollowness within the figures, as much as can be represented in the Paper. I set some Mosel Wine, for a few hours uncovered upon my Table,and then saw swimming in it,divers figures of Salt, such as I had formerly seen in Wine, Vinegar, X 3 and [972] and Sherry; onely, there was this difference, that in many of them, I could not only perceive a thickness,and a Hollowness, but also distinguish, that each of them consisted of 7, 8, 9, or 10, plates, lying upon one another. These I at first drew roughly,and afterwards got a good Artist to draw them again, from the Objects themselves, with a good Miscroscope, as here Numb. 5. Fig. A. I saw also, severall figures, out of the top of which, other half figures appeared, as Fig. B. There was something like this, in the Orleans Wine, but nothing neer so much as here. I saw also severall Salts, which had other particles thrust thro' them, as Fig. C. There were also some flat figures, whose sides were rolld up, as Fig. D. And some whose shortest sides were indented, as Fig, E. Some appeared like half of A. as Fig. F. A few others had their ends blunt, as G. But it was very strange, that I could see no small figures in the Wine,when it had been exposed to the Air 24 hours upon my Table; yet when it had stood a day longer,there were figures discernable, tho' so small, that I could not discover their fashion,because that the matter that encompassed them, was very thick. I observed in Hockamore Wine, of a year old, (which was well tasted and generous,) after it had stood 3 hours uncovered,that there were Salt particles in it,which were sharp at both ends,having a height,or Ridge upon them, like the sharp bottom of a Boat, turned upside down, though they were otherwise Diaphanous, as Numb. 6 Fig. A. Such a kind of figure, has appeared to me in French Wine; But when I let this Wine stand for two days, and nights, some of the Salt figures were greater, having severall circumferences, some 2, 3, 4, and others so many, that they could not be counted, as they lay close together;some were so beautifull that no Sea Production, whether Corall, or shells, might be compared to them, As in Fig. B. Among these figures, some were so transparent, [973] rent that their Circumferences were not to be seen, but some few seemed to be compounded, of small figures of the same shape. I saw some that were blunt at both ends, yet one would be blunter, then another, and some times one end, more then another: as Fig. C. In another place, I saw, swimming in the Wine, Salts, which had not only severall circumferences, but steps, or wrinkles across, as at D. Moreover, I saw some little particles of different fizes, which had the aforesaid circumferences, but many of them exactly represented a Wine Vessel, as some of a Foeder, or Rhenish Wine Vessel; others a long Tun; in observing some places, where the thinner part of the Wine, was evaporated away, I found severall figures like Branches, or Boughs, seeming to proceed from one Salt particle; in viewing them exactly, I saw that the Branches consisted of nothing but very small Salts, joined together, some whereof were very regular, and the greatest were placed at the end of the Branches, as at F G H I. In the beginning of December last, I observ'd the Hockamor Wine, which grew in the year 1678, and found at first, very few Salt particles; But when I had let the Wine stand 3 or 4 days, there were many more, tho' in much lesser numbers, then in the same Wine, that was but of a year old. But I am perswaded, that the largest of these, consisted each, of above a hundred small ones, compacted together, as N. 7. Fig. A. When the greatest Salts, were got together, the smaller particles swimming in the Wine, cleaved to them, for there were none of them, to be seen about the great ones, though I sought for them, twelve severall times. Now and then, there was a figure, that seemed the half of the aforementioned, as B. and thereby, some small figures which were Diaphanous, and whose points, were not proportionably sharp, as the great ones, as Fig. C. There were also some Diaphanous particles, greater then the last mentioned having [974] having a small figure in the Middle, as D. There were also, a few that were blunt at the ends, as E. There were also some resembling dryed Branches of a Tree, (as was mentioned in Wine of a year old,) which branch like figures consisted of small Salts, hanging together. From these Observations, I guess what may be the cause, that Rhenish Wine, not only keeps good a great many years, in a well stopt Vessel, but also looses its sourish tast, and takes one that is sweeter, and milder; namely, for that the Salt particles in the Rhenish Wine, cleave together, and then stick to the bottom, and sides of the Fat, (being called by us Tartar,) and by how much older the Rhenish Wine is,by so much are the Salts fewer. But the nature of French Wines is contrary, (as I have Observed,) for the Salts in a well stopt Vessel, do not run together (Chiefly in Burdeaux) Wines,and therefore they never get a Milder, or Sweeter tast: But in Wines that come from Nants, tho' the Salts run more together, nevertheless the Sweetness is presently lost. I bought some Wine for Rinco, very pleasant, and of the growth of 1683. But it proved to be of the Palatinate. At first I observed few Salts in it, but when it had stood open 24 hours, I discovered many, that were sharp at each end, as N. 8. Fig. A. having a division running along them, but being otherwise Diaphanous,and appearing by the Microscope, of the same bigness here drawn; but there were an innumerable quantity of a lesser sort, which were of the same figure. I also perceiv'd some, that resembled a Wine Vessel, but they proved to have two sides rolled up, as Fig. B. (and perhaps, others of the same figure, which I have before mentioned, may be rolld up like them,in regard I then might have seen them onely, by the plain side.) Likewise may the Salt figures, which I have described as blunt, at one or both ends, be like C. and D. I saw also figures as A. which had both their sharp points rolled up together, as at C. Also figures [975] gures whose one end, was not rolld, as at D. Some few figures there were, whose Basis was square, having the sides rising up Pyramidal like a pointed Diamond, as E. But of these, there were not above one, or two, in a Drop of Wine. Some times one of these figures, would be place in the middle of another, as at E. (which remarks in some other Wines,I have thought scarce deserved to be mentioned.) Some Salt figures, had their sides rolld up, so as the ends did not touch one another; but left an opening in the middle, as at F. Whereas others, that were more shut, seemd only to have a line upon the back of them. Sometimes there appeared figures long, and slender,as G.as to these last, I am in doubt whether they are compleat, or only a beginning of a figure, there being some stuff wanting, to perfect them: for there were few swimming in the Wine, but most of them lay in places that were almost dry. But above all, the number of a sort of small soft particles, was the greatest, to which, I can allot no other figure, then Globular, the whole body of the Wine (except the Salt particles,) seeming to consist of them, and the Sweetness to take thence its rise. I took a little Rinco Wine, which had workt in the Fat, all the foregoing Summer, and had been pierced some weeks since, when it was fine, and had a good tast; this Wine,when it had stood upon my Table, about an hours time, had many Salt particles in it; but after it had stood sixteen hours, the Salts were thick, and had such a deep Boat-like figure, as I have formerly mentioned in Vinegar; and may be here seen N. 9. Fig. A. There were also severall Salts, that had other brown longish figures in the middle of them; and some that had two, three, and four circumferences, as Fig. B. Some particles had a line, or joynt running thro' them. Others were altogether Diaphanous, as Fig. C. Others had one sharp end, and the other blunt, by reason that they were Y not [976] not yet perfect; as I have above mentioned. And some again were very Diaphanous as may be seen under the Letter D. Some figures appeared as E. and when I lookt upon the places, where the Wine lay thin, and was almost evaporated, I saw a great number of particles, the most of which, had two sharp ends,and were a Thousand Millions of times smaller, then a great Sand. I saw also particles of Salt, swimming about, which had the true shape of a Wine Vessel, but they were very thin and clear; and I could not perceive any line or joynt, going through them. There were also severall Oblong particles, very thin and clear, and therewithall very small; tho' they be drawn great, as at Fig. H. Because I was forced to use to F and H, a lesser Microscope then to the other six Letters A B C D E and G. Also when the Wine had layn thin,there were severall Branch-like figures,consisting of irregular Salts, the shape of many whereof, could not well be exprest. I examined Ceronce Wine, and found the Salts to be mostly, as N. 10. Fig. A. Some of which were, as it were, rolld up; others were thin and pellucid; and others when the Wine had stood long, were so thick, that they had a brown circumference about them, as Fig. B. Severall were like the half of A and B, as Fig. C. I examined also Coteau Wine, and found severall particles, as A B C, N. 10. And moreover, severall whose sides were rolled up, as Fig. D. Also flat figures, whose longest sides were strait, and both the ends Circular, as Fig. E. Also Salts having a sharp point, as Fig. F. Also particles representing a flat bottom'd Boat, turnd up side down, as Fig. G. Other of the same make I could look into, as into a Cavity. There were also, severall very small and long particles, as Fig. H. which I imagine, if they had more stuff, would have been as E. There were likewise some Salts, as Fig. I. I also observed Tonsain Wine, which was very thick and [977] and Sweet; (tho' many in this place do think, that the Sweetness,which this Wine has had,for 4 years past, is not naturall, but procured by Brim-Stone, high Country Wine, or Syrups,) I found the Salts to be the same, as those in Coteau Wine,but not so many in number as they; this only difference there was between them, that in the Tonsain Wine, severall figures had as it were stairs or partitions in them, as Fig. 10. Letter K. I took Tonsain Wine, which was said to be pure, and unmixt; and discovered in it, all the Salts mentioned in Coteau and Tonsain Wine, but I judged that the number of the Salts, in this fermenting Tonsain Wine was 25 times more, then in the Sweet Tonsain Wine, but not so big as they. Also the Salts in this last Wine, after a few hours swam about, but in the Sweet Wines, the Salts were a great while before they appeared. I found likewise in Citeruse Wine, all the severall Salts which were in Tonsain, and Coteau Wine, in great Quantity. I took High Country Wine, of the deepest sort, and found swimming in it, very few Salt figures, tho' I let it stand 3 days and nights; but the Salts were much bigger, then in the Coteau and fine Tonsain Wine; and had the shape of A B D, and G, in N. 10. I took Rhenish Wine Tartar, beaten very small, and put it in fair Rain-Water, and when the water was setled, I saw in it, many such figures, as I have mentioned to be in the Wine, viz. some which were very clear, and had two sharp ends, as N. 10. Fig. L. But the most of them, were very irregular, the cause whereof may be, that there was no sweet, or Oyly stuff mixed with them. I took the Tartar of French Wine, and examining it in the same manner, as the former, I found some Salts, which agreed perfectly with those in the Wine; but the rest of them were more irregular, then in the Tartar of Rhenish Wine. Y 2 I [978] I took Orleance Wine, pure as it came out of the Vessel, and put into every drop, (as neer as I could guess,) a piece of Crabs-Ey, as broad as the knife, and when it had stood 3 hours, I could find no such Salt in it, as I had seen in the Wine, that had no Crabs-Eys. But there were very many Salts,whose basis were an oblong square, and the sides rose up Pyramidall. Other Salts were flat,as N. II. Fig. A. Others were six sided, as Fig. B. Others had two slanting sides, as Fig. C. Some few Quadrilateralls had foursided figures within them, as D. Others of them, had the shortest sides something irregular. Some Salts were as Fig. E. In these last I could perceive no rising, perhaps because they were very little. As I viewed a piece of Crabs-Eys, I saw rising as it were from a point, in about fifty places, severall thin Pipes, as cleer as Christall, one whereof was longer then another, but they were all generally of the same thickness. I likewise took Wine, and put white Chalk into it, in the same quantity as before, letting it stand about a quarter of an hour, before I observed it, and then I found a great number of the afore mentioned Salts; but they were not so big, as those in the Wine mixed with Crabs-Eys; but when this Wine and Chalk, had stood about 12, or 14 houres, I saw the Salts above mentioned, not only greater, but the Pipes likewise in severall places, rose from a point of Chalk, in great quantities, as above in N. II. Fig. F. These Pipes also, were bigger then the others, tho' they differed sometimes in bigness, among themselves. The Wine that had CrabsEys in it, had a kind of a Skin upon it, (which I judgd to proceed from its sweet particles,) but the Wine that had Chalk in it, had none, and remained very thin. I put into Rinco Wine, some pieces of Crabs-Eys and after 12, or 15. Minutes, discovered a few Salts in it; but when the Wine had rested some hours, I found in it a very great number of figures, as N. IIA B C D Eand F. [979] F. the Salt figures first discovered, were now grown big, tho' none of them were like the Salts in Rinco Wine, which had no Crabs-Eys in it. Since we now see, by all the foregoing Observations, that Rhenish, and French Wine, contain no Salts, which agree in figure, with the Salts in the Chalk, which is taken from Men that have the Gout; we may now confidently say, that the Salt of Wine does not cause the Gout; and hereof we have a dayly experience, for some persons, that drink great quantities of Rhenish, and French Wine, have never had any touch of the Gout; and others that drink no wine at all, are very much troubled with it. From this Cleaving together of the Salts in Wine, and the alteration of their figures,we may ascertain our selves, that in a well constituted body, the Salts of Wine do not pass into the blood; chiefly, if we take it for granted, that the use of the Stomack, and Bowells, is 1. to break in pieces the Meat, 2, to make the grosser particles come together. 3, to send the thinnest stuff, and smallest particles of the Meat into the body, for its nourishment. P.S.Since the writing this Letter, I have opened a Bitch, and found in the Womb, or rather in both the Tubes, a great quantity of the Male Seed of a Dog: concerning which I shall inlarge in my next. Y 3 Description 