(1010) An Essay tending to make a probable Conjecture of Tempers and Dispofitions by the Modulations of the Voice in ordinary Discourse. Communicated also by the forementioned person. SItting in some Company, and having been but a little before Musical, I chanc'd to take notice that in ordinary discourse words were spoken in perfect Notes, and that some of the Company used Eights, some Fifths, some Thirds: and that his Discourse, which was most pleasing, his words, as to their Tone, consisted most of Concords; and where of Discords, of such as made up Harmony. The same person was the most affable, pleasant, and the best natured in the Company. This suggests a Reason, why many Discourses which one hears with much pleasure, when they come to be read scarce seem the same things. So one whose pronunciation is not affectedly, but naturally musical, we term well-spoken: whereas another may speak as good Wit or sense, and yet not have half the acceptance. From the difference of Musick, in Speech we may also con jecture that of Tempers. We know, the DorickMood sounds Gravity and Sobriety; the Lydian, Buxomness and Freedom; the AEolique, sweet Stilness, and quiet Composure; the Phrygian, Jollity and Youthsul Levity; the lonique is a stiller of storms and disturbances arising from passion. And why may we not reasonably suppose, that those, whose speech naturally runs into the Notes peculiar to any of these Moods, are likewise in Nature hereunto congenerous? So also from the Cliff, as he that speaks in Gamut, to be manly, G Fa Ut, may show one to be of an ordinary Capacity, tho good disposition. G Sol Re Ut, to be peevish and effeminate, and of a weak and timerous Spirit. Sharps an effeminare; Flats, a manly or melancholick sadness. He who hath a voice which will, in some measure, agree with all Cliffs, to be of good Parts and fit for variety of Employments, yet somewhat af an inconstant Nature. Likewise from the Times; so Semibreifs may speak a Temper dull, and flegmatick; Minums, grave; and serious Crochets, a prompt Witt; Quavers, vehemency of Passion, and Scolds use (1011) use them. Semibreif-Rest may denote one either stupid, or fuller of thoughts than he can utter; Minum-Rest, one that deliberates; Chrochet-Rest, one in a Passion; So that from the Natural use of Mood, Note, and Time, we may collect Dispositions. 