(1000) Anatomical Observations in the Body of a Woman about 50 years old, who died Hydropical in her left Testicle, Decemb. 30 1677. Made and Communicated by the Learned Dr. Henry Sampson. Extracted out of his Latine Copy, by the Author of these Transactions. SHe had been married, but had never born Child. Had been a Widdow for about ten years before her death. In which time she was much oppressed with grief; and her Belly, by degrees, began to swell: yet not much,till about four years before she dy'd, In the year 1678; at which time she weighed 216 l. I advised her to the use of Cathartick Hydragoges, and Diureticks, after the use of which for some time, she weighed but 200 l. But still the morbifick matter was reaccumulated to the diseased Part. So that resolving to forbear further Medicines, within half a year after, she weighted 250 l. her belly being, at last, so far distended, as to hang down, as she sat, a good way below her knees. Being called to open her, I put a Pipe into the Cavity of the Abdomen, with intent to exhaust the Serum supposed to be gathered therein. But hereupon there issued only some few drops like the white of an Egg. At another place there ran about 20 l. of a brownish water or Serum; one of the Vesicles hereafter mentioned being pierced. Where to enter my knife next, I was almost at a stand, her belly being as yet, scarce at all lessened. Having separated the Muscles of the Abdomen, I found no Serum or Hydropick Water therein; but a heap of Bladders, of several sises, presented themselves. From the greatest whereof, being pierced, there issued above 20 l. more of a brown and thickish Serum, tinctur'd with a Sediment of the colour of Umber. Some of the lesser were about the bigness of a Childs head; which yielded a slimy Serum, in consistence and colour, like the Mucilage of Quince Seeds. Others were much less, some as big as a mans fist, some as an ordinary Apple, and some as a Walnut. In most of which was conteined a Serum like to the White of an Egg. in some of them, much less viscous and somewhat white, like Starch newly boyl'd. At (1001) At the length I perceived, that all these Bladders were parts some way relating to the Womb. Wherefore having seperated the Ossa Pubis, I took out the Womb, with the Pudendum, and parts appendent all together. And then, amongst other particulars, observed, That the right Testicle or Ovary was but small, white, and its Vesicles in a manner dryed up. But the left to be swell'd into a Vast bulk: The aforesaid Bladders, in one of which were contained so many pounds of Liquor, being nothing else originally, but the Eggs belonging to this left Ovary. Imagine you saw about 40 Bladders, some of a little Pig, others of a Hog, or a Calf, and some of an Oxe: all distended with Liquor, and ty'd, like a Reeve of Onions altogether, and you have also seen this Ovary. The Testicle or Ovary it self,all the Serum being exhausted, weighed (together with the Womb, which was but light) 25 l. Out of all the said Vesicles or Bladders together, were exhausted above an hundred & twelve pounds of Serum. Thus for the Authors own Observations. The History of the Child that was found in the Mothers Belly out of the Womb, published in the Transactions last foregoing, sc. Num. 139; and this of the Hydropick Testicle; may be two Argnments, further to satisfy those who have hitherto doubted of the Female Testicle its being an Ovary. The former proving the Vesicles thereof with the Humor or Humors they contein, to be the Eggs out of which the Faetus is bred. Which as they are used to enter into the Womb by the Fallopian Tube: So in this case, it is most likely that the Egg falling off the Ovary into the said Tube, by some preternatural contraction of its lower Orifice, was stopped from issuing thence into the Womb. Yet being, it seems, near enough to receive the Vital Contact, It thereupon began to be enlarged; and so, by reason of its own increasing Bulk, was made gradually to slip back again towards the upper and larger Orifice of the said Tube, and at last, to drop thence into the Cavity of the Abdomen; which now, instead of the Womb, became its Nest. This latter History of the Hydropick Testicle sheweth, That it is possible for the said Vesicles or Eggs, to be enlarged, upon Conception, as much as is necessary for the 6 P 2 Genera(1002) Generation of a Child: That is to say, when within the Womb, as much as they were here, upon the Ovary. So that it is not, I conceive, reasonably to be doubted, but that the Membranes, which we call the Secundine or AfterBirth, are the Individual ones, which belong to that Vesicle or Egg which falls from the Ovary into the Womb: Being therein, with their conteined Humor, naturally augmented and amplified, as here they were preternaturally, in this Hydropical Case. 