The Royal Society of London PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS Volume 8 1673 Reprinted by permission of The Royal Society of London JOHNSON REPRINT KRAUS REPRINT CORPORATION CORPORATION NEW YORK 1963 The Royal Society of London PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS Volume 8 1673 Reprinted by permission of The Royal Society of London JOHNSON REPRINT KRAUS REPRINT CORPORATION CORPORATION NEW YORK 1963 The only official reprint authorized by The Royal Society of London PHILOSOPHICAL Transactions: GIVING SOME A C C O M P T OF THE Present Undertakings, Studies and Labours OF THE I N G E N I O U S IN MANY Considerable Parts OF THE W O R L D. VOL. VIII. For the Year M DCLXXIII. LONDON, Printed by T.R. for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society; at the Bell in St. Pauls Church-Yard. The INDEX for this Eighth Volume of the Year 1673. The first Figure refers to the Number of the Tracts; the 2nd to the Page. Note, that, by a mistake, p.6000. immediately follows p. 5199. and holds on all along. A. AIR, with relation it has to Flame and towards Explosions and the Flamma vitalis. See M. Boyle n.92. Air's Moisture, and its Effects, Mr. Boyle n.97. Amber-greece, a Vegetable excretion. 97. 6137. Anatome. Some Animals that have Lungs, are yet found to be without the Arterious veins, 94.6040. De nasi-cornis scarabaei genitalibus, ibid by Dr. Swammerdam. Mr. Lister on the same, and of the Chyle and Guts, ibid. Stones 38 found in a man's bladder, some considerably great. Another Drum, besides the known one, discover'd in the Ear: See Mengoli in Books, n.100. Astronomy. A discovery of two more Planets about Saturn, and their motions observed by Signor Cassini, 92.5176. Jupiter accurately observed by Mr. Flamstead to determin his Inclination to the Ecliptick, 94.6033. Observations of the same concerning the extreamest Elongations of the exterior Jovialists from the center of Jupiter, 96.6094. Of the Planets diameters and distances from the Fixed: And of the Parallax of Mars Acronic and Perige, ibid. n.96. Of the appulses of the Moon and other Planets to the Fixt Stars, predicted for the Year 1674. n.99.6162. B. A Bee-hive used in Scotland with good success, to save the Bees from swarming, 96.6076. The Blood-staunching liquor proved, 94 6039.& 95.6052.6074.& 96.6078. Books. Th. Bartholini Acta Medica & Philosoph. A. 1671.& 1672.n. 97.6135. Mr. Boyle on the Relation between Flame and Air. It. about Explosions. His Hydrostatical discourses against Dr. More and Mr. Sinclair. 92.5197. The same, of the strange Subtlety, Efficacy, and Determinate nature of Effluviums Of the parts of Fire and Flame made stable and ponderable; and forced to pass through Glass, and there arrested and weighed, 96.6101. The same, Tracts about the Saltness of the Sea; a Statical Hygroscope and its Uses; the Force of the Airs moisture; of the Natural and Preternat. state of Bodies; a Sceptical dialogue about the Positive or Privative nature of Cold, 97.6127. The sorce of Freesing ibid. Dr. Edw. Browns Travels in Hungaria, Servia, Bulgaria Macedonia, Thessalia, Austria, Stiria, Carinthia, Carniola Friuli, 94.6049. Anton'i Eygel Apologema pro Urinis humanis, 99.6175. Dr. Fairfax of the Bulk and Selvage of the World, 99.6172. Anton'i le Grand Historia Naturae. 94 6046. Dr. Grew's Idea of a Physological History: A continuation of the Anatomy of Vegetables; and first of Roots, and of their Vegetation, 97. 6131. M. Du Hamel de Corpore Animato, 98. 6151. Joh. Hovelii Machinae caelestis pars prior, Organographiam A stronomicam, plurimis Iconibus exornatam exhibens, 99. 6171. Th. Hobbs, Principia & Problemata aliquot Mathematica, ante desperata nunc breviter explicata & demonstrata, 97. 6131. Chr. Hugenii Horologium Oscillatorium um, 95. 6068. Mr. Kerseys Elements of Algebra advanced, 95. 6073. Mengoli Musica Speculativa, n.100. Sir Sam. More of modern Fortifications, 95. 6071. Sir Sam. Moreland's description and use of two Arithmet. Instrum. 94. 6048. P. Pardies de la Statique, 94. 6042. Joh. Porizius; Vini Rhenani, inprimis Baccharacensis, Anatomia Chymica, 93. 6019. Franc. Redi, Experienze intorno a diverse cose naturali: In which he examins many Medical matters, and waters, of greatest same, and finds many false reports: Glass-bullets, &c. tried in the stomach of pullets ducks, pigeons. Glass-drops, Jewels, Mattals, thus tried: The Torpedo, and many other rarities consider'd, 92. 6001. Is Vessius The INDEX. Is. Vessius de Poemalum cantu & viribus Rhythmi 93 6024 Georg Wedelii Specimen Experimenti novi de ~ ~ ~ too. Th Willisu D arriba de Medicom. Operationibus in Humano co ~ in which he deduceth all the Opereations from Mechanical principles, 99 6165 Buildings ~ choice of Stones and other Materials; and a proposal for retriving the Art of hardning Steel to cut Porphyre 63. 6010. C. COld and its force; whether of a positive or privative nature See Boyle in Books. Colours and Light: The Theory of these discussed afresh between Mr. Newton and a Parsian an. 96. 6089. and 97. 6107. Coral, What it is, whether a vegetable or mineral 99. 6108. D. D Rawing: A new manner of delineating by parallel rays, to an Orthographical equality, the gesture, scituation, and whatever habit of human bodies, keeping the proportion on of parts, 96. 6079 E. EAr, described by Mengoli in Books, Another Drum, besides the known one, discover'd in the Ear. See Anatomy. F. FIshing; a pleasant way of catching Carps, by Mr. Templer, 95. 6066. Frost, the strange Freesing about Christmass time 1672. to the destruction of Trees and quick Hedges, with sudden heats observ'd in Somersetshire confirmed in the main by Dr. Wallis from Oxon, 92. 5196. G. G Ranaries; the effects of Thundring and Lightnings observed in the Granaries of Dantzick, 96. 609. H. HEaring; See Mengoli in Books. M. MAgnetical Variations and Inclinations undertaken to be explicated by Mr. Bond, 95. 6065. Mathematicks A Demonstration of the Vibrations made in a Cycloid, 94. 6.87. Monsieur Slusius his manner of drawing Tangents to any Curve absq; calculo, 95 6059. The first Invention and Demonstration of the Equality of the Curve line of a Paraboloeid to a Streight line Affected to M. William Neile from the pretences made by some for Heurat: And the finding a Strenght line equal to that of a Cycloid and to the parts the cof, assested to Sir Chr.V Vren 98. 6146. Medical considerations. Much studying and discoursing supposed to hinder Concoction, and to destroy health, 96. 6093. Medicins; their Operations deduced from Mechanical principles. See Willis in Books. Medical Communications from Turky; the maladie of Aleppo, the plague of Constantinople, fever.Opium how used there to cureHorses of the ~ of the guits 93 6017. Mottals how far improved in Gunnery by a certain powder, 94.6040 Minerals; odd substances discovered in English Mines, n.100. Monsters: A monstrous and very strange Human faetus at Paris, 99.6157. Mountain of Ice in Helvetia describ'd and represented, n. 100. Musick; the Natural History thereof, n. 100. O. OPiates: See Willis in Books. Opium how used in Turky; See Medical Communications, Opticks: A specimen of Microscopical Observations with the figures, made in Holland, Item, M. Slusius and M. Hugenius about Alhazens problem de puncto reflexionis in speculis concavis aut convexis, 97. 6119. & 98. 6140. P. A Powder which will sometimes fulminate, sometimes not, 92. 6003. A powder very beneficial in casting of Guns, 94. 6040. R R Arities of chief fame examin'd, see Redi in Books. Rott in Sheep, its remedy, n 100. S. SAlt: The principles and causes of the Volatilisation of Salt of Tartar, and other Salts, by Dr. Van der Beck, 92. 5189. Ships; their Hulls how to be preserved from worms, &c. by a new, cheap and dutable Way. n. 100. Snow; the nature and figures of it, by Dr. Grew, 92. 5193. Stones of great fame examined: See Redi in Books. Many stones, to the number of 38, greater and smaller, found in a mans bladder, 99. 6155. Snake-stones, Est-stones, Diamonds, Topaz, Bohemian Jasper, Porphyre Pearl, examined; See the Book of Redi. Stones figur'd like Plants, n.100. T. THunder and Lightning, the Effects thereof upon Granaries, See Granaries. Turky leather; the manner how dressed in Turky, 93. 6017. See there other Communications from Turky. Tides; their peculiar Current about the Orcades, 98.6139. Tobacco poyson, See Books, Redi. Torpedo, how stupifying, ibid. V. VEgetables: Root-graffing commended by Experience, 95. 6067. The Cocao and Chocolato tree; the way of its curing and husbandry, &c. 93. 6007. Vegetables of great fame examined. Redi. Virginia's advantage for building Ships, 93. 6015. Vetns in Plants, 6060. Vines advantaged by the roof of an house, 93. 6016 W. WOod: Pimenta di Ciapi, the Root della Manique, Sassatras the Root John Lopez Pineiro, the Lactescent plant of Cambaja Calamba-wood, Vanillas, Wood of Lahor and Solot, Pe uvian bark, &c. examined. See Redi in Books. World; the bounds of it by Dr. Fairsax. See him in Books. FINIS. (5175) Numb. 92. Beginning the Ninth Year'. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. March 25. 1673. The C O N T E N T S. A Preface to this Ninth Year. A Discovery of two New Planets about Saturn, made by Signor Cassini. An Extract of a Letter of Dr. Von der Beck to Dr. Langelot concerning the Principles and Causes of the Volatilisation of Salt of Tartar and other Fixed Salts. Some Observations touching the nature of Snow, presented to the R. Society by Dr. Grew. A Confirmation of what was deliver'd in Numb. 90. about the Strange Freezing in Somersetshire. An Accompt of two Books: I. Tracts written by R. Boyle Esquire, containing New Experiments touching the Relation betwixt Flame and Air, and about Explosions: An Hydrostatical Discourse occasion'd by some Objections of Dr. More; to which is annex't an Hydrostatical Letter, about a Way of Weighing water in water: New Experiments, of the Positive or Relative Levity of Bodies under water; of the Air's Spring on Bodies under water; and about the Differing Pressure of Heavy Solids and Fluids. In which Accompt is occasionally inserted the Publisher's Reply to Mr. George Sinclair's Paper, called a Vindication of the Preface of his Ars Nova & Magna Gravitatis & Levitatis. II. Experienze intorno a diverse cose Naturali, fatte da Francesco Redi. Y y y y y The (6031) Numb.94. PHILOSOPHICAL T R A N S A C T I O N S. May 19. 1673. The C O N T E N T S. A Demonstration of the Synchronisme of the Vibrations made in a Cycloid, given by a Person of Quality. An Extract of Mr. Flamsteads Letter, containing some more accurate Observations of Jupiter, useful for determining that Planets Inclination to the Ecliptique. A Specimen of some Microscopical Observations lately made in Holland. An Extract of a Letter from M. Denys, giving notice of an admirable Liquor, instantly stopping the Blood of Arteries prickt or cut, without any suppuration, or without leaving any scar or cicatrice. A Description of the Uses of a certain Powder for yielding a very close and smooth Mettal, and of easier carriage, &c. Extracts of two Letters of Dr. Swamerdam, concerning some Animals, that having Lungs are yet found to be without the Arterious Vein; together with some other curious particulars. An Accompt of some Books: I. LA STATIQUE, ou la Science des Forces Mouvantes; par le P. Ignace Gaston Pardies. II. Antonii le Grand HISTORIA NATURAE. III. The Description and Use of two ARITHMETICK INSTRUMENTS; together with a short Treatise, explaining and demonstrating the Ordinary Operations of Arithmetick; as likewise a Perpetual Almanack, and several Useful Tables; by S. Moreland. IV. A Brief Account of some Travels in Hungaria, Servia, Bulgari, Macedonia, &c. by Edward Brown M D. F f f f f f No: (6051) Numb.95. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. June 23. 1673. The C O N T E N T S. Experiments of a present and safe way of staunching by a Liquor the Blood of Arteries as well as Veins; made both in London and Paris. Monsieur Slusius his easy way of demonstrating his Method of drawing Tangents to all sorts of Curves without any labour of Calculation. A Note of Dr. Wallis upon Mr. Listers Observation concerning the Veins in Plants. Mr. Listers Letter taking notice of Dr.Wallis's remarque,and withal containing some Anatomical Observations and Experiments touching the Unalterable Character of the Whiteness of the Chyle within the Milky vessels; together with divers particulars observ'd in the Gutts. The Undertakings of Mr. Henry Bond concerning the Variation and Inclination of the Magnetique Needle. Some Observations upon a pleasant way of catching Carpes, by Mr. John Templer. An easy way of raising Fruittrees to what numbers any desires, by Mr. Lewis. An Accompt of some Books: I. Christiani Hugenii HOROLOGIUM OSCILLATORIUM: II. Sr. Jonas More's MODERN FORTIFICATION: III. The Elements of that Mathematical Science, call'd ALGEBRA, by John Kersey. I ii iii Experiments (6075) Numb. 96 P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. July 21. 1673. The C O N T E N T S. A Description and Representation of a Bee-house useful to prevent the Swarming of Bees; used in Scotland with good success. An Account of the success of the Experiments, promised at the end of the next precedent Transactions. A New way of Orthographically delineating by parallel visual rays the postures and the actions of an Humane body, exactly observing the symmetry and proportion of the parts; by Mr. John Saint-Clare. An Extract of a Letter written by an Ingenious person from Paris, containing some new Considerations upon Mr. Newtons doctrine of Colours; as also upon the Effect of the different Refractions of the Rays in Telescopical Glasses. Mr. Newtons Answer to that Letter, further explaining his Theory of Light and Colors, and particularly his Doctrine of Whiteness; together with his continued hopes of perfecting Telescopes by Reflexions rather than Refractions. A relation from Dantzick, of an uncommon Case in Physick; and another from the same place, about an odd effect of Thunder and Lightning upon Wheat and Rye in the Granaries of that City. A Letter of Mr. Flamsteed to Signor Cassini, containing some New Observations, made after a new and accurate way, of the farthest E'ongations of the Medicean Stars from the Center of Jupiter; together with some other un-common ones concerning the Diameters of the Planets and their Distances from Fixed Stars, as also of the Parallax of Mars, &c. An Account of a Book: viz. Several Tracts written by the Honourable Robert Boyle, of the strange Subtilty,Efficacy,and Determinate nature of EFFLUVIUM'S; of New Experiments to make the parts of FIRE and FLAME stable and ponderable; together with some Additional Experiments about Arresting and Weighing of Igneous corpuscles; as also a Discovery of the Perviousness of Glassto Ponderable parts of Flame, &c. M m m m m m A (6107) Numb.97. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. For the Months of August, September and October. Octob. 6. 1673. The C O N T E N T S. Extracts of two Letters, the one of Mr. Newton, concerning the Number of Colors, and the Necessity of mixing them all for the production of White, &c; the other, of a Philosopher at Paris,by way of Answer to the former. A Letter of the Honorable Robert Boyle concerning the Vegetable nature of Amber. Greece, according to an Extract taken out of a Dutch EastIndian Journal. A Letter about the success of the Royal Styptique water in the Fleet. The Figures of some New Microscopical Observations, together with the Description of them, concerning some parts in Bees, not discover'd before. Some Letters exchanged between Monsieur Slusius and Monsieur Hugenius, about a considerable Optic Problem of Alhazen. An Account of four Books: I. Tracts consisting of Observations about the Saltness of the Sea;an Account of a Statical Hygroscope and its Uses;an Appendix about the Force of the Air's moisture; as also a Discourse of the Natural and Preternatural State of Bodies; by Robert Boyle Esq; To all which is premised a Sceptical Dialogue about the Positive or Privative nature of Cold, by a Member of the R. Society. II. Principia & Problemata aliquot geometrica,ante disperata,nunc breviter explicata & demonstrata, Auth.T.H.Malmesburiensi. III.An Idea of a Phytological History; together with a Continuation of the Anatomy of Vegetables, particularly of Roots; and an Account of the Vegetation of Roots; by Nehemiah Grew M.D. and Fellow of the R.Society. IV. Thomae Bartholini Acta Medica & Philosophica. Q q q q q q Extracts 