Enquiries concerning Agriculture. Whereas the Royal Society, in prosecuting the Improvements of Natural knowledg, have it in design, to collect Histories of Nature and Arts, and for that purpose have already, according to the several Inclinations and Studies of their Members, divided themselves into divers Committees, to execute the said design: Those Gentlemen, which do constitute the Committee for considering of Agriculture, and the History and Improvement thereof, have begun their work with drawing up certain Heads (92) Heads of Enquiries, to be distributed to persons Experienced in Husbandry all over England, Scotland, and Ireland, for the procuring a faithful and solid information of the knowledg and practice already obtained and used in these Kingdoms; whereby, besides the aid which by this means will be given to the general End of collecting the aforementioned History, every place will be advantaged by the helps,that are found in any, and occasion ministred to consider, what improvements may be further made in this whole matter. Now to the End,that those Enquiries may be the more universally known, and those who are skilful in Husbandry, publickly invited to impart their knowledg herein, for the common benefit of their Countrey, it hath been thought fit to publish the effect of them in Print, and withall to desire, that what such persons shall think good from their own Knowledg and Experience to communicate hereupon, they would be pleased to send it to the Printers of the Royal Society,to be delivered to either of the Secretaries of the same. The Enquiries follow. 1. For Arable. 1. The several kinds of the soyls of England, being supposed to be, either Sandy, Gravelly, Stony, Clayie, Chalky, Light-mould, Heathy, Marish, Boggy, Fenny, or Cold weeping Ground; information is desired, what kind of soyls your Country doth most abound with, and how each of them is prepared,when employed for Arable? 2. What peculiar preparations are made use of to these Soyls for each kind of Grain; with what kind of Manure they are prepareds when how,& in what quantity the Manure is laid on? 3. At what seasons and how often they are ploughed; what kind of Ploughs are used for several sorts of Ground? 4. How long the several Grounds are let ly fallow? 5 How,and for what productions,Heathy Grounds may be improved?And who they are(if there be any in your Country) that have reduced Heaths into profitable Lands? 6. What ground Marle hath over head? How deep generally it lieth from the surface? What is the depth of the Marle it self? What the colour of it? Upon what grounds it is used? What (93) What time of the year it is to be laid on? How many loads to an Acre? What Grains Marled Land will bear, and how many years together? How such Marled Land is to be used afterwards, &c? 7. The kinds of Grain or Seed, usual in England, being supposed to be either Wheat, Miscelane, Rye, Barley, Oats, Pease, Beans, Fitches, Buck-wheat, Hemp, Flax, Rape; We desire to know, what sorts of Grains are sown in your Country,and how each of these is prepared for Sowing? Whether by steeping, and in what kind of Liquor? Or by mixing it,and with what? 8. There being many sorts of Wheat, as the White or Red Lammas, the bearded Kentish Wheat, the gray Wheat, the red or gray Pollard, the Ducks-bill Wheat, the red-earedbearded Wheat,&c. And so of Oats, as the common Black, Blue, Naked, Bearded in North-males: and the like of Barley, Pease, Beans, &c. The Enquiry is, which of these grow in your Country, and in what Soyl; and which of them thrive best there; and whether each of them require a peculiar Tillage; and how they differ in goodness? 9. What are the chief particulars observable in the choice of Seed corn, and all kinds of Grain; and what kinds of Grain are most proper to succeed one another? 10. What Quantity of each kind is sown upon the StatuteAcre? And in what season of the Moon and year 'tis sowed? 11. With what it struments they do Harrow,Clod and Rowl, and at what seasons? 12.How much an Acre of goodCorn,well ordered,generally useth to yield,in very good,in less good,and in the worst years? 13. Some of the common Accidents and Diseases befalling Corn in the growth of it,being Meldew,Blasting, Smut; what are conceived to be the Causes thereof, &what the Remedies? 14. There being other Annoyances, the growing Corn is exposed to, as Weeds, Worms, Flies, Birds, Mice, Moles, &c. how they are remedied? 15. Upon what occasions they use to cut the young Corn in the Blade,or to feed it; and what are the benefits thereof? 16. VVhat are the seasons and waies of Reaping and Ordering each sort of Grain, before it be carried off the Ground? 17. VVhat (94) 17. VVhat are the several waies of preserving Grain in the Straw, within and without doors,from all kind of Annoyance, as Mice, Heating,Rain,&c? 18. VVhat are the waies of separating the several sorts of Grain from the Straw, and of dressing them? 19. VVhat are the waies of preserving any stores of separated Grain, from the Annoyances they are obnoxious to? 2. For Meadows. 1. How the above-mentioned sorts of Soyl are prepared, when they are used for Pasture or Meadow? 2. The common Annoyances of these Pasture or Meadow Grounds being supposed to be, either Weeds, Moss, Sourgrass,Heath, Fern, Bushes, Bryars, Brambles, Broom, Rushes, Sedges, Gorse or Furzes; what are the Remedies thereof? 3. VVhat are the best waies of Drayning Marshes, Boggs, Fenns,&c? 4. VVhat are the several kinds of Grass, and which are counted the best? 5. VVhat are the chief circumstances observable in the Cutting of Grass; and what in the making and preserving of Hay? 6. VVhat kind of Grass is fittest to be preserved for winter-feeding? And what Grass is best for Sheep, for Cows, Oxen,Horses, Goats, &c. 