[786] XCIV. Part of a Letter from Cheney Hart, M. D. to William Watson, F. R. S. giving some Account of the Effects of Electricity in the County Hospital at Shrewsbury. Salop, Nov. 5, 1754. WE have tried the effects of electricity in many different cases, though I cannot say, that we have had much success in its use, except in the case of one woman, whose left arm had been paralytic some years, and remained so, notwithstanding all the endeavours used to remedy it, so as to be ever absolutely motionless, and senseless of heat, cold, or pain. This patient had her arm electrised frequently, and the sparks drawn from it, and the greatest blows given to it for many days successively, whereby in about eight or nine days time her arm grew sensible of pain and warmth, &c. and she had some little motion of her fingers, being able to grasp any thing with her arm down, or before her; but she could not lift it up to her head any better. This encouraged us to continue the electrising three weeks or a month longer; in which time she had got some little strength in her arm, could open and shut her fingers, and lift it half-way to her head: but the pain she had from the electrising, and the fear that increased continually of new shocks, made her obstinately to resist using it any longer; and she chose, she said, rather to remain paralyaic than undergo such operations any more: for which reasons she was discharged out of the infirmary, with Read Nov. 14, 1754. [787] with such little relief as is above-mentioned, and I never have heard more of her. I wish indeed she had tried it a while longer, as it bid so fair to do her service; and this was the only case, which gave us any reasonable hopes from its use. Another young girl, about sixteen, whose right arm was paralytic, on being electrised the second time, became universally paralytic, and remained so about a fortnight; when the increased palsy was removed indeed by the medicines, which here case indicated; but the first diseased arm remained as before. I should have mentioned too, that this arm was greatly wasted, in comparison of the other. However, notwithstanding the former bad accident, I had a mind to try the electricity on her again, which we renewed, and after about three or four days use, she became the second time universally paralytic, and even lost her voice and tongue, and with difficulty could swallow: this confirmed me in my opinion, that the electric shocks had occasioned these symptoms. We therefore omitted it, and the girl, though she grew better of her additional palsy (for so I call it), remained as bad as before of her first; and, after about four months repeated course of medicines of different kinds on her, she was discharged incurable, and still remains as bad as ever. These, Sir, are the only two cases worth noticing, that have occurred to me, wherein it can be said to have produced any remarkable effects at all: for on numbers of others, that have experienced it, I have not observed any thing happen, except that, when the affected palsied limb is touched with the electrical conductor, a convulsive motion is produced imme5 G 2 diately; [788] diately; but this is over very soon, and they have all remained as motionless and bad as before. And the second case above-mentioned has made us here very cautious in proceeding to its use in many patients, for fear of bringing on worse symptoms than they had before, by it. XCV. 