LXXIX. The Case of a Piece of Bone, together with a Stone in the Bladder,successfully extracted by Mr. Joseph Warner, F. R. S. and Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. T H E stone in the bladder is a disease so common to both sexes, and the symptoms, and circumstances attending it are in general so well known, and so much alike, as to render few cases of this kind worthy of communication. But as the following is attended with a singular, and perhaps unparallel'd circumstance, I make bold humbly to offer to your consideration a short account of the following fact ~ O o o 2 Elizabeth Read May 28, 1752. [476] Elizabeth England, aged 48 (in all other respects an healthy woman) had been afflicted with the symptoms of the stone in the bladder for about two years, for which she put herself under my care. After having prepared her in the usual manner, I proceeded to the operation; but in a method somewhat different from that generally practised, which is effected merely by a forcible dilatation, and consequent laceration, of the urethra. For having almost always observed an incontinence of urine, in consequence of this method of operating, for this reason, and from the success which I had some time ago met with, in an extraordinary case communicated to this Society, I departed from the usual method of operating, and cut the urethra obliquely upwards on the right side, to about half its length; which I easily did, by introducing a small knife into the groove of the staff, and found very little force requisite to the introduction of the necessary instruments into the bladder, and in the extraction of the stone, &c. Upon laying hold of the stone, it broke; so that only a part of it, about the size of a pigeon's egg, was extracted, upon the first introduction of the forceps. Upon introducing the forceps a second time, I extracted a ragged and irregular piece of bone, weighing 16 grains, which is now submitted to your inspection. Before it was cleansed, its cavities appear'd fill'd and cover'd with a mixture of hairy and stony particles; from whence I conjecture, that it probably was the nucleus of the stone. Nothing remarkable occurr'd during the cure, but that the patient, ever since the second day after the [477] the operation; has been capable of retaining her urine, and is now perfectly well. The operation was performed on the 7th instant. Hatton Garden, May 28, 1752. 