[ 211 ] XV. Supplement to a Paper " On the Nervous Ganglia of the Uterus." BY ROBERT LEE, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, London. Received June 14,-Read June 19, 1845. IN the First Part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1841, I have described and represented in two engravings the nervous ganglia, situated on the sides of the neck of the uterus, in which the great sympathetic and third sacral nerves unite, and from which branches proceed to the vagina, bladder, rectum, ard the whole of the lower part of the uterus. In an Appendix to that paper, published in the Second Part Of the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, there is contained a further account of the nervous structures situated on the fundus and body of the uterus, and an engraving in which the appearances they present at the full period of gestation have been accurately delineated. From the form, colour, vascularity, and general distribution of these structures, and from their branches actually coalescing, and being continuous with those of the great sympathetic and spinal nerves, I inferred that they were true nervous ganglionic plexuses, and formed the nervous system of the uterus enlarged during pregnancy. In a gravid uterus at the full period I have recently, and with still mnore care, traced the great sympathetic and spinal nerves into the two hypogastric ganglia, and from thence over both. 'sides of the uterus to the fundus. A lens which magnified six diameters was employed in this dissection, which enabled me with unerring certainty to distinguish and to separate the nervous filaments front the fine cellular membrane by which they are so closely surrounded, and from all the other contiguous structures. In this minute dissection, many of the details of the nervous system of the uterus are more perfectly shown than in any previous dissection made by me, and they confirm, in the most complete manner, the accuracy of all that is contained in my previous communications on this subject to the Royal Society. To this preparation I can now appeal, as affording a perfect demonstration of the truth of all my statements respecting the ganglia and other nervous structures of the uterus. 