XXIV. A Catalogue of Sanscrita Manuscripts presented to the Royal Society by Sir William and Lady Jones. ByCharles Wilkins, Esq. F. IR. S. Read June n8, 1798. 1. a. NIAHA'-BHA'RATAAX A poem in eighteen books, exclusive of the part called Ragbuvansa; the whole attributed to Crisbna Dwaipdyana VJydsa; with copious notes by Nila-canta. This stupendous work, when perfect, contains upwards of one hundred thousand metrical verses. The main subject is the history of the race of Blbdrata, one of the ancient kings of India, from whom that country is said to have derived the name of Bbdirata-varsha; and more particularly that of two of its collateral branches, distinguished by the patronymics, the Cauravas and the Pauravas, (so denominated from two of their ancestors, Curu and Puru,) and of their bloody contentions for the sovereignty of Bhdrata-varsha, the only general name by which the aborigines know the country we call India, and the Arabs and Persians Hind and Hin-dostan. But, besides the main story, a great variety of other subjects is treated of, by way of introduction and episode. The part entitled Ragbu-vansa, contains a distinct history of the race of Crisdna. The Mabd-bhdrata is so very popular throughout the East, that it has been translated into most of its numerous dialects ; and there is an abridgment of it in the Per* The Sanscrita words are spelt according to the method practised by Sir WI L"LIAM JoxsEs, in his works. Mr. WILKINS'S Catalogue, &c. sian language, several copies of which are to be found in our public libraries. The Gitd, which has appeared in an English dress, forms part of this work; but, as it contains doctrines thought too sublime for the vulgar, it is often left out of the text, as happens to be the case in this copy. Its place is in the 6th book, called BbisJbma-parva. This copy is written in the character which, by way of pre-eminence, is called Devanagari. LY J. i. b. Ditto. Another copy, without notes, written in the character peculiar to the province of Bengal, in which the Brabmans of that country are wont to transcribe all their Sanscrita books. Most of the alphabets of India, though they differ very much in the shape of their letters, agree in their number and powers, and are capable of expressing the Sanscrita, as well as their own particular language. This copy contains the Gitd, in its proper place. LY J. e. a. Rdmayana. The adventures of Rama, a poem in seven books, with notesy in the Devanagari character. There are several works with the same title, but this, written by Vdlnici, is the most esteemed. The subject of all the Jaimyanas is the same: the popular story of Rlma, surnamed Ddsarathi, supposed to be an incard nation of the god Visbnu, and his wonderful exploits to recover his beloved Sita out of the hands of Ravana, the gigantic tyrant of Lanca' Ly J. 2. b. Ditto. Another copy, in the Bengal character,without notes, by V4mid LY J.,z Tv 584, lMr. WILIKINS'S Catalogue 2. c. Ditto. A very fine copy, in the Devanagari character, without notes; but unfortunately not finishei, the writer having -been reduced to a state of insanity, by habitual intoxication. S. W. Jo 3. a. Sri Bhagavata. Anpoem it\ twelve books, attributed to Crishna Dwaipayana Vasa, the rei uted author of the Maha-bha} Sta, and many otber works; with notes by Srid-alra Swdami. EDtan a' ari character. It is to be found in most of the vulgar dialects of India, and in the Persian language. It has also appeared, in a very imperfect and abridged form, in French, under the title of Bagavadam, translated from the Tdmul version. The chief subject of the Bhagavata is the life of Crishna; but, being one of that species of composition which is called Purdna, it necessarily cornprises five subjects, including that wh ch may be considered the chief. The Bralhmans, in their books, define a Purdna to be "a poem treating of five subjects: primary creation, or creation ;of matter in the abstract; secondary creation, or the produc'tion of the subordinate beings, both spiritual and material; "chronological account of their grand periods of time, called "Manwantaras; genealogical rise of families, particularly of "l those who have reigned in India; and, lastly, a history of the "lives of particularfamilies." There are many copies of this work in England. LY Jo A. b. Ditto. Another copy, in the Bengal character, without notes. LYJ. s.c. Ditto. Another copy, on palm leaves, in the Bengcal character. S. W. Jo of Sanscrita Manu scripts. $85 4. Agni Purdna. This work, feigned to have been delivered by Agni, the god of fire, contains a variety of subjects, and seems to have been intended as an epitome of Hindu learning. The poem opens witha short account of the several incarnations of Vishnu; particularly in the persons of Rama, whose exploits are the theme of the Ramayana, and of Crisbna, the material offspring of Vasudeva. Then follows a history of the creation; a tedious dissertation on the worship of the gods, with a description of their images, and directions for constructing and setting them up; a concise description of the earth, and of those places which are esteemed holy, with the forms of worship to be observed at them; a treatise on astronomy, or rather astrology a variety of incantations, charms, and spells, for every occasion; computation of the periods called Manwantaras; a description of the several religious modes of life, called A'srama, and the duties to be performed in each of them respectively; rules for doing penance; feasts and fasts to be observed throughout the year; rules for bestowing charity; a dissertation on the great advantages to be derived from the mystic character OM! with a hymn to Vasishta. The next subject relates to the office and duties of princes; under which head are given rules for knowing the qualities of men and women; for choosing arms and ensigns of royalty; for the choice of precious stones; which are followed by a treatise on the art of war, the greatest part of which is wanting in this copy. The next head treats of worldly transactions between man and man, in buying and selling, borrowing and lending, giving and receiving, &c. &c. and the laws respecting them. Then VMDCCXCVIII. 4 F 86 Mr. WILKINS'S Catalogue follow certain ordinances, according to the Veda, respecting means of security from misfortunes, &c. and for the worship of the gods. Lists of the two races of kings, called the Suryavansa, and the Chandravansa, of the family of, Tadu, and of Crisbna; with a short -history of the twelve years war, described in the Malad-bhdrata. A treatise on the art of healing, as applicable to man and beast, with rules for the management of elephants, hornes, and cows; charms and spells for curing various disorders; and the mode of worshipping certain divinities. On the letters of the Sanscrita alphabet; on the ornaments of speech, as applicable to prose, verse, and the drama; on the mystic signification of the single letters of the Sanscrita alphabet; a grammar of the Sanscrita language, and a short vocabulary. The work is divided into 853 short chapters, and is written in the Bengal character. LY. J. 5. Olica Purdna. A mythological history of the goddess Cdl', in verse, and her adventures under various names and characters; a very curious and entertaining work, including, by way of episode, several beautiful allegories, particularly one founded upon the motions of the moon. There seems to be something wanting at the end. Bengal character, without notes. LY. J. 6. a. Vdyu Purana. This work, attributed to Vdyu the god of wind, contains among a variety of other curious subjects, a very circumstan-c tial detail of the creation of all things celestial and terrestrial, with the genealogy of the first inhabitants; a chronological account of the grand periods called Manwantaras, Calpas, &c.; a description of the earth, as divided into Dwipas, Vars1as, &c., of Sarnscita Manuscripts.?.' with its dimensions in rojanas; and also of the other planets, and fixed stars, and their relative distances, circumferences of orbits, &c. &c. Written in the Devanagari character. Lye J. 6. b. Ditto. A duplicate in the Divandgari character. Ly. i. 7. Vrihan Ndradiya Purdna. This poem, feigned to have been delivered to Sanatcumdra, by the inspired Narada, like others of the Puranas, opens with chaos and creation; but it treats principally of the unity of God, under the title of Maha Vishnu, arguing, that all other gods are but emblems of his works, and the goddesses, of his powers; and that the worshipping of either of the triad, creator, preserver, or destroyer, is, in effect, the worshipping of him. The book concludes with rules for the several tribes, in their spiritual and temporal conduct through life. It is a new copy, in the Bengal character, and, for a new copy, remarkably correct. LY. J. 8. Ndradiya Purana. This poem treats principally on the worship of Vishnu, as practised by Rukmangada, one of their ancient kings. Debvar ndgari character. S. W. J. 9. a. Bhavishydttara Purdna. The second and only remaining part. The subject is confined to religious ceremonies. Devanagari character. S.W. J. 9. b. Ditto. With an Index. Divandgari character. LY. J. io. Gita-govinda. A beautiful and very popular poem, by yayadeva, upon Crishna, and his youthful adventures. Bengal character. Ly. J. u. a. a. Cumara Sambhava. 4 F Mr. WILKINS'S Catalogue An epic poem on the birth of Cdrtica, with notes, by -Calida'sa.-Devanagari character. The notes are separate. LY. J. 1 i. b. Ditto. A duplicate of the text only, in the Bengal character. Ly. J. 12. Naishadha. The adventures of Nala; a poem, with notes. Bengal character. LY. J. 13. Bhatti. A popular, heroic poem, in the Bengal character. LY. J. 14. Raghu-vansa. The race of Crishna, a poem by Calidas, with notes. Devanagari character. LY. J. iA. Vrihatcatha'. Trales in verse, by Somadeva. Devandgari character. Ly. JQ i6. Singhassana. The throne of Raja Vicramaditya; a series of instructive tales, supposed to have been related by thirty-two images which ornamented it. Devandgari character. It has been translated into Persian. LY. J. 17. Catha Saritsagara. A collection of tales by Somade'va. Devandgari character. LY. J. i8. Suca Saptati. The seventy tales of a parrot. Devanagari character. S.W. J. The Persians seem to have borrowed their Tuti-ndma fromthis work. 19. Rasamanjari. The analysis of love, a poem, by Bhdnudatta Misra. De-l vanagari character. LY. J. of Sanscrita Manuscripts 589 20. Sdntisataca. A poem, in the Bengal character. LY. J. 21. Arjuna Gita. A dialogue, something in the manner of the Bhagavat Gitad Devandgari character. LY. J. 22. Hitopadesa. Part of the fables translated by C. W. Written in the Bengal character. LY. J. 23. Brabma Nirupana On, the nature of Brahma'.. Devandgari character. Imperfeet. LY. J. 241. m3g1aduta.< A poem. Bengal character. LY. J. 25. Tantra Sra. On religiLus ceremonies, by Crishnananda Batta'charya' Bengal character. S. W. J. 26. Sabasra Nmam. The thousand names of Vishntu. Devandgari character. S.W.J., 27. Cirdtdarjuntya. A poem, in the Bengal character. LY. J. 28. Siddbanta Sirdmnani. A treatise on geography and astronomy, by Bbdscardchdrya. Devana'gari character. S. W. J., 29. Sangita Nradyana. A treatise on music and dancing. Devandgari character., S. W J., So. Vribadaranyaca. Part of the Yajur Veda, with a gloss, by Sancara. Devandgaricharacter. LY. J. 590 Mr. WILKINS'S Catalogue 31. Niructi, or Nairucta. A gloss on the Vida. Devanagari character. L. J. 92. Aitareya. A discourse on part of the Veda. Devanagari character. LU. J. 33. Chandasi. From the Sdma Jada. De'vanagari character. LY. J. 3.4 Mdgha TW'. A comment on some other work. DeTvandgari character. LY. J. 35. Rajaballabha. De materia Indorum medicd; by Ndrdyanadasd. Bengal character. Ly. J. 36. Hatha Pradizaca. Instructions for the performance of the religious discipline called Yroga; by Swatmarama. Bengal character. LY. J. 37. a. Mdnava Dharma Sdstra. The institutes of Mdanu", translated into English by S. W. J. under the title of "t Institutes of Hindu Law, or the Ordinances "of Menu." Devanagari character. Incorrect. LY. J. ,7. b. Ditto. Duplicate in the Devanagari character. Very incorrect. 38. Mugdha-bodha-ticd. A commentary on the Mugdha-bodha, which is a Sanscrita grammar, peculiar to the province of Bengal, by Durgd Dasa. Bengal character. Four vols. LY. J. 39. Sdraswati Vyacarana. The Sanscrita grammar called Sdraswati. (That part only which treats of the verb.) Devandgari character. U. J. of Sanscrita Manuscrzits. 591 40. Sdrdvali. A grammar of the Sanscrita language. Incomplete. Bengal character. S. W. J. 4. Siddhanta Caumudi. A grammar of the Sanscrita language, by Panini, Cdtyayana, and Patanjali ; with a duplicate of the first part, as far as compounds. Devanagari character. Ly. J. 42. a. Amara Cdsa. A vocabulary of the Sanscrita language, with -a grammatical comment. Not perfect. Devandgari character. Ly. J. 42. b. Ditto. The botanical chapter only, with a comment. Devanagari character. L', J. 42. c. Ditto. The whole complete. Bengal character. S. W. 3. 43. Mdini Cdsa. A dictionary of the Sanscrita language. Devanagari char racter. L. J. 44. Viswapracasa Cdsa., A dictionary of the Sanscrita language; by Maheswara. Devanagari character. Ly. 1.. 45. Sabda Sandazrbha Sindu. A dictionary of the Sanscrita language; by Cdsindtba Sarman. It appears from the introduction, that it was compiled expressly for the use of S.W. J. The learned author is, at present, head professor in the newly-established college at. Varanasi. Devandgari character. Two vols. folio. Ly. J. 46. VJnisan/dra-. A. drama, Sanscrita and Pracrita, in the Bengal character. Ly.Jo, 5952 Mr. WILKINs'S Catalogue 47. Maba Ndtaca. A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita, in the Bengal character. LY. J. 48. Sacuntalc. A drama, Sanscrita and Pracrita in the Bengal character. This is the beautiful play which was translated into English by S. W.J. but not the copy he used for that purpose. LY', J. 49. Mdlati and %Mcdhava. A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita, in the Bengal character. LYJ. 5o. Hdsydrnava. A farce, Sanscrita and Prdcri'ta, 'in the Bengal character, LY. J. 51. Cautuca Sarvaswam. A farce, Sanscrita and Prdcrita, in the Bengal character. Lv. J, q50. Chandrdbbishbca. A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita. Bengal character. L., J. 53. Ratnadvali. A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita. Bengal character. LY. J3 541. Vicramcrvasi'. tA dlrama ria A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita. Bengal character. Ly. J. $. Manavicagnimitra. A drama, Sanscrita and Prdcrita, Bengal character, LY. 3 of Sanscrita Manusripts. 93 56. A catalogue of Sanserita books, on various subjects. Devanagari character. 17. J. N. B. Those articles in the above catalogue, marked S.W. J. were presented by Sir WILLIAM. JONES; and those marked Ly. J. by Lady JONES. A catalogue of the Persian and Arabic MSS presented by them, will be given in a future volume. 