Part of a Letter from the same Learned and Ingenious Gentleman, upon the same Subject, to Dr. Jurin, R. S. Secret. THE Business of my Profession obliging me to go into the Country, as soon as I had the Favour of yours of Jan. 22. prevented my returning an Answer sooner to the Queries you are pleas'd to propose. I have little to add to what I have already mention'd to Dr. Brady, concerning the manner of communicating the Small Pox, more than that Mr. Owen was about fifteen Years of Age, when he made the Experiment on himself, and that he questionless had the genuine Small Pox; the Signs of'em on his Face, 2 and (265) and the Mark on his Hand, where he apply'd the Matter, being still so very visible, as to put that matter beyond Dispute. The Physician, who then attended him, is dead. Tho' I can't pretend to remember how many inform'd me of their procuring the Distemper in this manner; yet I can aver, that within the compass of twenty Years last past, I have been so often assured of the Truth of it, not by Children, but grown Persons of undoubted Credit, that I am entirely satisfied it has been an immemorial Custom in these Parts; and not only practised by Boys when at School, but also by many others of both Sexes more advanced in Years, and consequently capable of distinguishing the Small Pox from other Distempers. There are now living, in this Town and Neighbourhood, five or six Persons, who undoubtedly had that Distemper after taking the foresaid Method to infect themselves; one of whom, a young Woman aged 23, told me (since I received your Letter) that, about 8 or 9 Years ago, in order to infect herself, she held twenty pocky Scabs (taken from one towards the latter end of the Distemper) in the hollow of her Hand, a considerable time; that about ten or twelve Days afterwards she sicken'd, and had upwards of thirty large Pustules in her Face, and other Parts; and that she has since freely conversed with such as have had the Small Pox on them. To make it appear that Inoculation is a sufficient Preservative against receiving the Small Pox a second time; about six Weeks ago, I caused my two Boys, who had been inoculated this last Summer, not only to see, but even to handle a Child, dying of a most malignant sort of Small Pox; who notwithstanding, I thank God, continue in perfect Health. Upon (266) Upon a very exact Inquiry I find, that out of 227, who have had the Small Pox in the natural way, in this Town and a neighbouring Parish, since the Beginning of June last, 52 have died. Haverford West, Feb. 2. 1722/3. Perrot Williams. P O S T S C R I P T. Just as I was concluding my Letter, being sent for by a Gentleman about six Miles off, (where I saw two very melancholy Instances of the Severity of the confluent Small Pox) he took an occasion to inform me, that a near Neighbour of his caus'd his Son, about ten Years of Age, near three Weeks ago, to buy (as he term'd it) the Small Pox, after the manner I described in my first Letter to Dr. Brady. Carefully viewing the Boy, I found him recovering from the distinct Kind of that Distemper, having not had, as I could perceive, above 40 pretty large Pustules, which were then drying off. Had I not been scanted in Time, I question not but I should have been able to have given a great many Instances of the like Nature; but the hurry I have been continually in, ever since I receiv'd yours, must be my Apology, for that Deficiency, as well as the Uncorrectness of this Letter. IX. A 