Some Inquiries Concerning the Salt-Springs and the Way of Saltmaking at Nantwich in Cheshire; Answer'd by the Learned and Observing William Jackson Dr. of Physick. 1. WHat is the depth of the Salt-Springs? The depths are various, in some places not above 3. or 4. yards. In our Town of Nantwich, the Pitt is full 7. yards from the (1061) the footing about the Pitt; which is guessed to be the natural height of the Ground, though the Bank be 6. foot higher, accidentally raised by rubbish of long making Salt, or Walling, as they call it, In other places the Springs lye much shallower; for in two places within our Township the Springs break up so in the Meadows, as to frett away not only the grass, but part of the earth, which lyes like a breach,at least halfe a foot or more lower than the turfe of the Meadow, and hath a Salt liquor, ousing, as it were, out of the mudd, but very gently. 2. What kind of Country 'tis thereabout, where the Springs are, whither Hilly & c.; And what Plants grow near them? Our Country is generally a low ground, witness the name given to it (the Vale Royal of England;) yet 'tis very full of Collicular Eminencies, and various Risings, to distinguish it from being all Meadow. We have also a peculiar sort of ground in this County and some adjacent parts, which we call Mosses; and they are a kind of Moorish boggy ground, very stringy, and fatt: which serveth us very well for Turfs, cutt out like great Bricks and dried in the Sun. And this kind of ground is so much here, that there are few Townships but they have their particular Mosses. In these is found much of that Wood we call Firr-wood, which serves the Country-people for Candles, Fewel, and sometimes for small Timber-vses; and this the Vulgar concludes to have layn there since the Flood. But generally these Mosses seem to be places undermined by some Subterraneous streams; or by the diffolution of some matter, that made them equal with the rest of the ground formerly: In which conjecture I am confirmed by this, That near a place of My Lord Cholmondeley's, called Bilkely, about 9. or 10. years since, not far from one of these Mosses, without any Earth-quake, fell in, a piece of ground about 30. yards over, with an huge noise, and great Oakes growing on it fell with it together; which hung first with part of their heads out, afterwards suddenly sunck down into the grounds, so as to become invisible: Out of which Pitt they drew Brine with a pitcher tyed to a cart-rope, but could then find no bottom with the ropes they had there: Since, the Pitt is filled up with water, and now doth not taste Salt, but a very little brackish, a very small rindlet passing through it. The H h h h h 2 nearest (1062) nearest Salt-springs to this place are at Dartwich about 3. miles from it, belonging to the present Lord Keeper, and My Lord Cholmondeley. Some Hills we have, but no bigg ones, near our Springs; which generally lye all along the River Weeuer, as Hanktllow, Hatherton, Ofterson, Bartherton, Nantwich, Weever, Leftwich, Northwich; yet there is an appearance of the same Veine at Midlewich nearer the River Dane, than Weever; which notwithstanding seems not to be out of the Line of the Weverish streame; and these lye all near Brooks, and in Medowish grounds. As to Plants, I could observe no singularity at all; for, where the Salt reaches the surface, it frets away all (as I said before,) and upon the Turfe near the old decayed Pitts grows the very same, that doth in the remotest place of the Meadow; only Iobserve, that, where the Turff was fretted away, Rushes maintain'd their station longest; yet they grow also in other moist grounds, so that they are no friends to the Salt-springs, but I perceive, they resist them best. 3. Whether there be any Hot-springs near the Salt-ones? And Whether the Water of the Salt-springs be hotter or cooler, than other Spring-water? The Water of the Salt-springs here is very cold at the bottom of the Pitt, insomuch that when the Briners sometimes goe about to cleanse the Pitt, they cannot abide in, above half an hour, and in that time they drink much Strong water. There is not any Hot Springs (that I can hear of) nearer us, than Buckston-well, which is about 30. miles distant near DarbyPeak Hills. 4. Whether they find any Shells about those Springs, and what kind of Earth it is? I cannot hear of any Shells digged up, though of late several new Brine-springs have been both sought, and found by sinking deep Pitts; yet none knows of any Shels, but rather a blackish Slutch mixt with the Sand, which infects the whole Spring (like the Scuttle-fish) black, when 'tis stirr'd; else the water runs very clear. 5. How strong the Water is of Salt? Springs are rich or poore in a double sence; for a Spring may be rich in Salt, but poor in the quantity (1063) quantity of Brine it affords Thus they have a rich Brine in their chief Pit at Midle-wich, which yields a full fourth part of Salt, like the rich Burgundian Springs, mentioned in Kircher's Mundus Subterraneus; yet this is so thrifty of its Brine, that the Inhabitants are limited to their proportions out of it, and their quantity is supply'd out of Pitts that afford a weaker Brine. Our Pitt at Nantwich yields but a sixth part; but then 'tis so plentiful a Spring, that, whereas they seldome Wall, that is, make Salt, in above 6. Houses at a time, and there are or should be about 50. Wich-houses in the Town; this Pitt is Judged sufficient to supply them all: And this advantage would accrew over and above, that such quick Use of the Pitt extreamly strengthens the Brine, perhaps to a degree little less than that of Middle-wich Pitt: For,I have tryed it myself, that a quart of Brine, when the Pitt hath been drawn off 3. or 4. days first, to supply 5. or 6. Wich-houses, hath yielded an Ounce and an halfe more of Salt, than at another time, when it hath had a rest of a week or thereabout. But I conclude, that the nearest conjecture, to be made of the strength of this Brine, is, to yield one pound of Salt for six pounds of Brine; as I have severall times tryed without any operation that might obscure the working: By which proportion you see, that six Tuns of Brine yield one tun of Salt: which may be built upon; though in their ordinary way of working they make such variety of Additions, that 'tis impossible for any to be confident of the Product. To adde some particulars, concerning this point; I shall tell you, that March 8. 1668. I weighed two pounds of distilled water in a narrow-mouthed Glass-bott'e, that I might make an exact marke for a quart. This Bottle, being fill'd with our Brine to the very same mark, weigh'd (besides the tare of the Bottle) two pounds three ounces and five drachmes. This was taken up, when the Wich-houses but began to work, so that the Pitt was but little drawn. I fill'd up the Bottle with the same Brine, and it weighed just three drachms more. This Brine, boyled away without any addition or clarification, made five ounces and two drachmes of Salt. Five days after, when the Fire had been drawn all that while for the working of the Wich-houses, vid. March, 13, the same Bottle, fill'd to the Quart-mark afore(1064) aforesaid with Brine then taken up, weighed, beside the Bottle, two pound four ounces and one drachme: the same time the Bottle, filled as in the former Experiment, weighed just two pounds and an halfe, which is three drachms more than the quart mark before; which boyl'd into Salt made six ounces six drachms and two scruples: which exceeds the former quantity of Salt, one ounce four drachms and two scruples, though the Brine exceeded the former in weight but four drachms. By which Try all I confuted also a Tradition, which the Briners have amongst them, viz. That the Brine is strongest at times of the Spring-Tydes, to wit, at the Full and Change of the Moon. For March 8th. aforesaid was only one day past the Full, and then the Brine was weaker than it was the 13th day, when 'twas 6. days past the Full. So that I conclude, there could be no other reason, than that the much drawing makes way for the Saltsprings to come the quicker, and allows the less time for the admission of Fresh Springs. 6. What is the Manner of their Work? or What Time of boyling the Salt-water? Whether they use any peculiar thing to make it granulate, and if so, What that is? Their manner of working is this: They have formerly boyl'd their Brine in 6. Leaden pans with wood-fire; upon which accompt they all claime their interest in the Pitt by the name of so many Six Leads Walling; by which they each know their proportion; but in the memory of many alive they changed their 6. Leads into 4 Iron-pans, something better than a yard square, and about 6. inches deep, still sitting the Content of these to that of the 6. Leads: and of late many have changed the 4 Iron-pans into two greater; and some Wall but in one: But still the Rulers gage it to their Old proportions. Thus much seem'd necessary for understanding the several Operations. They use for their Fewell, Pit-coals, brought out of Staffordshire. These Panns are set upon Iron-barrs, and made in, on all sides, very close (that the flame nor smoak break through) with clay and bricks. They first fill their Pans with Brine out of the Pitt; which coms to them in several Woodden Gutters: then they put into their Panns amongst their Brine a certain mixture, made of about 20. Gallons of Brine, and 2. quarts of Calves Cows and chiefly Sheeps bloud, mixt into a Clarret-Colour: Of this (1065) this mixture they put about 2. quarts into a Pann that holds about 360. quarts of Brine; this bloudy brine, at the first boyling of the Pann, brings up a scumm, which they are careful to take off with a Skimmer, made with a woodden handle thrust through a long square of Wainscot-board, twice as bigg as a good square trencher: this they call a Loot. Here they continue their fire as quick as they can, till halfe the Brine be wasted, and this they call Boyling upon the fresh. But when 'tis halfe boyled away, they fill their Panns again with new Brine out of the Ship, (so they call a great Cistern by their Panns sides, into which their Brine runs through the Woodden Gutters from the Pump, that stands in the Pitt;) then they put into the Pann, 2. quarts of the Mixture following: They take a quart of Whites of Eggs, beat them throughly with as much Brine, till they are well broken; then mix them with 20. Gallons of brine, as before was done with the Bloud; and thus that which they call the Whites is made. As soon as this is in, they boyle sharply, till the second Scum arise; then they scum it off as before, and boyle very gently till it Corne; to procure which, when part of the Brine is wasted, they put into each Pann of the Content aforesaid about a quarter of a pint of the best and strongest Ale they can gett: this makes a momentany Ebullition, which is soon over, and then they abate their fires, yet not so but that they keep it boyling all over, though gently; for the Workmen say, that if they boyle fast here, (which they call Boyling on the Leach, because they usually all this time lade in their Leach-brine, which is such Brine, as runs from their salt, when 'tis taken up before it hardens) if I say, they boyle fast here,it wasts their Salt. After all their Leach-Brine is in, they boyle gently, till a kind of Scum come on it like a thin Jce; which is the first appearance of the Salt: then that sinks, and the Brine every where gathers into Cornes at the bottom to it, which they gently rake together with their Loots: I say, gently; for much stirring breakes the Corne. So they continue, till there is but very little brine left in the Pann; then with their Loots they take it up the Brine dropping from it and throw it into their Barrows, which are Cases made with flat cleft wickers, in the shape almost of a Sugar-loaf, the bottom upper-most. When the Barrow is full, they let it stand so for an hour and an halfe in the Trough, where (1066) where it drains out all the Leach-brine abovesaid, then they re move it into their Hot-house behind their Works; made there by two Tunnels under their Panns, carried back for that purpose. The Leach-brine, that runs from the Barrows, they put into the next Boyling,for 'tis to their advantage, being salt melted, and wanting only hardning. This work is persorm'd in 2. hours in the smaller panns, which are shallower, and generally boyle their brine more away; wherefore their Salt will last better, though it does not granulate so well, because, when the Brine is wasted, the fire and stirring breaks the Cornes. But this Salt weighs heavier, and melts not so soon; and therefore is bought by them, that carry it farr. But in the greater Panns, which are usually deeper, they are above halfe an hour longer in boyling; but, because they take their Salt out of their Brine, and only harden it in their Hot-house, 'tis apter to melt away in a moist Air: Yet of this sort of Salt the bigger the grain is, the longer it endures; and generally this is the better granulated and the clearer, though the other be the whiter. Vpon which I rather think, 'tis the taking of the salt out of the Brine before it be wasted, that causes the granulating of it, than the Ale to which the Workmen impute it. This kind measures profitably well; therefore much bought by them that buy to sell again. They never cover their Panns at all, during the whole time of Boyling. They have their Houses like Barns open up to the thatch with a Cover-hole or two, to vent the steam of the panns. Possibly Tiles may do better, but no body is yet so curious as to try, but the steam is such, that I am confident, no plaister will stick, and boards will warp, and their nailes will rust so, as quickly to fret in pieces. 7. Whether the Salt, made of these Springs be more or less apt to dissolve in the Air, then other Salt? And whether it be as good to powder Beef or other Flesh with, as French Salt? This Question I cannot well answer, in regard that French Salt coms not to us, to compare the efficacy of the one with the other experimentally; but this I can assure for our Salt, that with it both Beef and Bacon is very well preserv'd sweet and good a whole year together; and I do apprehend this Salt to be rather more searching than French Salt (1067) Salt, because I have often observed, that meat kept with this Salt shall be more fiery Salt to the midst of it, than I have observed, when I have eaten powder'd meat on Ship-board, which was probably done with French Salt, I then being on the Southside of England, and in a Dutch Vessel. 'Tis certain, Cheshire sends yearly much Bacon to London, which never yet had any mark of infamy set upon it; and hanged Beef(which others call Martin-mass-Beef) is as good and as frequent in Cheshire, as in any place; so that I conclude, that this Salt is fully effectual for any Use, and as good as any other; and therefore hope, 'twill be prosecuted in the use, that so the Trade of our own Commodities may rather be advanced, than of forraign, especially this of Salt; which if it shall please the R. Society to promote, they will lay an obligation on all our Country never to be forgotten. Mean time, if I have related here any thing obscurely or imperfectly, I am ready to answer any new Queries, that shall arise out of this obscurity, or give larger satisfaction to any of the Old, that shall be thought hereby not sufficiently explained. Explication of the Figures belonging to the Accompt of Saltmaking. Fig. 1. This is the Model of an Iron-pann of that proportion, when Four are used in one house. a a. The Eares to hang the Pann by upon the Brick work. b. The several junctures of the Iron plates riveted. Fig. 4. C C. The breadth and length of the Pann near 4. foot. C d. The depth of the sides of the Pann, about 6. inches. Fig. 2. a a. The Hot-house between the Wall and the Chimney. Leach or Leach-brine, b b. The two Tunnels. C C. The Chimney-back, into which the two Tunnels conveigh the smoake. d d d. d. The four Panns. E. The partition-wall between the Panns and the Hot-house. f. The Fire-places. g g. The Ash-holes. h. The Hearth below. ii. The descent to the Hearth. Fig. 3. The Pack with his stale, with which they reach brine out of their Ship to fill their Panns withall. a b. Several positions of their Loots, with which they skim,and gather their Salt. Fig. 5a.a. Two Barrows newly filled with Salt; set into the Leach-trough to dripp out the b b, The Salt heaped above the Barrows and patted down hard. C. The Leach trough. Fig. 6. A gutter, which they lay over from one Pann to another, to poure the Brine into the farthest panns. I ii An Fig -IFor y; Salt-work Fig -IVa a b Fig -Vb b b Fig. IIIa a a d C ab ab C C Fig -IIFig -VIE C d d a a C b f a a d d i b f a a h 