~ Fig. 1. p. 146. 4 3/4 Inches Fig. 2. p. 155. B A A 2 3 1 A Section thro' the middle. 14 Inches E C C C Fig. 4. a p. 169. D D A Fig. 3. A A ~ b p. 167. E X S C B 6 ~ Inches 1 Fig. 5. 3 B p. 170. 4 F 2 Philos. Trans. No. 479. TAB. II. 4 5 C F Very Dry. Dry. Dryer. Dryisb. Middle State B ~ G D Moistisb. Moister. Moist. ~ Wet. E H X R B 1 3 C E 4 2 XIII. Part of a Letter from Mr. Wm. Arderon, F. R. S. to Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. concerning an Improvement of the WeatherCord. S I R, THE Weather-Cord is an Hygrometer of a very ancient Invention, and, if properly constructed, may be made use of with very good Success, to shew the various Alterations of the Atmosphere, in respect to Moisture and Dryness; but, as commonly made, it never rises or falls sufficiently to point out such minute Changes as the Curious would be desirous to know. A Sense of this Defect set me upon endeavouring to find out some Method of removing it; and how far I have succeeded, will best appear upon casting your Eye upon the Drawings, TAB. II. Fig. 4. and Fig. 5. Read April 24. 1746. In the first of these Hygrometers which I made, as in Fig. 1. I only fixed the End of the Index A B fast to the Silk C E at A, leaving it lying loose upon the Point D; and in this manner the other End of the Index would nearly describe the Arch FGH: But then I soon perceived, that the Centre of Motion, Y 2 whereon [170] whereon the Index turned, was changed whenever it moved ever so little; and, consequently, that the Arch struck by the End B must be irregular. On considering this, I toothed two Pieces of Brass, as 1, 2, and 3, 4 (See Fig. 5.) to fit each other so exactly, that, upon the least Motion of the one, the other would move; then, fixing the Index upon the Centre C, its Motions were rendered much more regular. I placed likewise a little Collar of Brass at B, upon the Cord S R, and to that Collar tied the Silk, which gave Motion to the Index, that the Cord S R might twist and untwist without any Impediment. If there is no Weight placed at Bottom, as in Fig. 4 X the Piece of Brass 1, 2 must be so heavy as to keep the Cord S B R at a convenient Tightness, and also to counterbalance the End of the Index C E, provided it be heavier than the other. The Length of the Cord S B R, its Thickness, and the Manner of preparing it, are already described in so many Books which treat of Hygroscopes, that to mention them would seem unnecessary; and I shall only add, that I am Yours, &c. Wm. Arderon. Norwich, Dec. 21, 1745. XIV. 