[522] VII. Part of a Letter from the Revd Mr. Thomas Lord, to William Folkes, Esq; F. R. S. concerning some Worms whose Parts live after they have been cut asunder. A F T E R I had, without Success, made several repeated Searches for the Polypus, in several Fishponds, and a small Stream in my Parish, I applied myself to collect the different Insects of various Sorts I had there met with, and which were of more than 30 Kinds, all which I put together; but some of them voraciously seized upon others, and devoured them, so that in a Day's time I had hardly any left, but a few of one Sort, which rolled themselves up like Millepedes, or Hog-lice, but were, upon the Whole, more of the Leech Kind, and could extend themselves about an Inch in Length. These I cut asunder, but the Pieces died in about 30 Hours after the Operation. I then recollected, that, in the Account * published by Dr. Mortimer, mention is made of a French Gentleman, that had discovered Water-worms, that would live after cutting: I searched for all I could find fastened either upon rotten Wood, Leaves, Straws, or Stones, that I took out from the Bottom of the Water, and cut of every Sort asunder; but none lived above 48 Hours, except these I here send you. In one Glass are Four Pieces that now seem to be complete Worms, and the same as the Two in the other Phial: These Four Pieces, 12 Days since, were Two Worms: I cut them asunder with my * See these Transactions, No 467. Penknife, Read June 9. 1743. [523] Penknife, and found that each Part, from the First, continued vigorous and strong; and I could, by my naked Eye only, see that in Three Days the Ends where the Wounds were given, were grown sharper, and that they moved along like the intire Worms. I am, &c. Wheltham in Suff. Thomas Lord. June 1. 1743. The Two intire Worms here mentioned to have been contained in one of the Phials sent up by Mr. Lord, were each cut presently after into Two Pieces, which soon after completed themselves, grew longer, and were several Weeks after in a vigorous and thriving Condition. 