-XIII Observations on the best Methods of producing artifcia Cold. By Mr. Richard Walker. Communicated by Martin Wall, M. D. F. R. S. Read May 14, 1795. 11AVING already investigated the means of producing artificial cold, and at the conclusion of my last paper (on the cons gelation of quicksilver) dismissed that part of the subject the best method of making use of those means naturally becomes a desideratum; to that therefore I have lately given my attention, and flatter myself that the following observations may be considered as an useful appendix to my former papers. The freezing point of quicksilver being now as determined a point on the scale of a thermometer, viz. 390, as the freezing point of water ; and as this metal, exhibited in its solid state, affords an interesting as well as curious phbenomenon; I shall apply what I have to say principally to that object. Frequent occasions having occurred to me of observing the superiority of snow, in experiments of this kind, to salts, even in their fittest state, that is, fresh crystallized, and reduced to very fine powder, I resolved upon adopting a kind of artificial snow. The first method which naturally presented itself, was by condensing steam into hoar-frost; this answered the purpose, as might be expected, exceedingly well but the difficulty and Mr. WALKERS Observations, &c. 271 expence of materials in collecting a sufficient quantity, determined me to relinquish this mode for another, by which I can easily and expeditiously procure ice in the fittest form for exa periments of this kind; the method I mean, ismby first freezing water in a tube, and afterwards grinding it into very fine powder. Thus possessed of the power of making ice and afterwards reducing it to a kind of snow, the congekition of quicksilver becomes a very easy and certain process; for by the use of a very simple apparatus (Tab. XXIII. fig. t.) quicksilver may be frozen perfectly solid, in a few minutes, whereever the temperature of the air does not exceed 85, thus one ounce of nitrous acid is to be poured into the tube b of the vessel observing not to 6wet the side of the tube above with it; a circular piece of writing paper of a proper size is to be placed over the acid, resting upon the shoulder of the tube, and the paper brushed over with some melted white wax; thus prepared, the vessel is to be inverted, and filled with a mixture of diluted nitrous acid, phosphorated soda, and nitrous ammoniac, in proper proportions for this *temperature, and tied over securely, first with waxed paper,: and upon that a wet bladder. The vessel being then turned upright, and placed in a shallow vessel, viz. a saucer or plate, an ounce and a half of rain or distilled water is to be poured into the tube, which is to be covered with a-stopper or cork, and, as soon as frozen solid, ground to very fine powder, an assistant holding it firmly and steadily the while; observing occasionally to work the instrument in different directions u-p and down, that no lumps * I have, by a very accurate preparation of this mixture, sunk a thermometer from -85? (temperature of the vessel and materials) to + zO. Nn 2 272 Mr.WALKER'S Observations on tJbe nay be formed. When the whole of the ice is thus reduced to. powder, and. the lumps, if any, broken, the frigorific mixture is to. be let out quickly, by cutting or untying the string, and removing the bladder, &c. which confines it; a communication made, by forcing a rod of glass or, wood through the partition; and the whole mixed expeditiously. together. In this climate, a mixture much less expensive will be suffli cient, viz, that composed of diluted .nitrous f acid, GLAUBER'S salt, sal ammoniac and nitre; a mixture of this kind sinking a. thermometer in the warmest weather to near o0. At the temperature of 700, or a little higher, the quantity of diluted nitrous acid may be about one-fourth less than is mentioned in the Table, forg l' -These methods are the most expeditious, and attended with the least trouble ; but as ice may be used with equal certainty, and with much less expence, I shall give a particular detail of an experiment: made with the; use of it, first-mentioning a preparatory exp~erimnent, to which I was immediately led by the recollection that Sir CHARLES BLAGDEN, in his paper "on the "point of congelation, (Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXVIII.) had found that common sal ammoniac and common salt, mixed with snow, produced a cold of120, whereas the latter used alone with snow produces only?. I used a mixed powder of equal parts of common sal ammoniac, and nitre with the common salt, by which the thermometer sunk toi80; and when I used nitrous ammoniac with common salt, to this cold I could not increase by the addition of any other salts, Qnor could I equal it by any other combination of salts: those I tried were GLAUBER'S salt, salt of tartar, soda, and sal catharticus amarus; by several trials I found the. best proportiQfls best Methods ofproduczng artoifiial Cold.. 273 to be, snow or pounded ice twelve parts, common salt five parts, and of nitrous ammoniac, or a powder of equal parts sal ammoniac and nitre mixed five parts or one-third of common salt, when I used that alone, with snow or pounded ice. My apparatus then (Dec. 28th last) consisted of two vessels (fig. 3. and 4); an instrument, (fig. 6.) to grind or rather scrape the ice to powder; a kind of spatula (I use a marrows spoon)' to stir the powder occasionally; a thermometer (fig. 8.); and a small thermometer glass with the bulb three-fourths full of quicksilver (fig. 7.). I filled the vessel, fig. 3, holding when inverted two pints stratum super stratum, with pounded ice, common salt, and a powder consisting of equal parts sal ammoniac and nitre mixed together; by first putting in six ounces of pounded ice, then two ounces and a half of common salt, and, after stirring these well together, two ounces and a half of the mixed salts, mixing the whole well together-; this was repeated in the same manner until the vessel was quite full; it was then tied over securely with a wet bladder, turned upright, and one ounce and a half of rain water poured into the tube through a funnel, the tube covered with a cork, and the vessel left undisturbed till the water was frozen perfectly solid. The instrument for grinding it was then put in to acquire cold, whilst the vessel, fig. 4, holding a pint, was filled in, the same manner, with the same proportions of materials, a bladder tied over it, set upright, and one ounce of fuming nitrous acid poured in to be cooled. The ice was then ground to powder, and when finished, the nitrous acid being found to have acquired a sufficient degree of cold, viz. --13, the frigorific mixture of ice and salts was let out of the vessel which contained the nitrous acid; and the powdered ice (still sur274 Mr. WALKER' SObservatzons ont the rounded by its frigorific mixture) added to the acid as quick as possible; when the thermometer sunk to near -4 o' and the Mixture soon froze the quicksilver in the glass bulb.i In this experiment, i8 minutes were required to freeze the water perfectly solid; and 15 to reduce the ice, by moderate labour, to very fine powder. The experiment was over inr55 minutes; and the temperature of the preparatory cooling mixture then found to be --no. I had a spirit thermometer by me, but a mercurial thermometer being much more sensible, and consequently descending much quicker, I prefer it in experiments made mer'ely to freeze quicksilver; knowing from experience how the congelation is goilng on, from the irregular descent of the mercury when a few degrees below its freezing. point; and from having usually found that the quicksilver in the thermometer glass begins to freeze, as soon as the mercurial thermometer reaches40o Whenever I have occasion to use ice in summer for this purr pose, Iusually pound together first some -ice and salt in a stone mortar, about two parts of the former to one of the latter; throw this away, and wipe the' pestle and mortar perfectly dry; the mortar being thus cooled, the ice may afterwards be pounded small without melting. And as a mixture made of snow, or ice in powder, and salts, does not give out its greatest cold till it is become partially liquid, by the action of the ice and salts on each other; it is necessary that the whole be stirred well together, till it is become of an uniformly moist pulpy consistence, especially since in becoming liquid the mixture shrinks so much, that if this be not attended to the vessel will not be near full, and consebest Methods of produc'ing artijficial Cold. 27.5 .quently the upper part of the tube not surroun &, as it ought to be, by the frigorific mixture. The dissolution of the ice and salts may, if required, be hastened by adding occasionally a little water -but then the cold produced will be less intense and not so durable. That particular form of the vessel, in which the ice is made and reduced to powder, is chosen, because it subjects the powdered ice in the tube to the constant action of the freezing mixture, without which it would be less fit, particularly in warm weatler, for the intended use, and because in it the ice is not liable to be impregnated with the salts of the mix;ture, by which it vo ild be utterly spoiled: and that for cooling the nitrous acid, and making the second mixture in, because it is steady, and is besides insulated as it were from the external warm air, and surrounded in its stead by an atmosphere much colder. It is scarcely necessary to add, -that when snow wvhich has never thawed can be procured, it may be cooled in this apparatus by a mixture of snow (instead of the pounded ice), and the salts, and the trouble of reducing the ice into powder saved. I prefer the red fuming nitrous acid, because as I have observed in a former paper, it requires no dilution. Being vunder the necessity at one time of u-sing the pale nitrous acid, I found it required to be diluted with one-fifth its weight of water. The best and only way of trying or reducing any acid to the proper strength, is by adding snow, as Mr. CAVENDISHkirects, or the powdered ice to it, until the thermometer cease to riser; then cool the acid to the same temperature of the snow again, add more snow, which will make the thermometer rise again, though less; cool it again, and Mr. WALKER'S Observations on the repeat this, until the addition of snow or powdered ice will nt make the thermometer rise: to be very accurate, it should -be reduced in this manner to the proper strength, at the tempera-i ture, whatever it be, at vlwhich, the nitrous acid and snow, or powdered ice, are to be mixed together when cooled. In the course of my experiments I have endeavoured to ascertain the comparative powers of ice to produce cold with nitrous acid, in the different forms I have had occasion to use it. The result is, that fresh snow sunk a thermometer to32? ground ice to +?; and the most rare frozen vapour to below the vessel and materials each time being + 3Q0. The vessels for these mixtures, particularly that in which the quicksilver is to be frozen, should be thin, and made of the best conductors of heat; first, because thin vessels rob the mixture of less cold at mixing, i. e. if two mixtures of the same kind are made, one in a thin, the other in a thick vessel, the former will be coldest-; secondly, because the air is a sufficiently bad conductor; and :thirdly, for the very obvious reason, that the cold is transmitted through them quicker. For these reasons and from the difficulty I have found in procuring vessels of glass, which are undoubtedly fittest for experiments of this kind, I have used tin which is readily had in any form, and if coated with wax, is sufficiently secured against the action of the acids. I give the inside such a coating, by pouring melted white wax into the vessel, previously clean and dry, and turning it about by hand, so as to leave no point of the metal uncovered for the acid to act on,-pouring the surplus away In the experiment above described, I used a single vessel for cooling the nitrous acid; a cupping-glass (represented by best Methods of producing art/ficial Cold. 277 the dotted line at" b, fig. 4.) being cemented into the tin, and thereby formingthbat part-in which the nitrous acid was, first cooled, and the mixture afterwards made in, which the quick.silver was frozen : but, from the trouble and impediments ar.is.,ing -from''letting out the mixtur&, and clearing the bottom fromthe lumps of ice, &c. adhering to it, I was led to the ad-. dition of the other part (fig. 5.) by Which all these difficulties are got rid of, and it is besides a much more comfortable and neat way of conducting it --the upper part which contains the nitrous acid being lifted off and placed on the table, immediately before the powdered ice is added. The whole of this apparatus may be of tin, that part only (when the cooling mixtturesare made without. using any corrosive acid) in which the acid mixture is to be made, beingpreviously coated in the manner above mentioned; or a thin glass tumbler of a proper size. may be' cemented in. I have occasionally used a thin glass tumbler for the mixture in' which the quicksilver is to be frozen, immersing it with the acid in a frigorific mixture Still the acid is 'sufficiently cooled, then adding the ground ice to it, previously, removing the tumbler out of the frigorific mixture, as. in the experiment above mentioned; this simplifies the apparatus, but is less conw venient on many accounts. The scale of this apparatus may be diminished or increased at the will of the operator; for there is no doubt that a small quantity of quicksilver. may be frozen at any time with onefourth of this quantity, with' ap apparatus of this kind, by any one conversant in such experiments. I have frequently frozen quicksilver, by mixing together, at o60Ithree drams of ground ice with two drams of nitrous acid. MDCCXCV. 00 0 278 Mr. WALKER'S Observations on the Whenever the intention is, as in these experiments, to cool the materials to nearly the same temperature with the frigorific mixture in which they are im mersed, the proportion of the frigorific mixture to the intended mixture (or materials to be cooled) should not be less than twelve to one; a greater disproportion is still better. By attending to the directions particularly mentioned in the experiment made on Dec. 2-8th, a thermometer may be always dispensed with; the proportions of the materials to be cooled being exactly adjusted; -and when they are to be mixed precisely determined, by the time -employed in grinding the ice to powder. The proportions of snow, or pounded ice, and salt, or salts, may be guessed sufficiently near without weighing, unless in very nice experiments. Imagining that a recapitulation of the different mixtures, described in my former paper, for producing artificial cold, brought into one view might not be unuseful, I have subjoined a Table of the salts, their powers of producing cold with the different liquids, and the proportions of each, according to, a careful repetition of earh-; the temperature being 5oQ. best Methods of prod-cing artfcial Cold. i7g Temperature, Salts. Liquor, or cold produced, * Sal ammoniac 5, nitre 5 water i6 +l.0 Sal-ammoniac A, nitre by, GLAUBER ssalt 8 i6 +44 * Nitrous ammoniac i -. Nitrous ammoniac i, sal soda X 17 GLAUBER'S salt 3 d. nitr. acid 2 GLAUBER'S salt 6, sal ammoniac 4, nitre 2 -4 i00 GLAUBER'S 'salt 6, nitrous ammorniac5 4 -14? Phosphorated soda 9 -4 -12i Phosphorated soda 9, nitrous ammoniac 6 4 *--2i GLAUBER'S salt 8 marine acid j GLAUBER'S salt s d. vitr. acid 4 N. B. I have chosen the temperature of o because the materials may at any time, by immersion in water drawn from a spring, be cooled nearly to that temperature, and the prg be pe .d th experiment for freezing with any of these mixtures commence there. * The salts from each of these may be recovered by evaporating the mixture to dryness, anrd used again repeatedly. N. B.The figures after each salt, and after the liquor, signify the proportion of parts, by Troy weight; to be used; the trouble of weighing the water may be saved by observing, that a full ounce of it by wine measure corresponds -exactly with one ounce of it by Troy weight; likewise it must be noticed, when more kinds of salt than one are used, to add them to the liquor one after the other,. in the order-they stand in the Table: beginning on the left hand, and stirring the mixture well between each addition: d. iitr. acid, is red fuming nitrous acid two parts, and rain, or distilled water one part, 00 2 280 Mr.' W ALKER'S-Observations on the At: aq higher temperature than 5Q0, the quantity of the salts must be increased, and the effect-will be proportionably greater; at a lower temperature diminished, when the effect vill be proportionably less. I~t must beobserved, that to produce the greatest effect by' any frigorific mixture, the salts should be fresh crystallized,* not damp, and, newly reduced to very fine power; the vessel in which they are made very thin, and just large enough to contain the mixture and the materials' mixed intimately together, as quickly as possible, the proper proportions at any temperature (those in the Table being adjusted for the termperature of So? only) having been previously tried, by adding the powdered salts, gradually 4to the liquid, till the thermometer ceased to sink; observing to produce the full effect of one salt before a second is added, and likewise of the second before a third is added. Neither' soda, phosphorated soda,-nor GLAUBER'S salt' should be mixed with nitrous ammoniac, or the powder composed of sal ammoniac and nitre,.unless at a, lowr temperature, i. e. below O., but pounded and kept apart. -in the experiments alluded to. in' the Table, the precaution Of fresh'Crystallizing the salts was not observed, because I chose to give the ordinary effects only; I therefore then used salts in their common state, taking care, however, to choose' such as had not in the least.. effloresced. Since' it is always useful, and generally absolutely necessary, by Weight., well agitated together, and 'become cool: d. vitr. acid, Is strong vitriolic acid, and rain,-or distilled water, equal parts, by weight, thoroughly mixed -(very cautiously)and cooled. * Soda, phosphorated soda,' and GLA U;B E R' S salt, are best crystallized afresh, be. cause their Offectt especially-the two last in the acids, depends upon the quantity of water they contain in a solid state-. best Methodsofproducing artffcial Cold. 281 to know how much room in a vessel the several materials take up separately, and when mixed, it will be right to observe, that snow, or ice in powder, at near o0, occupy in measure nearly two-thirds more than their weight ; that is, oneounce weight of water will, when inl the form of snow, or ice ground to powder, nearly fill a vessel which holds three ounces wine measure; powdered salts nearly double their weight'; strong -nitrous acid about three-fourths its weight; and a mixturemade of salts and diluted nitrous acid, measures rather less than two-thirds of the weight of the ingredients. Without a previous knowledge of this, it is impossible to adjust the-size of the vessels to the mixtures which are to be made ; because, in most nice experiments of this kind, the height to which a vessel will be filled is indispensably necessary to be known beo. forehand. The long continuance of the late frost having afforded' me opportunities of repeating these experiments in various ways, I shall mention briefly the result of such as appear to me to be material. I have found, that ice may be ground so fine as to be equal to frozen vapour, and the harder it is frozen the finer it is ground, but with more labour-: That quicksilver may be frozen by cooling the nitrous acid only, saving the trouble and inconvenience of cooling -the snow likewise; either by adding snow at + 32?, to nitrous acid at -29; or snow at + st?, to nitrous acid at -20?0 or snow at + ?o0 to nitrous acid at-19 v; most winters offer an opportunity -of doing it in this way; the nitrous acid may be. cooled in a mixture of snow and nitrous acid: M8 Mr. WALKR'S Observations on tbe That it may likewise be frozen, by mixing expeditiously together snow and nitrous acid, when the temperature of each is + 70 Or by mixing ground ice and nitrous acid at + 1o0. Hence it follows, that the cold of this climate offers occasionally opportunities of freezing quicksilver, without previously cooling by art the materials to be mixed; for I have once seen the thermometer at + 6', and others, I believe, have seen it lower. I expected -an opportunity would have offered this winter,, but the lowest point I saw my thermometer at, this season, was only + 100; at this temperature, I mixed nitrous acid (cooled out of doors to the temperature of the air) and snow, on January 23d last; but the cold produced was not quite sufficient to freeze the quicksilver, although very near it, as indicated by a, thermometer. Frorn what I have observed since these latter experiments were made, I think it may -be reasonably expected, that powdered ice and nitrous acid at + 140, or snow at + 100, will succeed, if mixed expeditiously. Strong spirit of vitriol, whose specific. gravity is 1,848, required to be diluted with half its, weight of water, and produced with snow at the temperature of + 3oQ, about eight degrees.less than with nitrous acid, sinkIng the thermometer to -2+; four parts of the diluted vitriolic acid required, at that temperature, six parts of snow. It perhaps will be remarked, that I have taken no notice before of the vitriolic acid. The reason is, because the freezing point of quicksilver being 39, it may be frozen tolerably hard by a mixture of nitrous acid with snow, or ground ice. though best Methods of pro'-ducing artfidal Cold. 483 the utmost degree of cold this acid can producer with snow is -4i6? X which degree of cold may be producd by miXling the snow or ground ice and nitrous acid at &',. If it be required to make it perfectly solid and hard, a mixture of equal parts of the diluted vitriolic Acid and nitrous acid should be used withthe powdered ice, but then the materials should not be less than Io? before mxilug. If a still greater could be required than a mixture of this kind can give, which is about 56', the diluted vitrioic acid alone should be used with snow-or powdered ice, and the temperature at which the materials are to be mixed not less than20. Select, according to the intention,either of the three fol, lowing mixtures: First, snow or pounded ice two parts, and common salt one part, which produces a cold of ?Second, snow' or pounded ice twelve parts, common -salt five parts, and a powder, consisting of equal parts of common sal ammoniac and nitre mixed, fiv parts, which -produces a cold of 180: Third, snow or pounded ice twelve parts, common salt five parts,' and nitrous ammoniac in powder five parts, which produces a cold of 2,5. The proportions which -I have found to'be the best for mixing the snow or powdered ice with the different acids, at -different temperatures, are these; viz. at + 300, seven of the former to four of the nitrous acid; at + ? (with a trifling allowance, if any, for a few degrees above or below), three to two; at -12, four to three, with the mixed acids; and at 200, with the diluted vitriolic acid, equal parts,. Mr. WALKER'S Observations on the If it be required to prepare the materials in. a frigorific mixture, without the use of ice, a mixture of the proper strength may be chosen from the Table. It is immaterial, when the exact proportions of each are known, whether the powdered ice be added to; the acid, or the acid poured upon that, provided the powdered ice be kept stirred to prevent lumps forming, and the materials be mixed as quick as possible. But when the proportion is, not known, it is better to be. provided with more powdered ice than is expected to be wanted; and add it to the acid by degrees, until the greatest effect is produced, as shewn by a thermometer. The consistence isa pretty surer guide to those accustomed to mixtures of this kind viz.. when fresh additions of snow or 4ice do not readily dissolve in the acid, though well stirred, and the mixture acquires a thickish flocculent appearance. Snow, or powdered ice, that have ever been subjected to a cold less than freezing are spoiled, or rendered much less fit for experiments of this kind. I prefer the method of adding the powdered ice or snow to the acid in a -separate vessel, principally. because the size of that vessel may be exactly adjusted to the quantity of mixture it is to contain. A mixture made of diluted nitrous acid, phosphorated soda, and nitrous ammoniac (by much the most powerful of any compounded of salts with acids), prepared with the greatest accuracy, is not quite equal to a mixture of snow and nitrous acid, each mixed at + o0?, although very nearly. so. Though quicksilver may be frozen by salts dissolved in, acids, it. is necessary that the materials be cooled, previously to mixing, much lower than when snow or ground ice are used. best Methods ofpd grttjfiql Cold. If it be required to mix-. the powdered -sait and acids at a low temperature, the best method is this put firsto the nitrous ammoniac into the tubeof such an apparatus as fig. i. shaking it down level, gently pressing the upper sirfae smooth; thenr the phosphorated soa orGLAUBER'5 salt; cover this with a circulJar piece of writing paper, and pour a little melted white wax upon it, and when. cold, pour upon this the diluted nitrous acid; immerse this in a frigorific mixture till it is sufficiently cold, as found by dipping the thermometer into the liquor occasionally; force a communication through, and stir the whole thoroughly together, contriving that the tupper stratum of salt, that is, the .phosphorated soda or GLAUBER'S salt, be mixed with the liquor first, and then the nitrous ammoniac; the powdered salts do not require stirring whilst cooling, like snow, for however hard they are frozen, they will readily dissolve in the acid; care must be taken that the partition be perfect between the salts and the liquor;and that in this, and every instance where the materials are to be cooled, they be immersed below the surface of the frigorific mixture. The strength of the red fuming nitrous acid used in these experiments, I found to bei,51o, and that oflthe vitriolic acid IXS48. I have thought it better, for the sake of brevity, not to use in this, as in my -former rpapers, the new chemical names, especially as the old ones are more generally known. These experiments were chiefly made in a warm room, not far from the fire side. I have now finished my proposed plan respecting the best modes of conducting experiments on cold, in which it will appear, that I have reduced the congelation, of quicksilver, in MDCCXCV. P p ?86 Mr. WALKER'S Observations on the any-climate at any season, to as certain, and almost as easy a process, as that I originally set out with, for the freezing of' water (Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXVII.); viz. by previously cooling the materials in one mixture, to produce the effect in a second.It may very likely appear to some, that I have been too minute in a few particulars; yet as perhaps experiments of this kind, all circumstances considered, are inferior to few in the delicacy required to make them succeed completely, I trust I shall be excused by those who choose to repeat them., particularly such as are not in the habit of making experiments of this kind; especially if it secure them from an unsuccessful attempt, and that, perhaps, without being able to account for it. Oxford, March I t, -I79S. It is very well known, that vitriolic ether will produce suffi4 cient cold by evaporation to freeze water; this circumstance is noticed by many, and several different methods have been proposed, particularly one by Mr. CAVALLO, with a very ingenious apparatus for the purpose (Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXI.) nevertheless, as I am upon the same subject, and the following, experiments differ, as well in the effect produced as in the particular mode of conducting them, from any I have -met with, I have ventured to mention them. June 2gth, 1792, temperature of the air 710, I sunk a thermometer (the bulb being covered with fine lint tied over it, and clipped close round),: by dipping it in ethers and fanning it, to 260; then, by exposing the thermometer to the brisk. thorough air of an open window, to o?; and again, by using best Methods offproducing art ficial Cold. 287 some of the same ether, but Which had been purified by agi-. tating it with eight times its weight of water, applied exactly as in the last experiment, the thermometer sunk to 12?. Water tried in the same manner, at the same temperature, sunk the. thermometer to -56. A whirling motion was given the thermometer during each experiment. The lint was renewed for each experiment, and the bulb required to be dipped into the ether thrice; the first time-sufficiently to soak it, after which the thermometer was held at the window till it ceased to sink; then a second quick immersion, and likewise a third, exposing the thermometer -in like manner after each immersion. In' this manner a little water in a small tube may be frozen presently, by good ether not purf/ied, at any time, especially if a small wire be used to scratch or scrape the sides of the tubes below the surface of the water. During the warmest weather of last summner I frequently froze water in -this way. EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE. (Tab. XXIII.) Fig. i. is a vessel in onepiece, open at the bottom.; a, a, the body, holding inverted two pints; b, the tube, holding five ounces; the lower or smaller part (formed by a contraction, or lessening of the tube in diameter, merely for the purpose of leaving a small shoulder for a temporary partition), holding rather less than one-fifth of the whole. Fig. 2. is a vessel consisting of -two parts; a, a, the body, Pp2 288 Mr. WALgR'S Observations on the Tidding two _pints; ,the tube, holding five ounces, mwhich, togetierw tthhelid c, frms:a cover to take off and on the vess. N. B. This vessel may, if preferred, be used instead of fig. 1. the parts corresponding with it, except tinnotbeingopen at bottom and -the continuation-off'the tube upwardsjust -sufficient to. serve for a handle. Fig. S. is 'a vessel in one piece,open at the bottom, hold, ing when inverted two pints; b, the tube,-holding four ounces and a half. FigY. 4. a Vesselopen at bottom, holding inverted one pint. Fig; 5. a cover to fig. 4. a, a, the body, fitting exactly over, and b the cup-part (holding three ounces), fitting exactly within,--the corresponding parts of fig. 4. Fig. 6. the -instrument for grinding the ice into powder; it works upon a short centre point, and has the edge bevilled contrary ways on each side the point, so as to follow. Thefineness of the powder is regulated by ;the degree of pressure used. The handle is wood, the rest metal: a, is a sliding cover, fitting on the tube -in which the ice is ground, to exclude the external air, and to'keep the instrument steady b, is'the shoulder or guard,: to prevent the point of the instrument from touching, A; as to endanger injuring the'bottoit of the tube:.' It' should'be made:so asto -fit, 'without grating' the in-n sHde of the tibe -ing. The tubes of each o the vessels should be somewhat shorter Lhun the vesel, so as not quite to reach the bottom of it. Fig. 7. a thermometer -g''lA'Sy. with the bulb thriee-fottrth; full of quicks.ve. Phi/A Tram. MDCCXCVrTabXKf.L2 _ 1! I; a4 6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------best Methods ofproduacng artfcial Cold. ,8g Fig. 8. a thermometer, with the lower part of the scale. board turned up with a hinge, for the convenience of taking the temperature of small quantities, or of mixtures in which mineral acids form a part. N. B. These vessels are represented as in glass, that being undoubtedly fittest for purposes in, which corrosive: acids are to be used. 