A Method For Observing the Eclipses of the Moon, free from the Common Inconveniencies, as it was left by the Learned Mr. Rook, late Gresham-Professor of Geometry. EClipses of the Moon are observed for two principal ends; One Astronomical, that by comparing Observations with Calculations, the Theory of the Moons Motion may be perfected, and the Tables thereof reformed: the other, Geographical, that by comparing among themselves the Observations of the same Ecliptick Phases, made in divers places, the Difference of Meridians or Longitudes of those places may be discerned The Knowledge of the Eclipse's Quantity and Duration, the Shadows, Curvity, and Inclination, &c. conduce only to the former of these ends. The exact time of the Beginning, Middle, and End of Eclipses, as also in Total ones, the Beginning and End of Total darkness, is useful for both of them. But because in Observations made by the bare Eye, thesetimes considerably differ from those with a Telescope; and because the Beginning of Eclipses, and the End of Total darkness, are scarce to be observed exactly, even with Glasses (none being able clearly to distinguish between the True Shadow and Penumbra, unless he hath seen, for some time before, the Line, separating them, pass along upon the Surface of the Moon;) and lastly, because in small Partial (389) Partial Eclipses, the Beginning and End, and in Total ones of short continuance in the Shadow, the Beginning and End of Total darkness, are unfit for nice Observations, by reason of the slow change of Apparences, which the Oblique Motion of the Shadow then causeth. For these reasons I shall propound a Method peculiarly design'd for the Accomplishment of the Geographical end in Observing Lunar Eclipses, free (as far as is possible) from all the mentioned Inconveniences. For, First, It shall not be practicable without a Telescope. Secondly, The Observer shall alwayes have opportunity before his principal Observation, to note the Distinction between the True Shadow and the Penumbra. And, Thirdly, It shall be applicable to those Seasons of the Eclipse, when there is the suddenest Alteration in the Apparences. To satisfie all which intents, Let there be of the Eminentest Spots, dispersed over all Quarters of the Moons Surface, a select number generally agreed on, to be constantly made use of, to this purpose, in all parts of the World. As, for Example, those, which M. Hevelius calleth, Sinai. AEthna. Besbicus. Maeotis. Mons Insula Palus Porphyrites. Creta. Maraeotis. Lacus Niger Major. Serorum. Let in each Eclipse, not all, but (for instance) three of these Spots, which then lie nearest to the Ecliptick, be exactly observed, when they are first touch'd by the True Shadow, and again, when they are just compleatly entred into it, and (if you please) also in the Decrease of the Eclipse, when they are first fully clear from the True Shadow: For the accurate determinations of which moments of time (that being in this business of main importance) let there be taken Altitudes of remarkable Fixed Stars; on this side (390) side of the Line, of such, as lie between the AEquator and Tropick of Cancer; but beyond the Line, of such, as are situate towards the other Tropick; and in all places, of such, as at the time of Observation, are about 4. hours distant from the Meridian. 