(803) An Extract Of a Letter, written by Dr. Nathan. Fairfax to the Publisher, about a Bullet voided by Urine. SIr, I sent a while since by Mr. A. C. to Mr. B. for your self a certain Leaden-Bullet, voided by a Woman at the passage of Urine, the circumstances relating to which I design'd to commit presently after to a Letter, but was diverted from it till now. The rude history of it you may please to take as follows. G. Eliot of Mendlesham in Suffolk, a pale, middle-ag'd, full-bodied woman, sorely afflicted for some yeares with a torment of the Bowels, was prevailed with by a Neighbour, who had suffer'd much in the like case, to swallow two fit Bullets: whereupon she found (as he had done before her) present ease; but afterwards her pains return'd and increas'd, and she having many conflicts for about 15 years, then apply'd her self to my Apothecary, Mr. Gibson of Stow market, who administred to her in the fit a dose of Lady Hollands Powder, which she took in Posset-drink in the Morning, was mov'd gently by it in the after-noon, spent that night in torture of body with Vomitings, and next morning, during the use of the Chamber-pot, together with the Urine there came that from her, which giving a twang against the side of the Vessel, surprised her with wonder, what it should be; and the Urine being poured off warily, there was left in it a heavy and (to appearance) gravelly Stone, of a colour between yellow and red, near as big as on's Thumbs-ends (as she confidently asserts to me;) but making use of an Hammer, and knocking off the outer pars of its crust, they came at a Bullet inclosed in it, of a kind of Brazen colour on the out-side; but cutting a little with a Knife, it proved Lead within: which being discover'd could easily be accounted for. Asking her, if no inquiry had been made of such a Bullets comming from her before, she told me that some dayes after she took them, the Stools had been slightly examin'd, but finding neither, they gave over search. She being further ask'd about the bigness of the Bullet? She told me, it was apparently bigger when she took it, than when she voyded it. The state of her Body in reference to the Stone being inquired into, she said, that she had, before and since that befell her, been a voyder of abundance of red (804) red Gravel, and particularly, about three yeares after she took them, she voided a considerable reddish stone. When I ask'd her about the manner of affecting her Body at the comming forth? she answer'd, 'Twas much like a common fit of the Stone, onely it held her longer (lasting some weeks) bow'd her sadly forward, (as a Stone often does in the Ureters,) provok'd to Vomitings, and particularly she felt it crowd lower and lower from the Kidney to the Bladder, in the left Ureter. Asking her farther, Wether she was sure, it came by the passage of Urine, and not by Siege? She assur'd me, she was not mistaken in that. And indeed the gravelly Coat, which the Bullet hath, shews sufficiently, whereabout 'twas lodg'd. Inquiring also, Whether the other Bullet was come from her? She said no; for ought she knew, 'twas still in her body. And as to her state since this evacuation, she saith, that she hath had ever since Stone-collick-pains, but none in so high a degree, as before. This is the plain relation of the matter of Fact. The Maine use, I would make of the Instance (if it be worth mentioning) is to strengthen a conjecture, I have had a long time, of some other passage from the Stomack to the Bladder, besides what Anatomists have hitherto given accounts of. For that this Bullet never came at the Ureters through the Veines, Arteries, Nerves, Lympheducts (the onely vessels that can be charg'd with it) is, I think, beyond dispute. If it shall be said, that Nature, when put to shifts, finds out strange conveyances to rid the Body of what is extraneous and offensive to it, I readily grant it, because many instances are known, making that good; yet I think it not so pertinently urg'd, for as much as some other Instances seem to side with it, which cannot be taken off by the same evasion; viz. Many do find, that drinking 4 or 5 Glasses of Rhenish (for instance,) within less than a quarter of an hour they shall have a strong list to make Water, especially if the Body hath been agitated. Now that it should pass through the Lacteals, Veins, Heart, and Arteries, and be strain'd from the Blood in so short a time, is to me scarce conceivable. But surely this shorter passage (wherever 'tis) is as natural as that, by which it should have gone, had it staid longer in the Body. (805) Body: Not to Say, how little it favors of the rankness of the Kidneys, and how much it resembles that, which it was, before 'twas taken into the Body. And methinks, the conveyance of the Milk into the breast hath much affinity with this of the Urine into the Bladder; the sudden pressing whereof into the Papps after the Nurses drinking ordinary Milk could no more be explained by the ordinary doctrine of Circulation, than this of the urine into the Bladder, till the shorter cut was hit upon by the Ductus thoracici; though ordinarily it may be strayn'd in from the Arteries, as the Serum also in the Kidneys; onely in a Milk-floud Nature finds some other Channel there, as here in a Waterfloud. Lastly, Sometimes things are shed forth at the Niples, almost as much surprizing as this, we have spoken of, at the Neck of the Bladder. But I am perhaps too prolix in my reflexions, of which I desire you to believe I have as mean thoughts, as the Candidst of Readers shall. I am, &c. Woodbridge, sept. 18. 1668. 