XLII. Extract of a Letter from John Browning Esq; of Barton-Hill near Bristol, to Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. concerning a Dwarf. Dear Sir, Barton-Hill, Sept. 12, 1751. I AM just returned from Bristol, where I have seen an extraordinary young man, whose case is very surprising. He is shewn publicly for money, and therefore I send you the printed bill, which is given about to bring company; and also a true copy of a certificate from the minister of the parish, where he was baptized, together with the attestation of several of the neighbours of great credit and Read Nov. 7, 1751. [279] and veracity, some of whom are personally known to me. To these I have likewise added my own observations, as necessary to clear up the case. The certificate is as follows: `` T H I S is to certify, that Lewis Hopkin, the bearer `` hereof, is a man of a very honest character, and `` has six children. His second son Hopkin, whom `` you see now with him, is in the fifteenth year `` of his age, not exceeding two feet seven inches `` in height, and about 12 or 13 pounds weight, `` wonderful in the sight of all beholders. `` The said little man was baptized the 29 of `` January 1736, by me R. Harris, Vicar of Lantrissent, Glamorganshire. We have seen the above-mention'd youth, and have reason to think the contents above-mention'd to be true as set forth. Edmund Thomas Cha. Edwin Matt. Deen Hopkin Rees Anthony Powell David Thomas Nich. Price Wm. Cadogan. The gentlemen, that have seen the youth, and have signed their names, are all of figure and fortune in the county of Glamorgan. Mr. David Thomas lives 5 [280] lives in London, is an entry-clerk in the court of Chancery, and supplies country attornies with their writs, and lives in a lane or court near Gray's-Inn, Holborn. I went myself to view and examine this very extraordinary and suprising, but melancholy subject; a lad entering the fifteenth year of his age, whose stature is no more than two feet seven inches, and weight thirteen pounds; labouring under all the miseries and calamities of very old age; being weak and emaciated, his eyes dim, his hearing very bad, his countenance fallen, his voice very low and hollow; a dry husky inward cough, low and hollow; his head hanging down before, so that his chin touches his breast; consequently his shoulders are raised, and his back rounded, not unlike a hump-back. His teeth are all decay'd and rotten, except one foretooth below. He is so weak, that he cannot stand erect without a support. The father and mother both told me, that he was naturally sprightly, tho' weakly, until he was seven years old, would attempt to sing and play about, and then weighed nineteen pounds, and was as tall as, if not taller than, at present, naturally strait, wellgrown, and in due proportion: but from that period he hath gradually declined, and grew weaker, losing his teeth by degrees, and is now reduced to the unhappy state I have been describing. The mother is a very jolly healthy woman, in the prime of life: the father enjoys the same blessing. They both assure [281] sure me, this lad has a sister about ten years of age in the same declining state. I am, Dear Sir, Yours most affectionately, John Browning. As new-born children frequently exceed in weight this youth of fifteen years, I take the liberty to communicate his case, believing it will not be thought incurious. H. Baker. XLIII. 