XXVI. An Account of an Appeclrance of Light, like a Star, seen in the dark Part of the Moon, on Friday the 7tb of March, 1 794? by WilliamWilkins, Esq. at N5orwich. In Extracts of a Letter to the Rev. SamuelVince, F. A. S. and of three Letters to the FSev. Nevil Maskelyne, D. D. F. R. S. and Astronooner RoyalS and comnzunicated by the latter. Read July loX *794. LETTER Io RliVEREND SIR, Norwich, 17th April, x794. I RECEIVED your letter yesterday X and I aln extremely happy i;n giving you the best description in lny ponver respecting t}<e plaxnornenon I saw in the moon, on Friday the 7th of Marcll, a few minutes before eight o'clock in the evening. I was in laopes, as it was a brlght evening, that some astronomer might observe it, who would have described it in a more sczentic luanner than I can. The few observations I made were merely to comparewith some account I expected and wished to meet ill some periodical publication. My friend Mr. ECKWITH having the day before told me that I might see Mercury soon after suz-set, I had beell looliing for that planet from the Castle-hill in Norwich but was disappoitlted by a clouded llorizon. I lnention tllis merely as the reasotl of tny being Ied to a more particular notice of the moon also in this evening, havilzg lost the first object of tlaat evening's attentioneC 429-3 Mr. WILKINS S Account of a Light43oWhen I saw the light speck, as shewn in the sketch, (see Tab. XXI. fig. .3 I was very much surprised; for, at the instant of discovery I believed a star was passing over tlae moon, which on the next moment's consideration I knew to be impossible. I remelubered having seen, at some periods of the moon, detached ligllts from the serrated edge of light, through a telescope; but this spot was considerably too far distant froln the elllightened part of the moon; besides, this was seen witll the naked eye. I was, asit were, rivetted to the spot svhere I stood, during the tilue it continued, and took every method I could imagine to convince myself that it vas not an error of sight; and two persons, strangers, passed me at the sallle timef wllom I requested to look7 and they (may be, a little more igtlorant tllan xnyself) said it was a star. I anz confident I saw it five lninutes at least btlt as the time is only conjecttlral it might not, possibly, be so lotlgv The spot appeared rather; brighter. than arly other enlighterzed part of the moon. IT WAS THERE WHEN I FIRST LOOKED. The whole time I saw it, it was a FIXED, STEADY LIGHT, except the moment before it disappeared, svlaen its bRightneSS INCREASED, but that appearance was instantaneous. I have a reflecting telescope, and as I was very near homeS I had determined to return and use it on this occasiolz; for it svas so fixedS I had scarcely a doubt but its appearallce wou]d contitlue; but altnost at the installt7 alld whilst I was looking it totally disappeared. You can tell, by the age of tTle rnoon at that -timeS the apparent breadth of light upon the surface of that body, which, as near as I can judge, determines the distance of the spot from two points, B and 7 on the peripllery of the circle, (see fig. 1 ) in which A is the enlightened spot; B A A D . D C v B A D is supposed a right angle. see¢ tn the dark Part of the Moon.431I mentioned this soon afterulards to a gentleman of my acquaintance, who sometimes amuses himself in the stu(ly of astronomy; he was extremely itlquisitive about it, and conjectured this phaenomenon to be some great volcanic convulsiorl irl the moon, which induced me at that time to assist lny memory with a sketch like what I have here sent you. I shall be obliged to yoll, Sir, if you will favour lne with Dr. MASKELYNE'S oplnion, if what I have related is sufficient ground for him to form an opinion upon S and whetller any such phnomenon has ever before been observed. When I was lately in town, I mentioned the particulars to my sntorthy frielld Mr. H. REPTON and if my engagernents would have permitted, he was desirous I should call with him upon Dr. HERSCHEL, with whom he has some acquaintance. I ams &c. Norwich, WIIjLIAM WILKINS. s7th April, 1794. To the Rev. SAMUEL VI v CE. LETTER II. REV:EREND SIR, Norwich, 2d May, 1 794. I azzl favoured with yottr letter of the lst instantn respecting the description of the light spot observed by m-e ita the moon. I aln certain as to the evening I saw the pllnomenon, because I made thememorandum in a pocket journal I keep, besides, another local -circumstance convinces me of its being on a Friday, and rlot otl any other day than the 7th of March. You are undoubtedly right in supposing I had forgot how near the moon was to a half moon; and when I wrote to Mr. VINCE, I answered him irl haste S for his letter to me requested Mr. WILKrNS'S Account of a Light432an immediate answer, otl account of his engagement to leave Cambridge in a short time. If you will please to refer to my letter, I think you will find I was somehow aware of my not describing the age of tlle moon properly in the sketcll; for I said, " you will be able to tell by the age of tlle moon at that c; time, tZpe apparent breadtb of light, nvhich may, in some mea s; suren cletermine the situation of the spot according to lny '4 idea.' The sketcll I made at first was in pencil without tlle as sistance of compasses. It appeared like a small star, without chalzging its form or situation; and its distance was as far from the enlightened edge D as from the dark edge B. I am, &c. WILI,IAM WILKINS. To the Rev. Dr. MASKELYNS LETTER III. REVEREND SIR, Norlxlich, 8tll May, 1794. I am again favou-red with yours of the 6th instant. The evenirzg I saw the bright spot on the moon, I had been looiing for Mercury soon after sun-set, and walked more than an thour X and having been disappointed by a clouded horizon, I returned home (my house is within $o yards of the Castle hill) ; and after staying some time, set out again to the coffieehouse to look at the papers, as I usually do about-that time, i. ee eigllt o'clock. I took the Castle-hill again in my wayn when I was surprised with the appearance I have already describede After the disappearance of the 13hxnomenon, I was very seen tn the dark Part of the lMoon.433particular ill my inquiries respecting the time, and called purposely on a neighbour to astertain it with certainty; anct found it a few minutes before eight o'clock, which time I entered in my pocket journal fl and on inquiry of Mrs. WILKIN-S, she says I left home at that time. I am in my +4th year, and have a strong, good sight, not ia t}ze least short sighted. About two years sitlce, I purchased a pair of spectacles in town, because I did not, irl pointing a pen, see the nib so distinctly as formerly; but notwithstanding,, they lay in my drawer totally useless. My^profession has lately carried me frequently to Orfordness, where I have been corlstructitlg a lighthouse for Lord HOWARD, upon the new principle, with ARGAND lamps and reflectors; and the goodness of na sight has often been remarked, irs discovering vessels with the nakecY eye, which my comanions could not discover but svith the telescope. I find tlaat by looking some tzme at an object, nzy left eye waters, I suppose from weakness, but if I shut it, nzy other eye still remains strong sighted. Whetl the moon is young, I do perfectly see the svllole circumference, from the faint light wllich surrounds it, and orl that evening the moon appeared a well defiIled cresceolt. I remember seeing the star you mention that evening; but I think it was betnveen nitle and tell o'clock that I observed it e and it--was in appearalleeS may be, two of the moon's diameters distance to the vvest e but I did not particularly notice it. I am very certaill ofthis spot appearing W1THIN the circumferellce of the moon S cirele. I am, &c. \VILI>IAM WILKINS. Custl M-a;dow. To the Rev. Dr. M A S K E 1, Y N , * W1r. R. 8AcoN, who is publisher of one of the Sc)rwicil paposJ NIDCCXCIV. 3 K Mr WINKINS)S Sscount, &c.484LETTER IV. StR., Hare streets by RomI&ord, 26th May, 1794. Having been some days from Norwich, I received your fa vour of the s3d instattlt only this morning. The clocks at Norwich are regulated by meatl time, in the same manner as in Londoll. I llave heresvit-h given the figure you request,, copying tlle moon's appearance flom your scheme, not having any of my former sletches with tne (see fig. 2. ) ; I have placed the spot of light to the best of my recollection; and I hope itis. such as will be themeans of satisfyin$ your curious inquiries I atn, &c. MIII>IIANI: WILKIDV8 To the Revo 3)r M^$ XVtvN a 