An Extract of a Letter Lately Written by Dr Edward Browne to the Publisher, concerning Damps in the Mines of Hungary and their Effects. SIr, having been lately in the Copper,Silver,and Gold-mines in Hungary, I hope ere long to give you a particular account thereof; presenting this in the mean time concerning Damps in these Mines; whereof I understand, that they happen in most of them, that are deep; and that they happen not only in the Cuniculi or direct passages, where they walk on Horizontally (by these Mine-men call'd Stollen) but also in the Putei or Perpendicular Cutts or Descents (term'd Schachts by the same.) They are met with not only in places, where the Earth is full of Clay or the like substances, but also where it is Rocky: and one place they shew'd me in the Copper-mine at Hern-groundt, where there had been a very pernicious damp, and yet the Rock so hard, that it could not be broken by their Instruments; but the descent was all made by the means of Gun-powder, ram'd into long round holes in the Rock, and so blowne up. Another place they show'd me, where there is sometimes a damp, and sometimes clear weather. When there is much water in the (966) the Mine, so as to stop up the lower part of this passage, then the damp becomes discoverable, and commonly strong. I procared one to enter it, till his Lamp went out 4. or 5. times, in the same manner as at Grotto del Sane in Jraly. Damps are not all of the same force, but some weaker, some stronger; some suffocate in a small space of time, others only render the Workemen faint, with no further hurt, except they continue long in the place. The Miners (who think themselves no Workmen, if they be not able to cure a Damp, or to cure the bad Weather, or make the Weather, as they term it performe it by perfletin, by letting the Aire in and out, and causing, as 'twere, a Circulation of it. In the Mine at Herrn-groundt they did cure a bad Damp by a great paire of Bellows, which were blown continually for many days. The ordinary remedy is by long Tubes, through which the Air continually passing, they are able to digg streight on for a long way without impediment in breathing. For some Cuniculi are 500. fathoms long; which will not seeme strange to any one that shall see the Mapp of the Copper mine at Herrn-groundt or the Gold-mine at Chremnitz. And in the Silver-Trinity-mine by Schemnitz, I pass'd quite under a great Hill, and came out on the other side. At Windschach-mine by Schemnitz they show'd me the place, where 5. men and a Gentleman of quality were lost; for which reason they have now plac'd a Tube there. The like they place over all doores, and over all ways, where they digg right on for a great space, and have no passage through. At Chremnitz they told me, that 28. men had been killed at one time in 4. Cuniculi, 7. in each; and in the sinking of Leopold'spitt, which is 150. fathoms deep, they were much troubled with damps, which they remedied in this manner. They fixed a Tube to the side of the Schacht or Pitt, from the top to the bottom; and that not prouing sufficient, they forc'd down a broad flat board, which cover'd or stopp'd the Pitt, or couched very near the sides of it, on all sides but where the Tube was; and so forc'd out all the Air in the pitt through the Tube: which work they were forc'd often to repeat. And now they having divers other passiges into it, the Air is good and sufficient; and I was drawn up through it without the least trouble in breathing. But (967) But besides this mischief from poisonous Exhalations, Stagnation of the Air, or Water impregnated with minerall spirits, they sometimes perish by other ways. For there being in these Mines an incredible mass of wood to support the Pitts and the Horizontal passages, (the Putei and Cuniculi) in all places but where 'tis Rocky, men are sometimes destroy'd by the wood set on fire. And in the Gold-mine at Chremnitz the wood was once set on fire by the carelesness of a boy, and 50 Miners smothered thereby; who were all taken out but one, that was afterwards found to be dissolv'd by the Vitrioll water, nothing escaping either of flesh or bones but only some of his cloaths. I am &c. Vienna April. 20 1669. 