Some new Experiments Of injecting Medicated Liquors into Veins, together with the considerable Cures perform'd thereby. This was lately communicated in a Letter from Dantzick written by Dr.Fabritius,Physician in Ordinary to that City, which out of the Latin we thus English. FOrasmuch as we had a great desire to experiment; what would be the effects of the Chirurgery of injecting Liquors into Humane Veins, three fit Subjects presenting themselves in our Hospital, we thought good to make the Tryal upon them. But seeing little ground to hope for a manifest operation from only Altering Medicines, we esteemed, the Experiment would be more convenient and conspicuous from Laxatives; which made us inject by a Syphon about two Drachms of such a kind of Physick into the Median Vein of the right Arm. The Patients were these. One was lusty robust Souldier dangerously infected with the Venereal Disease, and suffering grievous protuberatings of the bones in his Arms. He,when the purgative Liquor was infused into him, complained of great pains in his Elbows, and the little valves of his Arm did swell so visibly, that it was necessary by a gentle compression of ones fingers to stroke up that swelling towards the Patients shoulders. Some 4 hours after, it began to work, not very troublesomly; and so it did the next day, insomuch that the Man had five good stools after it. Without any other (565) other remedies those protuberances were gone, nor are there any footsteps left of the abovementioned Disease. The two other Trials were made upon the other Sex. A married Woman of 35, and a serving Maid of 20 years of age, had been both of them from their Birth very grievously afflicted with Epileptick fits, so that there was little hopes left to cure them. They both underwent this operation,and there was injected into their Veins a Laxative Rosin, dissolved in an Anti-Epileptical Spirit. The first of these had gentle stools, some hours after the Injection, and the next day the fits recurring now and then, but much milder, are since altogether vanish'd. As for the other, viz. the Maid, she went the same day to stool four times, and several times the next; but by going into the Air, and taking cold, and not observing any diet, cast her self away. 'Tis remarkable, that it was common to all three to vomit soon after the injection, and that extreamly and frequently; the reason whereof we leave to intelligent Physicians to assign. 