[27] VII. An Account of the late mild Weather in Cornwall, of the Quantity of Rain fallen there in the Year 1762: In a Letter from the Rev. William Borlase, M. A. F. R. S. to Mr. Henry Baker, F. R. S. Dear Sir, Ludguan, Jan. 22, 1763. I AM very sorry to hear of your distress at London, by the rigour of the season. -Our winters in Cornwall are indeed generally more mild than any where in this island, but I do not remember so wide a difference as that of the present season with you and us. In November, on the 12. 13. 14. our frost began, mostly attended with hoar frosty mornings: here and there a pool of still water had a film over it, scarce strong enough to bear an egg, not a large pebble: and the frost was always over before noon.-Frost of the same degree on the 18th, and 20th, -hoar frost only the 26th. -Frost, but of no greater degree, Dec. 5. 6. and 7th.-Hoar only on the 11th. On the 14th and 15th, frost, but of the above degree only: a little sleet on the 31st post merid. To this day no frost or snow. On these coldest days the Thermometer was never so low as 38~ but on three days only, viz. Dec. 14 and 15th, and Jan. 9th.-I must not conceal from you, however, that some allowance must be made for the heighth of the Quicksilver, because my Thermometer is not with doors; but yet it stands in a little stair-case far from any fire, where the Sun in E 2 the Read Feb. 10, 1763. [28] the midst of summer never reaches till 6 o'Clock P. M. and in winter never: and the case in which the tube of Quicksilver is fixed communicates with the open air, by three holes lined with tin, pierced through the munnion of the window to which it is fixed; so that tho' it is not in the open air, yet must the Quicksilver be exposed to every extremity of the Atmosphere by constant intercourse. You will judge that our cold was no ways excessive, when I add, that the balm of Gilead, in the natural open ground, has not suffered: the myrtles are in perfect health: the mignonettes in flower: the cluster rose and white Violet in bloom at Christmas; and at the same time I had the scarlet double ranunculus full blown given me by a neighbour. The double hyacinths have formed their bells, and some are now ready to unfold. It has not (I believe) been remembered in the age of man, that in the west of Cornwall we have ever had such a long continuance of easterly winds. About the middle of Nov. for 14 days the wind had its prevailing turn from the east. It was easterly, with a variation now and then (a point or two) to the north or south, every day of December, excepting the 21st, when it blew W. S. W. and S. S. W. and to this 22d day of January it has blown every day from the east, varying half a point or so to the S. or N. Since I have entered into these latter disquisitions on the season, give me leave to add the quantity of water fallen here in the year 1762. January [29] Inches. Tenths. Parts of a Tenth. January 4 3 0 February 2 1 0 March 2 8 0 April 1 0 1/2 May 1 0 0 June 0 2 0 July 0 5 0 August 3 5 0 September 4 3 0 October 5 6 0 November 3 2 ~ December 1 4 0 In the whole 29 9 4/6 If you, Sir, or any of your acquaintance keep an ombrometer, and register of the rain at London, I should be glad to know how much fell there, for by such observations it might in time be known where the quantity exceeds. I think round Paris they reckon but at 19 inches, but in islands, and near the Sea coast it must be more. I remain, Sir, your most obedient servant William Borlase. IX. An 