Tabula ~ Physiologica Ca ru le tam mixtorum quam simplicium Candidte Hispan. Montanum Cypnum Quadrilinguis unacum speciminibes adjectis ~ Glastinus Cyaneus ~ Regiae Societati Londinensi humillime snow wh Watcnet D.D.D.a Ric. Waller S.R.S. Cae ru -, le Lactus ~ Argenteus ~ ~ Caenileus ~ Cerupa Blanch come du Lait mille wh. Silver Co. ~ Co. Skie Col ~ ces Lutei mixti Vi ri Limoneus Paleus Cymatilis Saligineus ~ Masticol Limon Co Straw Co. Wave Co. Willow g. Gutta Aureus ~ Luteolus. ~ ~ Herbeus Gamboe Coleur dor. Gold Col. Yellowish Poppin jay gr. Grap ~ Luteus ~ Electricus ~ Vitreus. ~ ~ Clay Col. ~ Co. ~ Co HuripigGtrinus. ~ Byssinus. ~ mentum Orange C Raw silke Co. ~ ~ subfuscus Umbria ~ Bronne Dun ~ ces Rubei mixti Pur pu Igneus ~ ~ ~ Minium C du feu. ~ Col. Bricke Co. Ochra Ruffus Helvus Baduis ~ usta Carret C. Sarrel. Bay Bay Minialus ~ Carneus. ~ ~ du Vermillon Cornation Coccinus ~ Roseus ~ Molochinus ~ ~ Carmin ~ Gimson Rosey Mallow Co Purple Roy Rubinus Caryophylleus Persicus amathistinue Lacca Ruby-red. Pink Col. Peach Col. amath ~ Sanguineus. ~ Draconis C.du ~ Blood red Terrugineus. ~ Baeticus Rubrica Rust Co. ~ ~ Piceus. ~ Griseus ~ ~ Cinereus. ~ ~ C.du poiae Gray ~ ~-col Ash-col i Sim ple ces smalt Litmase Indicum atramentum sinicum ~ Lazurius. Violaceus ~ Indicus ~ Coracinus ~ Co.d axure, ~ Violet C. Raven C. i Mi x ti ~ ~ Col. Iacinth Co.de Plomb. ~ Co. des Mi x ti ~ ~ ~ Higellus ~ Willow gr. Sea gr. Black & Blew Blackish Porraceus ~ ~ gr. Leeke Co. ~ ~ Co. Murinus Castaneus Mouse Co. Chesnut e ~ Mix ti Pullus Earth Co. ~thiopicus. ~ negro-Black Livido-purpureus ~. ~ ~ Soot C. Dibaphus Purpureus. ~ ~ ~ Roy. Purple in grain C.dePourpr Purple. ~ Paonaceus ~ amath Prefous Hiberus Ater Bronn More Murrey Coal-black ~ ~ Elbidus Niger. ~ ~ Iron-gray Dark-gray Black A C A T A L O G U E of Simple and Mixt Colours, with a Specimen of each Colour prefixt to its proper Name: By R. W A L L E R, Fellow of the Royal Society. HAving sometime since seen a T A B L E of the Simple ~ made use of in Limning and Painting,Printed in the Year 1680, at ~; I have here endeavoured to give a more Philosophical, and useful one by the addition of some mixt Colours: Not that I pretend to give the Shades of all the ~ Colours, which were indeed infinite as the Compositions and Proportions of them may be unlimited; but I have mixt each of the Simple Yellows and Reds with each of the simple Blews, and these Mixtures give most of the mean Colours, viz. Greens, Purples, &c. To know what each of these ~ Colours is compounded of, you need but look to the Top of the Table directly over the Colour enquired after, where you may find the One Ingredient, and at the Side in the [25] the same Row, the other. As the Poppinjay-green is made of Blew Bice and Camlodia, an equal weight of each. I chose Weight rather than Measure, because the heavier Colours have generally the more Body, and therefore come nearest to an Equality that way. I have added the Latin, Greek, French, and English Names that I knew, which the more skilful Reader may supply where wanting. I propose to my self that this Table will be of some use and advantage in the describing of the Colours of Natural Bodies, which may be done by this Table, and represented more nearly to the Reader provided with one of the same Tables, with less ambiguity, I think, than is usual: A Standard of Colours being yet a thing wanting in Philosophy. Thus to describe a Plant, it may be seen which of the simple or mixt Colours comes nearest to it, and then the Word affixt to that Colour may be made use of, which the Reader, if desirous, may look in his Table, and find together with the Pattern thereof. The Table of Colours is to be Inserted after this Leaf, which ought to be done with a Guard and a White-leaf between after the Book is bound, lest otherwise the Colours by beating stick together. A short [26] A short Discription of the Simple Colours specisied in this Table. 1. SPanish White made of Chalk and Alumn burnt together. 2. I take the Lapis Armenius to be the blew Bice sold in the Shops, for it is light and friable; formerly brought out of Armenia, now from the Silver Mines of Germany, called Melochites, in high Dutch Bergblaw. 3. Ultramarine is made of the blewest lapis Lazuli, which is freest from Gold-veins, by Calcination; the method of preparing it being too large for this place, may be seen in Doctor Merret's ingenious Notes upon Neri's Art of Glass, lib. 7. 4. Smalt is made of Zaffer and Pot-ashes, calcined together in a Glass-furnace. Dr. Merret ib. 5. Litmase, or Litmose, I suppose the Juice of a Plant. 6. Indigo said by Pliny to be brought from India: a kind of Mud adhering to the Froath about Reeds, and that when tryed with a Coal, the true burns with a Purple-flame, and smells of the Sea: Linschoten says, it is called Anil, that it grows in Cam aia, and is a Plant like Rosemary, which is gathered and dryed, then wetted with fair Water, and beaten to a Mud; this Operation being repeated, it is dryed and fitted for use, cap 69. 7. Indian Ink, its Use known to Pliny, tho' not its Composition; which is yet undiscovered, except it should be burnt Rice, as hath been thought. So much for the Blews at the Head of our Table; the Yellows and Reds made use of, are these that follow. 1. Ceruse is the Rust of Lead made by a vaporous Calcination; Pliny writes thus of it in the 34. lib. cap. 18. Ceruse, or ~ is made in the Plummers Shops; of small Plates [27] Plates of Lead laid upon a Vessel of very strong Vinegar, what falls into the Vinegar is taken out, and dryed in the Sun: and in the 35 Book, Chap. 6. he says it was made at Rome of burnt Mar le-flint quench'd in Vinegar. 2. Masticot is a kind of improper Calx of Tin. 3. Gutta Gambae, or Cambodia, the inspissated Juice of a Plant, not well known, it comes from both the Indies. Some think it the Juice of Euphorbium; others Scammony, or Tithimal; others Ricinus; others refer it to the greater Cataputia, Esula, or the Flowers of the Indian Ricinus, and will have it coloured with Turmerick: as Scroder. 4. Oker a kind of Natural Earth, there are two sorts thereof, the one Native formerly brought out of Attica, now from Dacia and Hungaria, and from many places of England, especially in the Forrest of Dean: The other a factitious substance of Lead burnt and quench'd in Vinegar. In Pliny's time it was made of Rubrica, or Reddle burnt. 5. Orpiment, a fat inflammable Mineral, justly ranked amongst Poysons for its extream Corrosive quality. Pliny says it was dug up in Syria on the Surface of the Earth; and that the Emperor Caligula had hopes of getting Gold out of it; wherefore he caused 14 Pounds of it to be tryed, which afforded him very good Gold, but in so small a Proportion, that he lost by the tryal. 6. Umber is a Native Earth. 7. Red-lead, a Colour unknown to the Antients,made of Litharge or burnt Lead by a Reverberatory Calcination, or of Ceruse put in a Platter over the Fire, which must be continually stirred till it has acquired a Red-lead colour. Dr. Charlton de Foss. 8. Burnt Oker is the common yellow Oker burnt in the open fire. 9. Cinnabar or Vermillion. There are two sorts; Native or the Minium of the Ancients, which is the Mineral that yields Quicksilver; whereof, and of Sulphur it chiefly consists, D it [28] it is found in the Mines of Istria. This Colour was among the Ancient Romans used to sacred Purposes, and on Festivals Jupiters Face was painted therewith, as likewise the Bodies of those that entred in Triumph. The factitious Cinnabar is that which we now use; and is made by a sublimation of Mercury and Sulphur. 10. Carmin made of Cochineel. 11. Lake,thought to be an Arabick word: It is made of Flocks dyed, or shavings of Scarlet-cloath, or of the Cochineel Insect, or else of Kermes-berries, their Tincture being extracted with a Lye of Pot-ashes, and then precipitated with a Solution of Roch-alum. After the same manner a Lake may be made of any Plant or Flower; a more exact Information touching this matter, may be had in Mr. Boyle's Treatise of Colours, Part. 3. Exp. 49. and Dr. Merret's Notes on Neri's Art of Glass. lib. 7. There is also another sort of Lake made of Gun-'ac, by extracting its Tincture with Urine. Dr. Merret, ibidem. 12. Sanguis Drasonis is the Gum of a Tree which looks like dryed Blood, 'tis brought out of several places in the East Indies; and the Tree which produces it is very well described in the Hortus Malabaricus. 13. English Reddle or Ruddle, is found in many places of England, amongst the rest near Witney in Oxford-shire. Dr. Plot's Hist. of Ox. c. 3. 14. Lamp-black, by Pliny thus described: It is made of the Soot of Rosin or Pitch burnt, Houses being built on purpose for it, that keep in the Smoak. Its Use is in Writing-books, ~. 35. cap, 6. In [29] In usum Exterorum visum est ~ ~ atque Catalo~ ~ ~ donare. C U M aliquando viderim Nomenclaturam Colorum simplicium ~ ~ editam per D. Sl. Brenner; mihi in mentem venit opus me praestiturum Genio, ac fini Regiae Societatis, nec absonum, nec inutile, si talis, non modo Simplicium, verum etiam Mixtorum ~ Tabulae conficiendae modum excogitare potuerim: magis autem fore gratum si cuique ~ Specimen Coloris apponi possit; quod Amice Lector hic tandem effectum vides. Constructionem Tabulae quod spectat, in Capite omnes Caerulei Simplices, & Primarii apponuntur, & ad Latus primo Luteos, ac deinde Rubeos affixos vides, cum speciminibus propriis, & nominibus in Officinis notioribus: Caeteri, viz. Pallidiores ~,Flavi,~ necnon Virides, & Purpurei omnes, e mixtura Simplicium aequis partibus Orti, reliquam Tabulae partem complent. puta Specimen Colori ~ affixum, compositum est ex aequo pondere Cyprii ad Caput Tabulae videndi, & Guttae Gambae ad Latus, intime Commixtorum: Sic dicendum de caeteris. Speciminibus etiam adjeci nomina Latina, Graeca, Gallica, & Anglica, saltem quae mihi nota; quae autem desiderantur magis verborum gnarus apponas Curiose Lector, ac nostro defectui subministres Rogo. Ad usum vero hujusce quod attinet, non leviusculum hinc enaturum confido: restat enim hucusque quid Desideratum nempe justa Colorum statera. Jam siquis Plantarum, vel Animalium Integumentum describere velit, ope hujus Tabulae minimo Labore, sine ulla Ambage, vel Ambiguitate rem conficiet, idemque genuinis quasi depictum coloribus, Lectoris eadem instructi Tabula oculis subjiciet. Exempli gratia, Gentianellae flos colore est azurino, exterius in saligneum vergente, hujusque plantae folia prope Herbei sunt coloris. Hoc quale cunque Tentamen in meliorem partem accipias, studioque nostro tibi subserviendi fruaris faeliciter, & ~ candide. Vale. D 2 Sequi[30] Sequitur Pigmentorum Simplicium in hac Tabula exhibitorum Descriptio aliqualis. 1.C Andidum Hispanicum fit ex Creta alba et Alumine in Crucibulo simul calcinatis. 2. Montanum, vel Lapis Armenius, levis est & friabilis: olim ex Armenia deferebatur, hodie vero reperitur in Germania in Argenti fodinis; dicitur etiam Melochitis, Berghlaw. Scrod. Pharm. Med. Chym.l.4.Clas.4.~.465. 3. Cyprium, vel Ultramarinum ex lapide Lazuli, seu Cyano per calcinationem fit. Hujus praeparationis methodum cum nimis taediosum foret hic percurrere, videas D. Dris Merreti Notas in Art. Vitrariam Neri.l.7.c.115. 4. Smaltum Efficitur calcinando in fornace Zafferum, una cum cineribus clavellatis. Modum exhibet Ars Vitraria. Dr. Merret, lib.7.cap.72. 5. Litmas vel Litmos, uti videtur, succus est plantae alicujus inspissatus. Indicum, Authore Plinio ex India provenit, constans limo quodam arundinum spumae adhaerescente; probatur carbone, sincerum enim reddit flammam excellentis purpurae, ac dum fumat Odorem Maris redolet, l.35.c.6. A Linschoten vero aliter describitur. Anil, vel Indicum in regione Cambaiae fit, ex planta quadam Rorimarino simili; quae carpitur, & exiccata, aqua denuo humectatur, ac tundendo maceratur, quo facto evaporatur aqua, ac pigmentum conficitur. Linschot. cap 69. Hodie vero in insula Jamaica et alibi in Americanis nostris Coloniis copiose provenit, ac ad hunc ferme modum praeparatur. 7. Atramentum Sinicum vel Indicum Plinio, cui ignotum erat ex quo constabat; neque etiam nobis plane innotuit quid ~: a quibusdam vero creditur Oriza usta. Hoc [31] Hoc sufficiat descriptioni Caeruleorum ad Caput Tabulae positorum. jam Pauca de ~ & ~ ~. 1. ~ est AErugo Plumbi per Calcinationem vaporosam. Diosc. l.5. c.103. De hac ita Plinius; Cerussa vel Psimythium fit ex laminis Plumbi tenuissimis super vas aceti asperrimi impositis, atque ita distillantibus iis, quod in vas decidit, ad solem siccatur, lib. ~.cap.18. ~ testatur aliud genus Romae factum,cremato silice Marmoroso & restincto aceto, l.35. c.6. 2. Masticot est Calx quaedam impropria sic dicta ex Stanno confecta. Helm.de Lithi.c.1. 3. Gutta Gambae, succus inspissatus Plantae minus notae; ex India utraq; venit, juxta quosdam Euphorbii, alios Ricini vel Tithimali; vel Scammonii succus est. Sunt qui ad Esulam, & Cataputiam majorem, vel ad flores Ricini Indi originem ejus referunt, coloremque ex Curcuma conciliatum volunt. Scrod. ib.l.4.c.4.~.465. 4. Ochra, Terrae species: duplex autem habetur, Nativa, quae apud nos multis in locis reperitur, praesertim in Saltu de Dean. Factitia altera ex Plumbo adusto & in aceto extincto, facta vero est tempore Plinii ex Calcinata Rubrica: Plin. l.35. c.6. 5. Auripigmentum, Arsenicum. Minerale est pingue, & inflammabile, jure inter venena referendum propter in insignem ejus qualitatem corrosivam. Plinius dicit in Syria effodi in summa tellure, & olim sperasse Caligulam ~, aurum exinde colligi posse; quamobrem excoqui jussit ad pond lib. 14. ex quo purum quidem Aurum elicuit, sed tam exigua quantitate, ut experimenti sumptus non rependeret. 6. Umbria Terra est Nativa. 7. Minium factitium,ignotum veteribus; Fit ex plumbo per calcinationem reverberatorii; vel ex ~ in Patina super ignem posita, ac continue Rudicula agitata, donec colorem Minii acquisiverit. Dr. Charlton de fossil. 8. Ochra-usta, Ochra est nativa lutea nudo igne adusta. 9. Cinna[32] 9. Cinnabaris Graecis Miltos, duplex est; Nativa, Minium Veterum: minera vero est e qua excoquitur Hydrargyrum, quaeq; ex eo et Sulphure plurimum constat. copiose provenit in Mercurii fodinis Istriensibus. Color hic apud Veteres Romanos in sacros usus adhibebatur, eoq; Jovis simulachri faciem diebus festis illinere solebant, ut & Triumphantium corpora: Plinio veteres citante l.33.c.7. Ubi dicit Romam solummodo ex Hispania advectum fuisse. Altera Factitia ac nobis usitata, fit ex Mercurio cum sulphure sublimato. Scrod. l.3.c.15. 10. Carmin fit ex Coccinella. 11. Lacca, vocabulum creditur Arabicum, efficitur autem Lacca haec ex Coccino, ex floccis Scarlata tinctis, vel ex Coccinella, vel ex granis Kermes, Lixivio ~ clavellatorum extrahendo tincturam, quae deinde solutione Aluminis Rupei praecipitatur: pari modo ~ quorumvis Laccam extrahas. Informationem pleniorem cupiens adeat. Nob. D. Boyle Tract.de Color. Part.3.Exp. 49.et Merreti Notas in Art. Vit. Neril. 7.c.116. 119. Alia etiam datur Lacca ex Gummi-lac, cujus tinctura Urina humana extrahitur.Merret, ib. 12. Sanguis Draconis, lachryma arboris cujusdam instar sanguinis Exiccati concreta; Ex India orientali advehitur, et arbor e qua Lachryma haec exudat accurate describitur in Hortu Malabarico. 13. Rubrica Anglica, in multis Angliae locis reperitur. 14. Atramentum Fuliginosum, nihil aliud est quam fuligo Resinae, vel Picis concrematae collecta, qua propter officinas aedificavere fumum illum non emittentes; olim ad Atramentum Scriptorium in usu erat. Plin. l. 35. c. 6. 