An Extract Of the Anatomical Account, written and left by the famous Dr. Harvey, concerning Thomas Parre, who died in London at the Age of 152 years and 9 moneths. THis Account is annexed to a Book, lately publisht in Latin by Dr. John Betts M. D. one of his Majesties Physitians in Ordinary, and Fellow of the London-Colledge of those of that Profession:In which Treatise (to touch that briefly) the Author endeavors to shew, that Milk, or something Analogous to it, (887) it, is the universal nourishment of all living Creatures, and the immediate and whole Matter of Blood; whence, and from the three parts whereof, Uiz. the Butyraceous, Serous, and Caseous, and their various concoction in the Stomach, and constitution in the Veins, he would deduce the different nature of the Humors and Spirits composing the blood; as from the different Quantity and Quality of these, he would derive the whole business of Health, and Sickness, and the method of Cure. But as to the Observations made upon the Person and Diffection of Thom. Parre, 'tis noted; 1. That he was a poor Countryman of Shropshire, whence he was brought up by the Right Honorable Thomas Earl of Arundel and Surrey, and that he dyed, after he had out-lived nine Princes, in the tenth year of the Tenth of them, at the age of 152 Years and 9 Moneths. 2. That being open'd after his death (Uiz. An. 1635. Nouemb. 16.) his body was found yet very fleshy, his breast hairy, his Genitals unimpaired, serving not a little to confirm the report of his having undergone publick Censures for his incontinency; especially seeing that after that time, uiz, at the age 120 years, he married a Widow, who owned, Eum cum ipsa rem habuisse, ut alii mariti solent, & usque ad 12 annos retroactos solitum cum eacongressum frequentasse. Further, that he had a large Breast, Lungs not fungous, but sticking to his ribs, and distended with much bloud; a. lividness in his face, as he had a difficulty of breathing a little before his death, and a long-lasting warmth in his Armpits and Breast after it (which sign together with others were so evident in his Body, as they use to be in those, that die by suffocation.) His Heart was great, thick, fibrous, and fat. The bloud in the Heart blackish and dilute. The Cartilages of the Sternum not more bony, than in others, but flexile and soft. His Viscera very sound and strong, especially the Stomach; and it was observ'd of him that he used to eat often by night and day, though contented with old Cheese, Milk, course Bread, small Beer, and Whey; and which is more remarkable, that he did eat at Midnight, a little before he died. His Kidneys cover'd with fat, and pretty found; only in the anterior surface of them there were found some aqueous or serous (as 'twere) abscesses, whereof one was near the bigness of a Hen-egge, with a yelH h h h 3 lowish (888) lowish water in it, having made a roundish cavity, impressed in that kidney: whence some thought it came, that a little before his death a suppression of Vrine had befallen him; though others were of opinion, that his Vrin was suppressed upon the regurgitation of all the Serosity into the Lungs. Not the least appearance there was of any Stony matter either in the Kidneys or Bladder. His Bowels were also sound, a little whitish without. His Spleen very little, hardly equalling the bigness of one Kidney. In short, all his inward parts appear'd so healthy, that if he had not changed his Dyet and Air, he might perhaps have lived a good while longer. 3. The Cause of his death was imputed chiefly to the change of Food and Air; forasmuch as coming out of a clear, thin, and free Air, he came into the thick Air of London, and after a constant, plain, and homely Countrydiet, he was taken into a splendid Family, where he fed high, and drunk plentifully of the best wines, whereupon the natural functions of the parts of his body were over-charged, his Lungs obstructed, and the habit of the whole Body quite disorder'd; upon which there could not but soon ensue a dissolution. 4. His Brain was found entire and ferme: And though he had not the use of his Eyes, nor much of his Memory, several years before he died; yet he had his Hearing and Apprehension very well, and was able even to the hundred and thirtieth year of his Age to do any Husbandmans work, even Threshing of Corn. 