[1] Num. 179 P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. For the Months of January, and February, 1686 T H E C O N T E N T S. 1. AN Advertisement. 2. A Discourse concerning Gravity, and its Properties, wherein the Decent of Heavy Bodies, and the Motion of Projects is briefly but fully handled. Together with the Solution of a Problem of great use in Gunnery: By E. Halley. 3. An account of an Experiment shewn before the Royal Society, of Shooting by the ~ of the Air: By Dr. D. Papin, R. S. S. 4. Part of a Letter from Dr. Salomon Reisel, chief Physician to the Duke of Wirtemburg, about an Extraordinary Tincture given to a Stone. 5. A Catalogue of Simple and Mixt Colours, with a Specimen of each Colour prefixt to its proper Name: By R. Waller, Fellow of the Royal Society. Accounts of Books: 1. An Essay towards the Recovery of the Jewish Measures and Weights, comprehending their Moneys, by help of Ancient Standards, compared with ours of England: By Richard Cumberland, D. D. 2. Ephemeris ad annum a Nativitate Domini, 1686, & ad Longitudinem Urbis Londinenfis, ex Novis Hypothesibus exactissime Supputata & Regiae Societati Dicata. A D V E R T I S E M E N T. IT having been found by Experience that several Curious Persons have been and are ~ to receive some Account of what the Learned part of the World are for the present busied a(a) bout [2] bout, in the examination of experimental and real Knowledge, and what Discoveries they have made in any part thereof. The Royal Society have therefore thought fit to order, that Care be taken for the suture, that such Accounts shall be published in these Transactions Monthly, as may answer their expectations: Wherein will be contained not only several Experiments, Invented and tryed by divers of their own Body, but also such other useful Discourses or Relations concerning Physical, Mathematical, and Mechanical Theories or Observations as shall be by their Correspondants for that Intent, or shall otherwise be sent to, or collected by the Person that hath engaged bims in this Undertaking. He ~ therefore hereby Advertise all ~ Curious Persons as shall be desirous to promote this Design, by Contributing what shall occur to them that may be useful ~; that upon their Communications they shall have such Acknowledgements made them as shall be to their satisfaction. And ~ divers Books and Treatises of such Philosophical Matters as ~ under the Societies Consideration, are published in Foreign Parts, which are seldom to be found till some years after, if at all, to the great damage both of the Authors and the Printers of them, and more especially to the Inquisitive of this ~: It is therefore desired and hoped that for the future, all such Authors or Publishers, or such Ingeni us Gentlemen as shall in their Travels meet with such Books or Tracts, will be pleased to send or lend ~ to the Undertaker of this Affair, that so an Impartial Account and Extract of them may be communicated to the Curious. And tho' upon an ~ occasion these Transactions have for some Months last past been omitted, yet that defect will be soon supplyed by the speedy Publication of what has occurred since December last, and will be for the future continued at least as punctually as heretofore. Those that desire to Contribute to the carrying on of this Work, may please to send the Accounts they would have Printed to Mr. H. Hunt at Gresham Colledge,London, for the Secretaries of the Royal Society. A D I S