An Account Of some particulars, referring to those of Jamaica, Numb. 27. and 36, Communicated by Mr. Norwood the younger, an Eyewitness. 1. ALlegators are shap'd like Lizzards, being four footed they walk with their Belly at distance from the ground, like Lizzards. Those of a full growth, have Teeth like a Mastiff, and a Mouth of 1~ foot wide, They are of so strong a scent,that you m~y smell them at a pretty distance, when they lie on the land. They may be master'd and kill'd by any, dextrous and skill d in the way of doing it, which is, that a Man be arm'd with a good long Tronchion, and fall upon them side-wayes; for doing it frontwayes, they are too nimble for the assailant, and may,by leaping upon him, (which they can do the length of their whole Body) spoil him: but if he lay his Club on them against their shoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and lame them there, the beast being thereby rendred uanble to move, is easily subdued. 2. Tortoiles, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they shall live, their blood must not be hotter, than the Element, they live in. 3. The Chego's, described by Ligon, are not felt to have got in o the body,till a week after. They will breed in great numbers, and shut themselves (825) selves up in a bagg, which when you feel, there are certain skilfull Men who with little pain will take them out~ having great care to take out the bagg entirely, that none of the brood (which are like Nits) may be left behind, for fear of giving rise to a new generation. * 4. The shining Flyes are a kind of Cantharides, looking green in the day time, but glowing and shining in the night, even when they are dead; this relator affirming, that he hath applyed them dead to a Printed and Written paper in the dark, and read it. 5. The Manchinel-Apple is one of the beautifullest fruits to the Eye, of the agreeablest to the smell, and of the pleasantest to the taste (being thence call'd by many the Eve-Apple) but if eaten, certain death. The wood of it yet green, if rubb~d against the hand, will fetch off the skin, or raise blisters; and if any drops of rain, falling from this Tree, light upon one's hand, or other naked part of the Body, it will also have the aforesaid effect. * Dr. Stubbs saith, that they breed commonly in the Negro's, and that no English get them, but by going in places frequented by them. He thought, that our Stockings, Socks and Shooes would guard the English from them, but he found, that neither they, nor the hardness of any skin was a fence against them. He observ'd, that they are incident most to such, as a~e nasty about the Fect; and that seldome any else have them. He had one himself under the great Toe of his right foot, which/place was then as hard, as if it had a Corne there. The Cuticula being naturally as hard there, he did not suspect a Chego. It itch'd extreamly ~ nothing could be seen, only the adjac~nt parts round about, to the compass of a Crown-piece of Silver,look'd red, and as if it had been some saline serous blood, the colour fled upon the pressure of his finger. Apprehending it might be a Corne, he sate down to cut it. He had not pared it much, but he discover'd the Chego, and her bagg; whereupon he repair'd to the Negro's, who with a Needle pick'd out two baggs, and filling the same with Ear-wax, he never felt more on't. He adds, that they will spread by little and little over the whole feet, eat off Toes, and over-run the whole Body of some idle Negro's. He saith, he hath seen 40 pickt out of a Child's foot. 