LXXXVI. Account of the Earthquake, felt February 18, along the Coast of England, between Margate and Dover, in a Letter from Mr. Samuel Warren, Supervisor of Excise, to John Windham Bowyer, Esq; one of his Majesty's Commissioners of Excise. Communicated by John Pringle, M. D. F. R. S. Honourable Sir, PUrsuant to an order from Mr. Noble, bearing date the 11th instant, I have made inquiry, as therein directed, relating to a shock of an earthquake, which happened on Wednesday the 18th of February last; and find, that at Margate it was felt by Mr. Valentine Jewel and his family just before eight o'clock in the morning: they being Read April 1, 1756. [580] being all in their beds, each person observed their respective beds to have a sudden shock, as quick as thought itself. Mr. Barber, who lives at the king'shead-inn, and next door to Mr. Jewell, at the same time, felt his bed to tremble for the space of half a minute; his wife (who was in child-bed at that time) and her nurse felt the like trembling in another room, and Mr. Barber's mother (who keeps the said inn) saw the door of her room to shake, which she thought then to have caused by the wind; and in like manner it was felt by many other people in Margate. I cannot find, that it was felt by any person in Ramsgate. At Deal, Dr. St. Leger, being in bed on the 18th, a little before eight o'clock in the morning, felt the bed to shake under him, which he supposed to be a sudden gust of wind, till he heard other people talk of an earthquake, which they then imagined to be the cause of their beds shaking. At Dover, on the above day and hour, five or six people felt their beds to shake under them; but I can't find they thought any thing of an earthquake 'till they saw it in the public papers. At Sandwich the Rev. Mr. Bunce saith, that on the above day and about the same hour, he being in bed felt two shocks as quick as possible one after the other; and he further saith, that had he not read the several accounts of earthquakes abroad, he should not have taken the shock to have been of that kind. In like manner it was felt by sundry persons in Sandwich. For my own part I felt nothing of it, nor can I hear, that it was felt by any person, that was out of bed, save at Sandwich, one Mr. Thomas Hayward, who was sitting in his chair, felt the same to shake [581] shake twice; and a maid servant of Mr. Jervas Hayward, of this town, being ill, and sitting in a chair, she felt it shake twice. Mrs. Sims and her daughter at Canterbury felt their beds shake on the above day and hour. The morning, at that time, was calm, but very hazy; soon after we had a very great tempest. If any thing further shall occur worth notice, I will give your honour an impartial account thereof. I am, Honourable Sir, Your most dutiful Sandwich, March 25, 1756. humble servant, Samuel Warren. LXXXVII. 