j 46 1 III On the Nature and Construction of the Sun andfixed Stars. BY WILLIAM HERSCHEL, LL.D. F. R. S. *Read December i'S, i794. AMONG the celestial bodies the sun is certainly the first which should attract our notice. It is a fountain of light that illuminates the world ! it is the cause of that heat which maintains the productive power-of nature, and makes the earth a fit habitation for man ! it is the central body of the planetary system; and what renders a knowledge of its nature still more interesting to us is, that the numberless stars which compose the universe, appear, by the strictest analogy, to be similar bodies. Their innate light is so intense, that it reaches the eye of the observer from the remotest regions of space, and forcibly claims his notice. Now,, if -we are :convinced that an inquiry into the nature and pro~perties of the sun is highly worthy of our notice, we -mTiay also with great satisfaction reflect on the considerable progress that has already been made in our knowledge of this eminent body. It would require a long detail to enumerate all the various discoveries which have been made on this subject; I shall, therefore, content myself with giving only the most .capital of them. Sir IsAAC NEWTON has shewn that the sun, by its attractive power, retains the planets of our system in their orbits. He Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction, &c.: 47 has also pointed out the method whereby the quantity of matter it contains may be accurately determined. Dr. BRADLEY has assigned the velocity of the solar light with a degree of precision exceeding our utmost expectation. GALILEO, SCHEINER, HEVELIUS, CASSINI, and others, have ascertained the rotation of the sun upon its axis, and determined the position of its equator. By means of the transit of Venus over the disc of the sun, out mathematicians have calculated its distance from the earth; its real diameter and magnitude; the density of the matter of which it is composed and the faIl of heavy bodies on its surface. From the particulars here enumerated, it is sufficiently obvious, that we have already a very clear idea of the vast importance, and powerful influence of the sun on its planetary system. And if we add to this the beneficent effects we feel on this globe from the diffusion of the solar rays; and consider that, by well traced analogies, the same effects have been proved to take place on other planets of this system ; I should not wonder if we were induced to think that nothing remained to be added in order to complete our knowledge: and yet it will not be difficult to-shlew that we are still very ignorant, at least with regard to the internal construction of the sun. The various conjectureswhich have been formed on this subject, are evident marks of the uncertainty under which we have hitherto laboured. The dark spots in" the sun, for instance, have been supposed, to be solid bodies revolving very near its surface. They have been conjectured to be the smoke of volcanoes, or the scum floating upon an ocean of fluid matter. They have also been taken for clouds. They were explained to be opaque masses, 48 Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction swimming in the fluid matter of the sun; dipping down occasionally. It has been supposed that a fiery liquid surrounded the sun, and that, by its ebbing and flowing, the highest parts of it were occasionally uncovered, and appeared under the shape of dark spots ; and that, by the return of this fiery liI quid, they were again covered, and in that manner successively assumed different phases. The stun itself has been called a globe of fire, though perhaps metaphorically. The waste it would undergo by a gradual consumption, on the supposition of its being ignited, has been ingeniously calculated. And in the same -point of view its immense power of heating the bodies of such comets as draw very near to it has' been assigned. The bright spots, or faculx, have been called clouds of light, and luminous vapours. The light of the suit itself has been supposed to be directly invisible, and not to be perceived unless by reflection; though the proofs, which are brought in support of that opinion, seem to me to amount to no more than, what is sufficiently evident, that we cannot see when rays of light do not enter the eye. But it is time to profit by the many valuable observations that we are now in possession of. A list of successive eminent astronomers may be named, from GALILEO down to the present time; who have furnished us with materials for examixation. In supporting the ideas I shall-'propose in this paper, with regard to the physical construction of the sun, I have availed myself of the labours of all these astronomers, but have been induced thereto only by my own actual observation of the solar phaxnomena; which, besides verifying those particulars that had been already observed, gave me such views of the of the Sun andfixed Stars; 49 solar regions as led to the foundation of a very rational system. For, having the -advantage of former observations, my latest reviews of the body of the sun were immediately directed to the most essential points; and the work was by this means facilitated, and contracted into a pretty narrow compass. The following is a short extract of my observations on the sun, to which I have joined the consequences I now believe myself entitled to draw from them. When all the reasonings -on the several phaenomena are put together, and a few additional arguments, taken from analogy, which I shall also add, are properly con-sidered it will be found that a general conclusion may be made which seems to throw a considerable light upon our present subject.In the year 1779, therewas a spot on the sun which was large enough to be seen with the naked eye. -By; a view of it with a 7-feet reflector, charged with a very high power, it appeared to be divided into two parts. The largest of the two, on the l9th of April, measured A' 8",o6 in diameter; which is equal, in length, to more than ?1 thousand miles. Both together must certainly havre extended above 50 thousand. The idea of its being occasioned by a volcanic explosion, violently driving away a fiery fluid, which on its return would gradually fill up the vacancy, and thus restore the sun, in that place, to its former splendour, ought to be rejected on many accounts., To mention only one, the great extent of the spot is very unfavourable to that' supposition. Indeed a much less violent and less pernicious cause may be assigned', to account for. all the appearances of the spot. When we see a dark belt near the equator of the planet Jupiter, we do not recur to earthquakes and volcanoes for its origin. An atmosphere, with MDCCXCV. L so Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction its n-atura.l changes, will explain such belts. Our spot in the sun may be accounted for on the same principles. The earth is surrounded by an atmosphere, composed of various elastic fluids-. The sun also has its atmosphere, and if some of the fluids which enter into its composition should be of a shining brilliancy, in the manner that will be explained hereafter, while others are merely -transparent, any temporary cause which may remove the lucid fluid will permit us ^to see the body of the sunf through the transparent ones. If-an observer .were placed on the -moon,,-he w-ould see the solid body of our -earth. only in those places.whre the transparent fluids of our atmosphere would permit hbim. In others, the o6paque vapoturs would reflect the light-of the sun, without permitting his vieW to penetrate to -the suvface oft ou0 r Jgbbe, lie would probably also find that our planaet had-occasionally some shiing fluids in its atmosphere; vas, notuinlikely, somte of-our northern lights might nt escape his notice, if they happened in the tnenlightenled part of the earth, and were teenr by him in his long dark night. Nay, we have pretty good reason: to believe, that probably all the planets -emit. light in some degree; for the illumnination which remains on the moon in a total eclipse: cannot be entirely ascribed to the light which may reach it by the r-e1fraction of the earth's atmosphere. For -instance in the eclipse of-the moon, which happened October <2q, 1790, the rays -of the sun refracted by the atmosphere of 'the earth towards the moon, admitting the mean horizontal refraction to be go' -5o",8, would meet in a focus above 189 thousand miles -beyond the moon,; so that consequently there could be no illumination from rays refracted by our atmosphere. It is, however, not improbable, that about the polar regions of the of the Sun andfixed Stars. A earth there may be refraction enough to bring some of the solar rays to a shorter focus. The distance of the moon at the time of the eclipse would require a refraction of 54 6" equal to its horizontal parallax at that time, to bring them to a focus so as to throw light on the moon. The unenlightened part of the planet Venus has also been seen by different persons, and not having a satellite, those regions that are turned from the sun cannot possibly shine by a borrowed light; so that this faint illumination must denote some phosphoric quality of the atmosphere of Venus. In the instance of our large spot on the sun, I concluded from appearances that I viewed the real solid body of the sun itself, of which we rarely see more than its shining atmosphere. In the year 1783, I observed a fine large spot, and followed it up to the edge of the sun's limb. Here I took notice that the spot was plainly depressed below the surface of the sun; and 'that it had very broad shelving sides. I also suspected ,some part, at least, of the shelving sides to be elevated above the surface of the sun; and observed that, contrary to what usually happens, the margin of that side of the spot, which was farthest from the limb, was the broadest. The luminous shelving sides of a spot may be explained by a gentle and gradual removal of the shining fluid, which permits us to see the globe of the sun. As to the uncommon appearance ofthe broadest -margin being on that side of the spot which was farthest from the limb when the spot came near the edge of it,' we may surmnise that the sun has inequalities on its surface, which may possibly be the cause of it. For, when mountainous countries are exposed, if it should chance that the highest parts of the landscape are situated so as to be near that H2 Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction side of the margin, or penumbra of thespot, which is towards the limb, it may partly intercept our view of it, when the spot is seen very obliquely. This would require elevations at least five or six hundred miles high but considering the great attraction exerted by the sun upon bodies at its surface, and the slow revolution it has upon its axis, we may readily admit inequalities to that amount. From the centrifugal force at the sun 's equator, and the weight of bodies at its surface, I compute that the power of throwing down a mountain by the exertion of the former, balanced by the superior force of keeping it in its situation of the, latter, is near six and a half times less On the sun than on our equatorial regions ; and as an elevation similar to one of three miles on the earth would not be less than g34 miles on the sun, there can be no doubt but that a mountain much higher would stand very firmly. The little density of the solar body seems also to be in favour of the height of its mountains ; for, ceteris paribus, dense bodies will sooner come to their level than rare ones. The difference il1 the vanishing of the shelving side, instead of explaining it by mountains, may also, and perhaps more satisfactorily, be accounted -for from the real difference of the extent, the arrangement, the height, and the intensity of the shining fluid', added to the occasional changes that may happen in these particulars, during the time in which the spot approaches to the edge of the disc. However, by admitting large mountains on the surface of the sun, we shall account for the different opinions of two eminent astronomers one of whom believed the spots depressed below the sun, while the other supposed them ele.vated above it.For it is not improbable that some of the solar mountains may be high enough occasionally to project above of the Sun and fixed Stars. at the shining elastic fluid, when, by some agitation or other cause, it is not of the usual height; and this opinion is much, strengthened by the return of some remarkable spots, which served CASSINI to ascertain the period of the sun's rotation. A very high country, or chain of mountains, may oftener become visible, by, the removal of the obstructing fluid, than -the lower regions,on account of its not being so deeply covered with it. In the year 1791, I examined a large spot in the sun,, and found it evidently depressed below the level of the surface; about the dark part was a broad margin, or plane of consi-. derable extent, less bright than the sun, and also lower than its surface. This plane seemed to rise, with shelving sides, up to the place where it joined the level of the surface. In confirmation of these appearances, I carefully remarked that the disc of the sun was visibly convex; and the reason of my attention to this particular, was my being already long ac quainted with a certain optical deception, that takes place now and then when we view the moon which isv that all the elevated spots on its surface will seiem. to be cavities, and all cavities will assume the shape of mountains. But then, at the same time the moon, instead of having the convex appearance of a globe, will seem to be a large concave portion of an hollow sphere. As soon as, by the force of imagination, you drive away the fallacious appearance of a concave moon, you restore the mountains to their protuberance, and sink the cavities again below thelevel of the surface. Now, when I saw the spot lower than the shining matter of the sun, and an extended plane, also depressed, with shelving sides rising up to the level, I also found that the sun was convex, and appeared 4i 54 Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction its natural globular state. Hence I conclude that there could be no deception in those appearances. How very ill would this observation agree with the ideas of solid bodies bobbing up and down in a fiery liquid ? with the smoke of volcanoes, or scum upon an ocean ? And how easily it is explained upon our foregoing theory. The removal of the shining atmosphere, which permits us to see the, sun, must naturally be attended with a gradual diminution on its borders; an instance of a similar kind we have daily before us, when through the opening of a cloud we see the sky, which generally is attended by a surrounding haziness of some short extent; and seldom transits, from a perfect clearness, at once to the greatest obscurity.Aug. 26, 1792. I examined the sun with several powers, from 90 to too. It appears evidently that the black spots are the opaque ground, or body of the sun; and that the luminous part is an atmosphere, which, being interrupted or broken, gives us a transient glimpse of the sun itself. My 7-feet re, flector, which is in high perfection, represents the spots, as it always used to do, much depressed below the surface of the luminous part. Sept. 2, i792. I saw two spots in the sun with the naked eye. In the telescope I found they were clusters of spots, with many scattered ones besides. Every one of them was certainly below the surface of the luminous disc. Sept. 8, 1792.-D Having made a small speculum,a merely brought to a perfect figure upon hones, without polish, I found, that by stifling a great part of the solar rays, my object speculum would bear a greater aperture; and thus enabled me to see with more comfort, and less danger. The surface of of the Sun andfixed Stars. the sun was unequal; many parts of it being elevated, and others depressed. This Nisi here to be understood of the shining surface only, as the real body of the suncan probably be seldom seen, otherwise than in its black spots. It may not be impossible, as light is a transparent fluid, that the sun's real surface also may now and then be perceived; as we see the shape of the wick of a candle through its flame, or the contents of a furnace in the midst of the brightest glare of it; but this, I should suppose, will only happen where the lucid matterof the sun is not very accumulated Sept. 9, 1792. I found one of the dark spots in the sun drawn pretty near the preceding edge. In its neighbourhood I saw a great number of elevated bright places:, making various figuresI shall call them facula, with HEVELIUS; but without assigning to this term -any other meaning than what it willhereafter appear ought to be given to it. I see these facuhe extended, on the preceding side, over about one-sixth part of the sun; but so far from resembling torches, they appear to me like the shrivelled elevations upon a dried apple, extended in length, and most of them are joined together, making waves, or waving lines. By some good views in the afternoon, I find that the rest of the surface of the sun does not contain any facula, except a few on the following, and equatorial part of the sun. Towards the north and south I see no faculae there is all over the sun a great unevenness in the surface, which has the appearance of a mixture of small points of an unequal light; but they are evidently an unevenness or roughness of high and low parts. Sept. lax, 1792. The facule, in the preceding part of the 56 Dr. HERSCHEL Onthe Nature and Construction sun, are much gone out of the disc, and those in the following are come on. A dark spot also is come on with them. Sept. 13, 1 792. There are a great number of faculae on the equatorial part of the sun, towards the preceding and following parts. I cannot see any towards the poles; but a roughness is visible every where. Sept. i6, 1792. The sun contains many large faculae, on the following side of its equator, and also several on the preceding side. I perceive none about the poles. They seem generally to accompany the spots, and probably, as the faculx certainly are elevations, a great number of them may occasion neighbouring depressions: that is to say, dark spots. The faculae being elevations, very satisfactorily explains the reason why they disappear towards the middle of the sun, and re-appear on; the other margin; for, about the place where we lose them, they begin to be edge-ways to our view; and if between the faculae should lie dark spots, they will most frequently break out in the middle of the sun, because they are no longer covered by the side views of these facule. Sept. 22, 1792. There are not many facula in the sun, and but few spots; the whole disc, however, is very much marked with roughness, like an orange. Some of the lowest parts of the inequalities are blackish. Sept. 23, 1792. The following side of the sun contains many facule, near the limb. They take up an arch of about So degrees. There are, likewise, some on the preceding side. The north and squth is rough as usual ; but differently disposed. The faculae are ridges of elevations above the rough surface. Feb. 23, 1794. By an experiment I have just now tried, I find it confirmed that the sun cannot be so distinctly viewed of the Sun and fixed Stars. 57 with a small aperture and faint darkening glasses, as with a large aperture and stronger ones; this latter is the method I always use. One of the black spots on the preceding margin, which was greatly below the surface of the sun, had, next to it, a protuberant lump of shining matter, a little brighter than the rest of the sun. About all the spots, the shining matter seems to have been disturbed; and is uneven, lumpy, and zig-zagged in an irregular manner. I call the spots black, not that they are entirely so, but merely to distinguish them ; for there is not one of them,^ to-day, which is not partly, or entirely, covered over with whitish and unequally bright nebulosity, or cloudiness. This,in many of them, comes near to an extinction of the spot; and in others, seems to bring on a subdivision. Sept 28, 1794. There is a dark spot in the sun on the following side. It is certainly depressed below the shining atmosphere, and has shelving sides of shining matter, which rise up higher than the general surface, and are brightest at the top. The preceding shelving side is rendered almost invisible, by the overhanging of the preceding elevations; while the following is very well exposed:the spot being apparently such in figure as denotes a circular form, viewed in an oblique direction. Near the following margin are many bright elevations, close to visible depressions. The depressed parts are less bright than the common surface. The penumbra, as it is called, about this spot, is a consiMDCCXCV. I ,58 Dr. HERSCHEL on the 'Nature and Construction derable plane, of less brightness than the common surface, and seems. to be as much depressed below that surface as the spot is below the plane. Hence, if the brightness of the sun is occasioned by the lucid atmosphere, the intensity of the brightness. must be less where it is depressed; for light, being transparent, must be the more intense the more it is deep. Oct. 12, 1794. The whole surface of the sun is diversified by inequality in the elevation of the shining atmosphere. The lowest parts are every where darkest; and every little pit has the appearance of a more' or less dark spot. A dark spot, which is on the preceding side, is surrounded by very great inequalities in the elevation of the lucid atmosphere; and its depression below the same is bounded by an immediate rising of very bright light. Oct. 13, 1794. The spot in the sun, I observed yesterday is drawn so near the margin that the elevated side of the fob. lowing part of it hides all the black ground, and still leaves the cavity visible, so that the depression of the black spots, and the elevation of the facule, are equally evident. It will' now be easy to bring the result of these observations into a very narrow compass. That the sun has -a very extensive atmosphere cannot be doubted ;and that thisatmosphere consists of various elastic fluids, that are more or less lucid and transparent, and of which the lucid one is that which furnishes us with light, seems also to be -fully established by all, the phenomena of its spots, of the facuw, -and of the lucid surface itself. There is no kind of Variety in these appearances of the Sut4anldfitxed Stars. 59 but what may be-accounted for with the greatest facility, from the continual agitations which we may easily canceive must take place in the regions of such extensive elastic fluids. It will be, lecessary, however, to be a little more particular, as to the manner in which! I suppose the lucid fluid of the sun to be generated in its atmosphere. An an'alogy that may be drawn from the generation of clouds in our own atmosphere. seems to be a very proper one, and full of instruction. Our clouds are probably decompositions of some-of the elastic fluids of the atmosphere itself, when such natural causes, as in this grand chemical laboratory are generally at work, act upon them ; we may therefore admit that in the very extensive atmosphere of the sun, from causes of the same nature, similar phaoeomena will take place; but with this difference, that, the continual and very extensive decompositions of the elastic fluids of the sun, are of a phosphoricnature, and attended with lucid appearances, by giving out light. If it should be objected, that such violent and unremitting decompositions would exhaust the sun, we may recur, again to our analogy, which will furnish us with the following reflections. The extent of our own atmosphere, we see, is still preserved, notwithstanding the copious decompositions of its fluids, in clouds and falling rain; in flashes of lightning, in meteors, and other luminous phaenomena; because there are fresh supplies of elastic vapours, continually ascending -to make good the waste occasioned by those decompositions. But it may be urged, that the case with the decomposition of the elastic fluids in the solar atmosphere would be very different, since light is emitted, and does not return to the sun, as clouds do to the earth when they descend in showers of rain. To 6do Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction which I answer, that in the decomposition of .phosphoric fluids every other ingredient but light may also return to the body of the sun. And that the emission of light. must waste -the .sun, is not a difficulty that can be opposed to our hypothesis. ::For as it is an evident fact that the sun does emit light, the same objection, if it could be one, would equally militate against every other assignable way to account for the phaenomenona. There -are moreover considerations that may lessen the pres-t sure of this alleged difficulty. We know, the exceeding subtilty of light to be such, that in ages of time its emanation from the sun -cannot very sensibly lessen the size of this great .body. To this may be added, that, very possibly, there may also be ways of restoration to compensate for what is lost by the emission of light; though the manner in which this can be brought about should not appear to us. Many of the operations of nature are carried oif in her great laboratory, which we cannot comprehend but now and then we see some of the tools with which she is at work. We need not wonder that their construction should be so singular as to induce us to confess our ignorance of the method of employing them-, but we may rest assured that they are not a mere lisus naturw. I allude to thie great number of small telescopic comets that hiave been observed; and to' the, far greater number still that are probably much too small for being noticed-by bur most diligent searchers after them. Those six, for instance,. which my sister ha~sfdiscovered, I can froihm-examination affirm had not the least. appearance of any solid nucleus, andseemed to be mere collections of vapours condensed about a' centre. Five more, thatI have also observed, were nearly of ,thie .same. nature. of the Sun and fixed Stars. 6i This throws a mystery over their destination, which seems to place them in the allegorical view of tools, probably designed for somesalutary. purposes to be wrought by -them ; and, whether the restoration ..of what is lost to the sun bythe emission of light,. the possibility-of which we have been mentioning above, mnay not be one of these purposes, I shall. not presume to determine. The motion of the comet discovered by Mr. MESSIER in June, 177.o, plainly indicated how much its orbit wasg liable to be changed,by the perturbations of the planets; from which, and the little agreement that can be found between the elements of the orbits of all the comets that have been observed, it appears clearly that they may be directed to carry their salutary influence to any part of the heavens. My hypothesis, however, as before observed, does not lay me under any obligation to explain how the sun can sustain the waste of light, nor to shew that it will sustain it for ever; and I should also remark that, as in the analogy of generating clouds I merely allude to their production as. owing to a decomposition of some of the elastic fluids of our atmosphere, that analogy, which firmly rests upon the fact, will not be less to my purpose to wvhatever cause these clouds may owe their origin. It is the same with the lucid clouds, if I mayso call them, of the sun. rThey plainly exist, because we see themr; the manner of their being generated may remain an hypothesis; and mine, till a better can be proposed, may stand good; but whether it does or not, the consequences I am going to draw from what has been said will not be affected by it. Before I proceed, I shall only point out, that according to the above theory, a dark spot in the sun is a place in its atmosphere which happens to be free from luminous decomposi69 Dr. HERSCcUEL on the Nature .and Canstruction tions,; a-nd that facula are, on the -contrary, -more copiousriixtutres of such fluids as decompose each other. The pe.numbra which attends the spots% being generally depressed more or less. to about half way between the solid body ofthe sun and: the upper part of those regions in which luminous de-" compositions take place, must of course be fainter than other parts. No spot favourable for taking measures having lately been on the sun,I can only judge, fromm former appearances, that the regions in which the luminous solar clouds are formed, adding thereto the elevation of the faculae, cannot be less than 1843, nor much. more than 2765 miles in depth. It is true that in our atmosphere the extent of the clouds is limited to was very narrow compass; but we ought rather to compare the solar ones to the luminous decompositions which take place in our aurora borealis, or luminous arches, which extend much farther than the cloudy regions. The density of the luminous solar clouds) though very great, may not be exceedingly more so than that of our aurora borealis. For, if we consider what would be the brilliancy of a space two or three thousand miles deep, filledwith such corruscations as we see now and then in our atmosphere, their apparent intensity, when viewed at the distance of the sun, might not be much inferior to that of the lucid solar fluid. From the lumin ous atmosphee of the sun I proceed to its opaque body, which by calculation from the pdwer it exerts upon the planets we know to be of great solidity; and from the phbnomena of the dark spots, many of which, probably on account of their high situations, have been repeatedly seen, and otherwise denote inequalities in their level, we surmise that its surface is diversified with mountains and vallies. of the Sun andftxed, Stars. What has been said enablesus to come to some very important conclusions, by remarking, that this way of considering the sun and its atmosphere, removes the great dissimilarity we have hitherto been used to find between its condition and that of the rest of the great bodies of the solar ysstem. The sun, viewed in this light, appears to be nothing else than a very eminent, large, and lucidplanet, evidently the first, or in strictness of speaking, the only primary one of our system; all others being trulysecondary to it. I lts similarity to the other globes of the solar system with regard to its solidity, its atmosphere, and its diversified surface; the rotation upon its axis, andl the fall of heavy bodies, leads us on to suppose that it is most-probably also inhabited, like the rest of the planets, by beings whose organs are adapted to the peculiar circumstances of-that vast globe. -Whatever fanciful poets might say, in making the .sun the abode of blessed spirits, or angry moralists devise, ini pointing it out as a fit place for the punishment of the wickedi, it does not appear that they had any other foundation for their assers tions than mere opinion and vague surmise; but now I think myself authorized, upon, astronomical principles, to propose the sun as an inhabitable world, and am persuaded that-the foregoing observations, with the conclusions I have drawn from them, arefully sufficient to answer every objection that may be made against it. It may,however, not be amiss to remove a certain difficulty, which arises from the effect of the sun's rays upon our globe. The heat which is here, at the distance of 9,5 millions of miles, produced by these rays, is so considerable, that it may be objected, that the surface of the globe of the sun itself must be scorched up beyond all conception. 64 Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction Thismay be very substantially answered by many proofs drawn from natural -philosophy, which shew that heat is produced by the -sun's rays only whenthey act -upon a calorific medium;,they are the cause of the production of heat, by tiniting with the matter of fire, which is contained in the substances that are heated: as the collision of flint and steel will inflame a magazine of gunpowder, by putting all the latent fire it contains into action. But an instance or two of the manner in which the solar rays produce their effect, will bring this home to our most common experience. On the tops of mountains of a sufficient height, at an altitude where clouds can very seldom reach, to shelter them from the direct rays of the sun, we always find regions of ice and. snow. Now if the solar rays themselves: conveyed all the heat we find on this globe, it ought to be hottest where their course is least interrupted. Again, our aeronauts all confirm the coldness of the upper regions of the atmosphere; and since, therefore, even on our earth the heat of any situation depends upon the aptness of the-.mediumto yield to the impression of the solar rays, we have onlyto admit, that on the sun itself, the elastic fluids composing its atmosphere, and the matter, on its surface, are of such a nature as not to be capable of any excessive affection from its own rays; and, indeed, this seemsto be proved by the copious emission of them for if the elastic fluids of the atmosphere, or the matter contained on the surface of the sun, were of such a nature as to admit of an easy, chemical combination with its rays, their emission would be much impeded. Another well known fact is, that the solar, focus of the largest lens, thrown into the air, xvill occasionno sensible heat in the place where it has been kept -for a considerable -of the Sun andfixed Stars. 65 time, although its power of exciting combustion, when proper bodies are exposed, should be sufficient to fuse the most refractory substances.* It will not be necessary to mention other objections, as I can think of none that may be made, but what a proper consideration of the foregoing observations will easily remove; such as may be urged from the dissimilarity between the luminous atmosphere of the sun and that of our globe will be touched upon hereafter, when I consider the objections that may be assigned against the moon's being an inhabitable satellite. I shall now endeavour, by analogical reasonings, to support the ideas I have suggested concerning the construction and purposes of the sun; in order to which, it will be necessary to begin with such arguments as the nature of the case will admit, to shew that our moon is probably inhabited. This satellite is of all the heavenly bodies the nearest, and therefore most within the reach of our telescopes. Accordingly we find,' by repeated inspection, that we can with perfect confidence give the following account of it. It is a secondary planet, of a considerable' size; the surface of which is diversified, like that of the earth, by mountains and vallies. Its situation, with respect to the sun, is much like that of the earth; and, by a rotation on its axis, it enjoys an agreeable variety of seasons, and of day and night. To the moon, our globe will appear to be a very capital satellite.;* The subject of light and heat has been very ably discussed by Mr. DE Luc, in his excellent work, Ide'es sur la M6teorologie, Tome I. part z, chap. 2, section 2, De la Nature du Feu; and Tome II. part 3, chap. 6, section i, Des Rapports de la Lumiere avec la Cbaleur dans l'Atmosphere.aDCCXCV. K 66 Dr.; HERsc8IEL on tbe Nature and Construction undergoing thesame -regular changes of illuminations as the moon does to the earth., The sun the planets, and the starry constellations of the heavens, will rise and set there as they do here; and heavy bodies will fall on the moon as they do on the earth. There seems only to be wanting, in order to comrplete the analogy that it should be inhabited like theearth. To this0 -it may be objected, that we perceive no large seas in the moon; that its atmosphere (the existence of which has even been doubted by many) is extremely rare, and unfit fr the purposes of animal life;, that its climates, its seasons, and the length-of its days, totally differ from ours; that without dense clouds (which the moon has not), there can -be no rain, perhaps no rivers, no lakes. In short that, notwithstanding the similarity which has been pointed out, thereseems to be a decided difference in the two planets we have compared. MY answer to this will be, that that very difference which is now objected, will rather strengthen the force of my argument than lessen its value: we find, even upon our globe; that there is the most striking difference in the situationsof the creatures that live upon it. While man walks up on the ground, the birds fly in the air, and fishes swim in water;' we can certainly not object to the conveniences afforded by the moon, if those that are to Inhabit its regions are fitted to their conditions as well as we on this globe are to ours. An absolute, or total samneness, seems rather to denote imperfections, such as nature never exposes to our view; and, on this account, I believe the analogies that have been mentioned fully sufficient to establish the high probability of the moon's being inhabited like the earth. To proceed, we will now suppose an inhabitant of the moon, of the Sun and fixed Stars. 7 whQ hasnot properly considered such analogical reasonings as might induce him to surmise that our earth is inhabited, were to give it as his opinion that the use of that great body, whichhe sees in his neighbourhood, is to carry about his little globe, that it may be properly exposed to the light of the; sun, so as to enjoy an agreeable and useful variety of illumination, as well-as to give it light by reflection from the sun, when direct daylight cannot be had. Suppose also that the inhabitants. of the satellites of Jupiter, Saturn, and the Georgian planet, were to look upon the primary ones, to which they belong, as mere attractive centres, to keep together their orbits, to direct their revolution round the sun, and to supply them with reflected light in the absence of direct illumination. Ought we not to condemn their ignorance, as proceeding from w want of attention and proper reflection ? It is very true that the earth, and those other planets that have satellites about them, perform all the offices that have been named, for the inhabitants of these little globes; but to us, who live upon one of these planets, their reasonings cannot but appear very defective; when we see what a magnificent dwelling place the earth affords to numberless intelligent beings. These considerations ought to make the inhabitants of the planets wiser than we have supposed those of their satellites to be. We surely ought not, like them, to say "the sun (that "immense globe, whose body would much more than fill the "whole orbit of the moon) is merely an attractive centre to "us." From experience we can affirm, that the performance of the most salutary offices to inferior planets, is not inconsistent with the dignity of superior purposes; and, in consequence of such; analogical reasonings, assisted by telescopic K2 68 Dr. HERSCHEL on the Nature and Construction views, which plainly favour the same opinion, we need not hesitate to admit that the sun is richly stored with inhabitants. This way of considering the sun is of the utmost importance in its consequences. That stars are suns can hardly adm it of a doubt. Their immense distance would perfectly exclude them from our view, if the light they send us were not of the solar kind. Besides, the analogy may be traced much farther. The sun turns on its axis. So does the star Algol. So do the stars called P Lyra, S Cephei, V Antinoi, o Ceti, and many more; most probably all. From what other cause can we so probably account for their periodical changes.? Again, our sun has spots on its surface. So has the star Algol; and so have the stars already named and probably every star in the heavens. On our sun these spots are Changeable. So they are on the star o Ceti; as evidently appears from the irregularity of its changeable lustre, which is often broken in upon by accidental changes, while the general period continues unaltered. The same little deviations have been observed in other periodical stars, and ought to be ascribed to the same cause. But if stars are suns, and suns are inhabitable, we see at once what an extensive field for animation opens itself to our view. It is true that analogy may induce us to conclude, that since stars appear to be 'suns, and suns, according to the common opinion, are bodies that serve to enlighten, warm, and sustain a system of planets, we may have an idea of numberless globes that serve for the habitation of living creatures. But if these suns themselves are primary planets, we may see some thousands of them with our own eyes; and millions by the help of telescopes; when at the same time, the same analogical of the Sun and fixed Stars. 69 reasonings still remainsin full force, with regard to the planets which these suns may :support. In this place I may, however take -notice that, from other considerations the idea of suns or stars being merely the supporters of systems of planets is not absolutely to be admitted as a general one. Among the great number of very compressed clusters of stars, I have given in my catalogues, there are some which open a different view of the heavens to us. The stars in them are so very close together, that, notwithstanding. the great distance at which we may suppose the cluster itself to be, it will hardly be possible to assign any sufficient mutual distance to the stars composing the cluster, to leave room for crowding in those planets, for whose support these stars have -been, or might be, supposed to exist. It should seem, therefore, highly probable that they exist for themselves; and are, in fact, only very capital, lucid, primary planets, connected together in one great system: of mutual support. As in this argument I do not proceed upon conjectures, but have actual observations in view, I shall mention an instance in the clusters, No. 26, 28, and 35, VI. class, of my catalogue of nebula, and clusters of stars. (See Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXIX. Part II P. 251.) The stars in them are so crowded, that I cannot conjecture them to be at a greater apparent distance from each other than five seconds ; even after a proper allowance for such stars, as on a supposition of a globular form of the cluster, will interfere with one another, has been made. Now, if we would leave as much room between each of these stars as there is between the sun land Sirius, we must place these clusters 42104 times as far from us as that star is from the sun. But-in order to bring down the lustre of Sirius to Dr. HERSCHEL on the Natureand Construction that of an equal star placed, at such a -distance, I ought to reduce the aperture of my ?o-feet telescope to less tha the twoand-twenty hundredth part of an inch; when certainly I could no -longer expect to see any star at all. ;The same remark may be made, with regard to the number of very close double stars-; whose apparent diameters being alike, and not very small, do not indicate any very great mutual distance. From which, however, must be deducted all those where the different distances may be compensated by the real difference in their respective magnitudes. To what has been said may be added, that in some parts of the milky way, where yet the stars are not very small, they are so crowded, that in the year 1792, Aug. 22 1 found by the gages that, in 41 minutes of time, no less than 258 thousand of them had passed through the field of view of my telescope.* It seems, therefore, upon the whole not improbable that, in * The star-gages ran thus: From Igh 35' to igh 51' 6oo stars in the field 19 51 -19 57 440 19 57-20 12 360 20 12-:0zo i6 z6o The breadth of the sweep was ,o 35', the diameter of -the field is', and the mean polar distance 730 +'. Then let F, be the diameter of the field of view, S. the number of stars in each field, B, the breadth of the sweep, plus F, T, the length of thesweep expressed in minutes of space, A, the; sine of the mean polar distance, C, the constantfraction ,7854, and the stars in these four successive short sweeps will be found by the expression BTSp ]F* C equal to 133095. 36601. 74866. 14419. or in all 258981. of the Sun andSfxed Stars. 7' many cases, stars are united insuch close ,systems as not to leave much room for the orbits of planets, or comets 7 and that consequently, upon this account also,. many stars, unless we would make them -mere uiseless brilliant points, may themselves be-lucid planets, perhaps unattended-by satellites. POSTSC RI PT. The following observations, which were made with an improved apparatus, and under the most favourable circumstances, should be added to those which have been given. They are decisive with regard to one of the conditions of the lucid imatter of the sun.' Nov. 26, 1794 Eight spots in the sun, and several subdi visions of them, are all equally depressed. The sun is mottled every where. The mottled appearance of the sun is owing to an inequality in the level of the surface. The sun is equally mottled at its poles and at its equator;? but the mottled appearances may be seenbetter about the middle of the disc than towards the circumference, on account of the sun's spherical form. The unevenness arising from the elevation and depression of the mottled appearance on the surface of the sun, seems, in -many places, to amount to as much, or to nearly as much as the depression of the penumbrae of the spots below the upper part of the shining substance; without including faculae, which are protuberant. The lucid substance of the sun is neither a liquid, nor an Dr.. HEnscEL on the Nature, &c. elastic fluid;, as is evident from its not instantly fillingup the cavities of the spots, and of the unevenness of the mottled parts. It ex' ts, therefore, in, the manner of lucid clouds swimming in the transparent atmosphere of the sun or ra.ther, of luminous decompositions taking place within that atnjosphere. 