(193) Numb. 109. P H I L O S O P H I C A L T R A N S A C T I O N S. Decemb. 14. 1674. The C O N T E N T S. A Relation of a very odd kind of Bleeding in a little Child. Some Queries and Answers relating to an Accompt given in Numb. 54. of a strange Lake in Carniola, A Narrative of some Observations made upon several Voyages, undertaken to find a North-East Passage; together with Instructions given by the DutchEast-India Company for the discovery of the famous Land of Jesso near Japan. ARelation about a North-West Passage. An Accompt of threeBooks.I.ADiscourse made before the Royal Society, Novemb. 26. 1674. concerning the Use of DUPLICATE PROPORTION, in sundry important Particulars,together with aNewHypothesis of ELASTIQUE or Springy Motions, By Sr. William Petty, Knight, Fellow of the said Society. II. The second Book of the ART of METTALS, &c. written in Spanish by Alonso Barbara, and English't by the late Earl of Sandwich. III. Animadversions on the First part of the MACHINA COELESTIS of the deservedly famous Johannes Hevelius; together with an Explication of some Instruments; made by Rob. Hook, Geom. Prof. in Gresh. Coll. and Fellow of the R. Society. A Relation sent Novemb. 16. 1674. from very credible a dingenious Person, Mr. Samuel du Gard, Rector of Forton in Shropshire, to Dr. Ra. Bathurst Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, and by him communicated to a Friend of his in London; concerning a strange kind of Bleeding in a little child. I Am bold to give you a Narration of the Distemper of a Child at Littleshall, a little Town in Shropshire, because it is very unusual, (if ever the like hath been heard by you before;) and also because I have certain evidence of the thing. TheChild was aquarterof a year old,when it was taken with a Bleeding at theNose and Ears,and behind the hinder part of the Head, where was nothing at all of any Sore. This lasted for three days; at the end of which, theNose and Ears ceased bleeding; but still blood came, as it were sweat, from theHead. Three days before the death of theChild (which was the sixth day since she began to bleed) the blood came more violently C c fro m (194) from her Head, and stream'd out to some distance from it: Nor did she bleed only there, but upon her shoulders, and at the Wast, in such quantities, that the linnen next her might be wrung, it was so wet; and every day required clean linnen. She for three days bled also at the Toes, at the bend of her Arms, at the Joynts of her fingers of each hand, and at the fingers ends; and in such measure, that in a quarter of an hour the mother hath catch't from the droppings of the fingers, almost so much as the hollow of her hand would hold. All the time of this bleeding the child never cry'd vehemently, but only groan'd; though about three weeks before, it had such a violent fit of crying as the Mother said she never heard. After the Child was dead, there appear'd in those places where the blood came, litle holes like the prickings of a Needle. This Accompt I had from the Mother of the Child who is a very sober Woman; and she told it me with tears. Every circumstance is so far from fiction, that the Women, who were many, that were with the Child in its illness and at its death, do attest it. I saw the Child's Coat stained, at the wast of it, with the blood that came from that part; and also another thing bloody from the head of it. The mother told me, the blood was not thin like water, but of that thickness as blood usually is; and that she and others believed, there was little or no blood left in the body of the Child. If the time of the Child's death will add any thing to this relation, it was about last Candlemass. 