An Account of the two Sorts of the Helmontian Laudanum, communicated to the Publisher by the Honourable Robert Boyle, together with the Way of the Noble Baron F. M. van Helmont (Son to the famous Johannes Baptista,) of preparing his Laudanum. AS for the Helmontian Laudanum, you may use your own Liberty in suspecting the Receipts that go about of it. For the name it self seems ambiguous to me, who am well inform'd that there are two sorts of the Helmontian Laudanum; the one us'd by the elder Helmont, the other by his Son. The former was as a great Secret communicated to me by an expert Chymist, sent by a German Prince to Complement Johannes Baptista Van Helmont, some of whose Manuscripts (one of which perish'd in the fire of London,) he procur'd together with a way of making his Laudanum, which having receiv'd from him fourteen or fifteen years ago, I carefully prepar'd, and thought my labour, so well recompensed by the extraordinary Operations it had, not so much in my Hands, as those of Learned Physitians and others, to whom I presented portions of it, that I should have thought the Chymist a Benefactor to Physic, if he would have made publick, or permitme to publish the way of making so successful a Medicine. And tho' the access to my Laboratory was so free to Ingenious U 2 Men, (148) Men, who knew such a Medicine to be preparing there, that some of them might easily suppose themselves Masters of the Secret; yet my Justice to the Communicator, who made a great and deserved Benefit of the Laudanum, made me take that care to conceal some Circumstances, that Men may easily be much more confident than sure that they have the right way of making the Medicine. Which because I durst not communicate, meeting two Years ago with that Obliging and very Ingenious Person, F. M. Baron Van Helmont, Son to the famous Johannes Baptista; I obtain'd from him, by Word of Mouth, some Directions about the Laudanun he uses, which tho' he confess'd, and I soon perceived, to be differing from his Fathers, yet he seem'd to think it not inferior and more parable. But he having, for a certain Reason, imparted to me his Process only by word of Mouth; least it should slip out of my Memory, I soon after committed it to writing, as the Particulars I gather'd from his writing occur'd to me; and at the next Season caus'd the Medicine to be prepar'd in my Laboratory, where the Progress was often watched in my Absence, by a very Learned and Industrious London Doctor, who having at my Request made many Tryals with it, and some in Cases where other Laudanums had been found unavailable, both uses it, and commends it more than I could expect from so wary and judicious a Man. This Medicine being somewhat more cheap and easy to be made than the Elder Helmonts, the Experience of its Efficacy made me desire of the Younger, a Permission to communicate it for the publick good, and to prevent those spurious Receipts that go about of the Helmontian Laudanum. Which Request of mine being almost as soon granted as made, I think my self bound both to own his readiness, to oblige the Publick, and to acquaint them with His Way of making so considerable a Medicine, as I practised it; tho' if I had receiv'd his Directions in writing, they might have been more full and methodical. But though I perceived, that he sometimes a little varies his Preparations; yet that Laudanum proving very successful, that was made according to the annexed Paper, I think it will not be amiss to keep to that: (149) that: Which I wish could have been publish'd before the Season of the Quinces were so far advanc'd. And I shall the more hope it may come abroad before it be quite too late, if you please to afford it room in the Papers, wherewith I am inform'd you intend this Week to gratify Curious. Laudanum Helmontii Junioris. Take of Opium a quarter of a pound, and of the juyce of Quinces four pound at the least *; the Opium, being cut into very thin slices, and then as 'twere minc'd to reduce it into smaller Parts, is to be put into, and well mix'd with, the liquor, (first made luke-warm) and fermented with a moderate Heat for eight or ten Days, rather more than less; then filter ~ it, and having infus'd in it of Cinamon, Nutmeg and Cloves, of each an Ounce ~, let them stand three or four Days more, if it be a full Week it may be so much the better; then filter * the Liquor once more, having let it boil a Walme or two after the Spices have been put in: This being done, evaporate away the superfluous Water to the consistence of an Extract, or to what other consistence you please. Lastly, incorporate very well with it, two, or at most three Ounces of the best Safron, reduc'd to fine ~ Powder. According to the consistence you desire to have your Medicine of, you may order it so, as either to make it up into a Mass of Pills (in which Form I have caus'd it to be given,) or keep it in a liquid Form; but in this latter Case the Evaporation must have been made more sparingly, that after the putting in of the ~ Safron it may not grow too ~ (or its extract.) thick. In this Form the Dose may be from five or six drops, to Ten, or fewer, according to Circumstances; and of the Pills, a somewhat less Quantity is required. A * (For near sive pound would perhaps do better.) ~ (which Circumstance the Author often omits, tho' I do not.) ~ (The Author iometimes uses half an Ounce more of each Spice.) * Or strain it well through a Canvas Bag. ~ (Sometimes the Author instead of the Powder makes use of as much Extract as can be obtain'd from that quantity of Safron.) 