Philosoph. ~ Fig: 1. nh.TransactNumb.335. N S A Letter from the late Mr. Edward Lhwyd, Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, to Dr. Tancred Robinson, F. R. S. Giving a farther Account of what he met with remarkable in Natural History and Antiquities, in his Travels thro' Wales. Lhan Dyvodog, Glamorganshire, Sept. 22. 1697. S I R, I Had no sooner received your last, but was forced to retire in a hurry to the Mountainous Parts of this County, in order to copy out a large Welsh MS. which the Owner was not willing to spare above two or three Days, and that in his Neighbourhood. It was writ on Vellom, about 300 Years since; and contained a Collection of most of the oldest Writers mentioned by Dr. Davies, (501) Davies at the end of the Welsh Dictionary: So I thought it better trespassing on the Gentleman's patience that lent it, than lose such an Opportunity as perhaps will not occur again in my Travels. This is the occasion of my long Silence the transcribing of that Book taking up two Months of our time. I sent Mr. Ray an Account of some Plants we met with, with three or four Figures, which perhaps you have seen. We have since found two or three others, which I had never met with before; viz. 1. Lysimachia Chamaenerion dicta Alpina C. B. Prodr. 2. Bifolium minimum. 3. Solanifolia Circaea Alpina C. B. 4. Mr. Ray's Alsine spuria pusilla repens foliis Saxifragae aureae. We found indeed the First also last Year at Hysvae, one of the Hills of Snowdon; and I had formerly sent Mr. Ray a dried Leaf. Dr. Richardson brought it home with him last Year; and it flowring since in his Garden, he is fully satisfy'd it is distinct from the Common French Willow-Herb. In a steep Rock called Craig y park, and others in the Parish of Ystrad Dyvodog, we observed divers Veins of Coal, exposed to sight as naked as the Rock; and found a Flint Axe, somewhat like those used by the Americans. At Goldcliff in Monmouthshire we had some variety of form'd Stones: But what pleased me most was an Asteria, or Column Star-Stone, beset with Sprigs the whole length of it, issuing from the Commissures of the Plates. This County abounds with Entrochi; one whereof I saw in a Rock at the Isle of Barry, above 15 Inches in length; and an other about 10 Inches long, but as thick as a Cane. We took their Figures and Dimensions, but could not get off the Stones without breaking. At Kaer phily Castle the People shewed us an Inscription (as they supposed) on one of the Steps of the Tower; (502) Tower; a Copy whereof I here send you. I must confess I am not fully satisfied whether it were ever designed for reading, or for some kind of Antique Ornament; but rather incline to the latter. The Stone was not designed for a Step, there being none of the same kind in the whole Stair-Case. The Marks were mostly worn out by treading; and it is possible they might be once more uniform; and some few Mistakes may have happened in the copying it as it is. I have sent the Stone to the Museum at Oxford; where the Curious may be satisfied. Were it the old Celtic Character, which Caesar says was like the Greek, 'twere a noble Discovery: But I fear our Ancestors (if ever they had any Writing) have left us none upon Stones. I also copied the Masons Marks on some Stones there; whereby perhaps some Persons curious in Architecture may judge whether it has been a Roman or later British Building: I say Roman or British, because the Saxons and Danes never settled here; and it is older than the Norman Conquest. We have collected what Insects occur'd this Summer, especially the Butterflies; but we are ignorant of the means of preserving them well in our Travels. I shall take all the Care I can of the Zoophytes this Winter in Pembrokeshire and Cardiganshire; but as yet we have met with very few of them. I am, Honoured Sir, Your most humble and affectionate Servant, E. LHWYD. Fig. 1. (503) Fig. 1. The Masons Marks on the Stones that supported the Arches at Kaerphily Castle, Glamorganshire. Fig. 2. A Sculpture on one of the Steps in a round Tower at Kaer Phily Castle. Fig. 3. Certain Plates which frequently occur amongst the Entrochi of this County. IV. 