YIITe Obser7tations on Bees. By John Hunter, Esq. F. R. SvRead February 235 s792. Ofthe Common Bee. r . 1 HE corlltnon bee, from a number of peculiarities in its oeco1lomy, has called fort} the attelltiotl of the curious; and, from the profit arising from its labours, it has become the object of the interested; therefore, no wonder it has excited universal attention, even from the savage to the most civilized people: but it has hardly been collsidered by the anatomist; at least the two modes of investigation have not gone so much hand in hand, as they ought to have done. The history of the bee has rather been considered as a fit subject for the curious at large, whence more has been conceived, than observed. SWAMMERDAM, indeed, has rather erred OI-1 the other side, harring, with great industry, been very minute on the particular structure of the bee. T shall here obserare, that it is commonly not only utlnecessary to be minute in our descriptiorl of parts itl natural history, but in genetal improper. It is 1lnnecessary,-when it does not apply to any thing but the thing itself, more especially if it be of no consequence-; but w-henever it applies, then it should so far be treated accurately. Minuti beyond what is essential, tire the nlind, and render that which should entertain along with Xr.-HUNTE:Ft'S Obserrations on Bees9instruction, heavy and disagreeable; the more so too,: if the parts are small, whEre the sense can only take thexm in sir3t,ly, and the mind can hardly coluprehend the hole, or apply all the parts coubined toany conseqllent action. Tllis has been too much the case wvith SWAMMERL)AM ; he often attempted too mucll accuracy in his description of minute things But the natural history of insects has not been sufficiently understood /at large7 so as to throw ligllton this subject where there was an analogy, and where, without such analogy it must appear in the bee alone ullintelligible, from the obscurity attending some parts of their aeconomy; for there is hardly any species of Rallimals but wllat has some of its oeconomy obscure; and probably thi$ is as much so in this insect, as in any other-class of cmimals sve are at one season of thefyear almost claily seeing; yet these parts of the oecotlomy may be evident in some: otherspecies of tlle same tribe or genus, ancl thus be clearedup, from-analogy;so that thexspecies assist eaclliother in their detnorlstration. This is evident in the nvhole tribe of flying insects,: for what islost, or cannot be made out in the olle, may be demonstrated in anotEler atld we find there are some things in the oeconomy of the bee that cannot be seen orxdemonstrated in it alone, hut which are evident itl some other insects; and while tlley possess the-same yarts, atld other circumstances are similar, we must conclude the uses of those parts are sitnilar it-l both; -for whenever a circulustance in one aninlal cannot he found out in that animal but can in anu others tlleIl the natural conclusion isy that the uses are similar n both. Tlough tlle bee may be classed ill some degree among he dotnestic animalsJ yet firozn there being: such a cluster ACDUC SC: I I 4 S Mp. TIUNTER}S Observations on Bees.of them, and because they aroe an offetlsive and irritable -animal, thei:r actions are relldered very osbscure and can only be observed by little starts ; often we cala only see the effiectsS w-hich retlders the knowledge of their oeconomy still imperfect; they would in rnany Gases seem to evade our wishes; tlley often remove otlt of our sight part of their oeconomys when they can. TIlus they often retnove their eggs and young. Many quadrupeds do this, as cats, &c. and I have rea 5011 to believe, th-at birds can retnove their eggs, at least I have reason to suspect the sparrow of this. As the bee is an insect, it has most thitlgs peculiar to that class of altimals: such as are commoll are not to be taken notice of in the history of thisinsect, but only its peculiarities which distinguisll it -from ali others, and collstittlte it to ber a bee; and as bees form a large tribe of illsects, 8 it i$ the more singular peculiarities that constitute a distinct species of this tribe. As rnost parts of the oecotlomy of insects have not been in every respect und-erstood, and although now known insome itl sectsX yet cannot be observed in the bee, but which accord with many circumstances atterading this-insect, therefore suc.h must be brought into the present history of the bee, to rer:lder it more cornplete. I shall rlot be minute in the anatomy of t}ais animal, as that svould be too tedious and unirsteresting. When we talk of the tconomy of the colony, such as the secreting wax, making co-mbs, collecting farina, honey, feeding the maggots, covering in the -chrysalis, and tlle honey stingillg, &c.; it nis the labotlring bees that are meant. In purslling any subject, most things come to light as it were by accident; that isy many things arise out of mvestigation tl:lat were not at first conceived, and everl Mr. HErNT5R'S Observalions on BeesOznisfortunes in experiments have brought things to our knowledge that wereS not, and probably could not have beel2 previously cQnceived: oll the other hand, I have often devised experiments by the fireside, or in my carriage, and have also conceived the result; but whetl I tried the experiment, the result Btas diffierent; or I found that the expierimeit could not be attendecl with all the circunstances thcat were suggested. As bees, from their nulnbers, hide very much their operations, it is necessary to have such contrivarlees as will explore their ceconomy. Hives, svith glass lights in them, often sllew sotne of their operations, and when wholly of glass, still more; but as they fortn such a cluster, and begitl their comb in the centres littIe can be seen till their work becotnes enlarged, and, by that time, they 11ave produced a mtich larger quantity of bees, so as still to obsctlre their progress. Very thin glass hives are the best calculated for exposing their operation:s; the distance from side to side about three inches; of a height and length sufficient for a surarm of bees to complete one summer's work in. As one perpendicular comb, the whole length and height of the hive, in the celltre, dividing it into two, is the best positiOrl for exposing their operations it is necessary to give them a lead or direct-ion to form it so:; therefore it is proper to make a ridge along the top froln end to ends in the centre, X between the two sides, for they like to begin their cotnh frortl an eminence; if vve wished to have them trarlsverse, or oblique, it would only be necessary to makeX trallsverse, or obliqueridges in the hive. I had one made of two broad pieces of plate-glass, with glass ends, which alaswered forsimple exposure very well ;but I often saw operations going orl, when I wished to have caught soi:ne of the bees, or to take out-a piece of coml? S 2 Mr. HUNTERVS ObservationsXon Bees.&C. ; therefore I had hives lmade of the same shape and size, but with diffierent panes of glass, each pane opening vs7ith hingesX so that if I saw any thing going oil tl1at I wished to examine more minutely or immediately, I operled the pane at this partS and executed what I wished, as much as was in lny power ; this I was obliged to do with great caution, as often the comb was fastened to the glass at this part. When I saw some operations goig on9 the dates or periods of which I wished to as certain, such as the time of laying eggs, of hatching, &c. I luade a little dot wit;h white paint opposite to the cell where the egg was laids and put down the date. From these animals forming colonies, and from a vast variety of effects being produced3 and with a degree of attention and llicety, that seem even to vie with man ; man, not being in the least jealous, has wished to bestow on them nzore than they possess, viz. a reasoninglfaculty; while every action is only instinctive, and what they carlnot avoid or alter, except irol:n necessity, not from fancy. They have been supposed to be legislators, even lnathematicians: indeed upon a superficial view, there is sorne shew of reason for such suppositiorls; but people have gone much further, and have filled up from tlltir imagi nation every blank, but in so unnatural a way, that one reads it, as-if it were the descriptiola of a monster. Probably, the best wayof treating the history of this insectX is only to describe :what is, and. the reader vvill immediately see where authors have been inventing; however. there are some assertions that should be particularly taken notice of, such as forming qlleen bees at pleasure. Countries that have but little variety in their seasons may 11AVC iIlsects, whose ceconomy is well adapted to tllis uniformitat, Mr. HUNTER)S Observations on Bees.and which would not be suited to a climate uzhose seasons tare very different; for insects of countries, whose seasotls are strongly marked, as in this, have a period in tTleir life which it is little itl our power to itlvestigate and can scarcely be discovered but by accidents for experiments ofterl give little assistance; therefore we are obliged to fill up this blank by reasoning, and froln analogy? where we have any. This period is principally -the winter, ill those insects who live t}rough that season. Animals of seasotl are somewhat like most vegetables ; wl:lile the common bee is only an aninzal of seasons in the common actiotls of life, or what may be called its voluntary actionsn and therefore is somewhat likethe human species, suited to everycountry; which may be the reason why it is so universal an anirllalX for I believe bees are one of the most universal animals known: yet this may arise fiom cultivation, in consequerlce of which, they have been brought into climatesn where, of themselvesJ they would not have come. Insects are so stnall, and so few of tllem arEe capable of being domesticated, that tlle duration of tlleir life is not easily ascertained; therefore we are to rely more on circumstantial, than on positive ordemonstrative proof; and perhaps the life of the common bee may be least in our power to knosr, for their numbers in the same society make it almost impossible to be ascertained. From their forming a colony, or society, which keeps stationary, the continuance of this society is known, but to what age the individual liv-es, is not known ; we are certain, howearer, that it is only the labourers and queens that continue the society for the males :die the same year they are formed. From their fixirlg on the branches oiE Mr. HUNTERJS Ob3ervationsio-n Beoes.t$4trees, under prqiecting exposed surfaces, when they swarm, we should be inclilled to suppose that they were aIlirnals of a warm climate; yet their providing liberally for the change of climate, or lather for a change of season, would, on the contrary,make-us believe th-ey w-ere adapted -for challgeableX cii;Xuates; or rather, these two circumstances should make us suppose they were fitted for both; and their universality proves it. And I do collteive, that in a pretty uniform warm climate5 their cecorlomy may be somewhat different from what it-is in the changeable9 as they would not be under the same neces$ity to lay-up so much st;ore, and probably might employ their cells in breeding, fbr a much longer period: however, a good climate agrees with theln bestX as also a good seasonitw-an indifferent climate, such as Britain. We find the colnmon bee in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. That they may bel or should be in the three first, is easily supposecl, but hosr they came to America is not so readily conceived; for altlaougld akind of manageableanimal,yetthey do awot lilte such lollg; confinemellt irl their hives} as would carry them to the West Irudies) excepting in an ice-hou$e; fA when I 11ave endeavoured to cotllline them in their hives, they have < s been so restless as to destroy themselrres. The fbmale and the working bee, I believes in every speci have stings, which ren(lers them an animal of offence, indeedf but rather of fd-efenc-e; fbr although they make an attack, I believe it is by wjay of defbnce, excepting when they attack one another, whi-ch is-seldom or never with their stings. As this belollgs more to the labourers, -it shall be considexed when I treat of them irz particular. Of the whole bee tribe, the com mon bee is the casiest irritated; for as they have property Mr. HUNTERS Observations on Bees.1;3Sfthey are jealous of it, and seem to defend it ; but when not laear F it, they are quiVet, -and must be hurt before they will sting; with all this disposition for defence, which is only to secure their property, or themselves, when more closely attacked, yet they have no covetoustless, nor a disposition to obstruct others. Thus two bees;or more will be sucking at the salne flower, without the first possessor claiming it as his right: a hulldred may be about the Isame drop of honey, if it is beyorld the boundaries of their own right; but what they have collected they defend. It is easily known when they tnean to sting; they fly about the obj-ect of their allger very quickly, and by the guicklless of their motion evade beillg struck or attacked; vslhich is discovered by the sound of their vings, as if going to give a stroke as they fly, a very different noise from that of the wings when coming home of a fiX<e evelling loaded ^7ith farina, or honey; it is then a soft contented noise. When a single bee is attacked by several others, it seems the most passive atlitnal possibleg makillg no resis-tance, and even hardly seeming to wish to get avv-ay; and in this mantler thetr allow tlleluselves to be kilied. They are perhaps the only insect, that feeds ill the willter alld-therefore the only otle that lays up exterllal store; and as a11 animals, whether insects or not, tllat keep quiet in the vvsinter, svithot either eating at Sall, or eating very little ill -proportiotl to what they do i-n the summer, gr-ow fat and muscular ill the summer, (which I term internalstore,) we see why the cornmon bee need not be fatter at orle time than another; and accordillgly we find them nearly-of the same fitness the year round. There are accidents befalling hives of bees, thati!are not easily accounted for. I had a hive which in the month of November Mr. HUNTER'S Observations on Bees.^ 13 )was become quite empty of bees, and upon examination had no honey in it, which vvas strong in the summer, and had violent attacks snade-uporz itin October by w-asps belonging to a nest in the garden, but appeared quiet when that Ilest was remoxred. Upon examining this hive, I found only five d-ead bees, arld not a drop of honey in arly one cell: there was a good deal of bee bread in differetlt cells scattered up and down the comb, vvthich was begome white vith mould on its surface. On the cather hand, I have had swartns die in the winter in the hives, -while there was great plenty of honey in the conabs: what seemed remarkable, they all died with tlleir probosces elongated, and in those svhich I opened, I found the stomac}ls full of honey, and their intestines filll also of excrementt especially the last part. Of the Heat of Bees. Bees are, perhaps, the only insect that produces heat within itself, and vvere therefore intended to have a tolerably wellregulated warmth, without which, of cour$e, they are very uncomfortable, and soorl die; and which makes not only a part of their internal aeconomy respecting the individual; but a part of their external, or common ceconotny, and is therefore necessary to be known. The heat of beesis ascertainablevby the thermouleters and I shall give the result of experirnents made at tvvZo different seasons of tle year. July i8th, at ten in the evening, svind northerly, thermometer at ^G40, in the open air, I illtroduced it into the top of a hive full of bees, and in less than lSve minutes it rose to 820. I let it starld all night; at fve in the rnorning it was down at Mr. HUNTER}S Observations on Bees.tgt; at nine the salne nzorning;, it had risen to 8tg>, and at orze o'clock to -84,o; and at nine in the evening it mras dourn to 780. December goth, air at 3o, nees at 7go Although bees support a heat nearly eqvlal to that of a quadruped, yet their external covering is not diffierent from that of insects wllich do not; there is no difference between their coat and a common flyvs or wasp s, nor are they fatter, all which nlakes them bad retainers of heat; therefore they are chilly ; and in a cold too severe for tllem to be comfortable in they make ul) for their want of size singly and get into clusters. A single bee has so little posver of keeping itself BJarlms that it preselltly becomes numbedS and almost motioIlless; a common night in summer will produce thie; eSect: a cold capable of producing such effects kills them soon, by which mealls lrast numbers die; therefore a common bee is obliged to feed and live ill society, to keep itself warm in cold weather. We know that the consumption of heat rnay be greater than the power of fornin; it; wvhen that is the case, sve become sensible of it, alld tllfen take on such actions as are either instinctisre, such as arise naturally out of the itnpression, or as reasons custom, or habit direct. Mally animals, upon the impression of coldJ coii themselves up in their own fur, bringing all their extremities into the centre, or hollowr of the belly ; birds bring a;lleir feet vlzder the belly, alld thrust their bill betweell tlleir ving and body ; many, if llot all, go to the utartnest places; either firom illstinctive pritlciple, or habit: but the bees have no other mode but forming clust-ers and the larger the better. As they are easily affected by cold, tlleir instinctive principle respectillg cold is very strongn as likewise svith regard to svet1 WIDCCXCII T Mr. H-UNTER'-S Observations oi? Bee3.I have-seen a swarm hanging out at the door of a hive, ready to take flight, and then return; a chill has come on, of which I was not sensible, and in a few minutes the whole has gone back into the hive; and by the cold increasing, I have at length perceilred the cause of their return. If rain is coming ons we observe them returning home in great quantities, and hardly any abroad. The eggs cxf bees require this heat as much as themselves, nor will the m-aggot live in a cold of 60 or yoo, rlor even their chrysalis This warreth keeps the wax so soft, as to allow them to model it with ease. It1 glass hivesg or those that have windows of glas-s in tl:letn, we often find a dew on the inside of the glass, especitally svlaen the glass is colder than the air withill: whether thisX is perspiration from the bees, both from their external surface and lungs, or evaporation from the honey, I cannot say. Bees are very cleanlyanimalsrespectingthemselves, although rwot so respecting the relnains of their young TheyX I believe, seldom or never evacvlate their excrement in the hive. I have kllown them confined tnany days-without discharging tXne contents of the rectum; and the motnent they got abroad, they evacuated in tI2e air, when flying: and they appear to be very nice in their bodiesn for I have often detected them cleaniig one another, more especially if hy accident they are besmeared with honey. tRhis atlimal may be considered alone, or so far as concerns its own oeconomy as an itldividual, which is colxlLtuon to the most solitary animals; but it Gan also be considered as a member of society, in which it is taking an active parts and in which it becotnes an object of great curiosity.Mr. HUNTER'S Observation3 on Bees.18gTo consider this society indilridually, it may i said to consist of a femaleL breeders female non-breedersy and rnales: but to consider it as a comlnunity, it may be said to consist only o-f female l)reeders and non-breeders, the males ansa -ering no other purpose than simply as a male, and are only temporary; and it is probableX the female breeder is to be considered in no other ligh:t tllan as a flayer of eggs,and that slle only influences the non-breeders by her presence, being only a bond of utlionn for without ller they seem to llave no tie ; it is her presence tllat makes them an aggregate allimal. May we not suppose that the offspring of the gueen have an attachtnent to the lllother somewhat silllilar to tlle attacilment of young birds to tile female that brings them up ? for although the times of their attachment are not equal, yet it is tlle dependence which eacll has oll its mother, that constitutes the bond; for bees have none without her: llvvever, the similarity is not exact, for young animals svho have lost their llurse will herd togetherll and jointly make the best shifts they can, because in future tlley are to become sirlgle allimals; but bees have an eternal stlstinctive dependence on the mother; probably from there not being distirect seses. When the queen is lost, this attachmellt is broke; they give up industry, probably die ; or, sve may suppose, join some other lwive. tRllis is not the case with those of this tribe, whose queenJsingly forms a colotly; for although the qutetl is destroyed, yet they go on with that work which is their lot ; as tlle nvasp, hornet, and hlamble bee Most p-ro bably the svhole ceconomy of tlle bee, which we so much ad mire, belongs to the non-breeders, alld depends on their itz$tinctive powers being set to work by the presence of the breenlers that being their only elljoymellt ; therefore when we rrs Mr. HUNTER'S Observations on Bees.t4otalk of the wollderful oeconomy of bees, it is clliefly the la -bourers at large we are to admire, although the queell gets the principalcredit for tlle exterlt of their instilactive properties This economy, in its appearances and operations? is somewhat similar to human society, but very diffierent in its first causes and mode of conduct. The human species sets up its own standard; the bee has one set up by nature, and therefore fulfils all the necessary purposesu This standard of influenceX svhich is the breeder, is called the queen, ancS I shall keep to the name, although I do not allow her voluntary influellce or power. The non-breeders are what colupose the his-e, or vllat; may be called the comlYlunityat large; arldthe males,aremeremales: each of these parts of the community I shall 11ereafter collsider separately. To take up the commonbee in arly one period of the year, or, in other urords, in any one month, and carry it round to the same, and observe what happells in that time, is probably incIuditlg the whole oeconomy of bees; for although they may live more tllan orle year, whicT} I believe is not known from its not being eas-ily ascertained, yet each year can only be a repetition of the last, as I conctive they are colalplete in the first; therefore the history of one year may be said to tnake a whole and of course it is not material at what time in the circle we begin the history. Perhaps the best time to begin the history of such insects, as only cotne to full gronrth the season they are bred, and live through the winter, arld breed the summer follosvillg, is BtIlen they emerge from the torpid state, and begin to lareed ; but it might be thought tllat the common bee is an exception to this Mr. HUNTERVS 06servations oal Bers14irule, because they begin early in the spritlg to breed generally before they can be observed ; and as they breed to form a colony, which is to go offfrc)m the old stock in order to set out anew, it; might seem most llatural to begill with this cololly, alld trace it through its various actions of life for olle year, wlaen it a-s it were, regenelates itself, and-comes round to the same pOillt againn tllat tlle old stock utas in utllen it thresv off this colotly. Bees, Iike every other arlimal that is taken care of in the time of breeding, or illcubation, and llursed to the age of taking care of itself, cannot be said to have a -period in which we can begin its natural history; but ill some other insects there is such a period, for they can be trace(l frorn an egg, becoming totally independent of the parent from the moment of being laid as the silk-worln, &c. There are three periods at svhich the history of the bee Jnay commence: first, in the spril^g, when the queen begitls to lay her eggs; in the summer, at the commencement of a new colony; or ila the autumn, wllen they are going into witlter-quart:ers. I shall begin the particlllar history of the bsee with the new cololay when nothing is formed; for it begins thela every thing that can possibly happen afterwards. When a hive sends offa cololly, it is colntnonly in the ntonth of June, but that will vary according to the season, for in a mild spring bees sometimes swarxn in the middle of May, and very often at the latter end of it. Before they c.orne off, tlley commorlly hang about the mouth of the hole, or door of the hive, for some days, as if they had not sufficient room within for sucll hot weatller, which I believe is vvery much the case; for if cold or mJet weather come orl, they stow themselves very well, and w-ait for fine weathert But swarmillg appears to be -Mr.: TIUNTER'S observations ouz Bees.14-2rather a1< ol?eration arising from necessity, for they would seetn laot naturally to sNZarm, becavlse if they 11ave all emI3ty space to fill, they do tlot ssrarm; therefore by increasing the size of tlle lliere, the ssrarming is prevented. TIlis periocI is much 2 lotzger ill sollle thall in othel s. For some evelaings before tlley come off, is often heard a singular noise, a kind of ring, or soutld of a small tru1upet; by comparing it with the notes of tlle piano-forte, it seemed to be the same sound with tlle lower A of the treble. The swarm commonly corlsists of three classes; a female, or females,$ males, and those commonly called 1nules, xvhich are supposed to be of no sex, and are the labourers; tlle whole about tszo quarts in bulk, making about six or seven thousand It is a question that cannot easily be determined, whether this old stock sends offetltirely youllg of the same season, and whether the whole of their young ones, or only part. As the males are entirely bred in the same seasons part go off; but part must stay, and nlost Sprobably it is so s-ith tlae otllers. rRlley commonly come off in the heat of the day, oftet1 immediately after a shower; who takes the lead I do llot know, but should suppose it was the queen. \Yhen one goes oS, they all ilumediately follow, a1ad fly about seemingly in great confL1sion, although there is one principle actuating tlse wl1ole. They SOOll appear t;o be directed to sotne fixed place; such as the brallch of a tree or bush, the cavities of old tlees, holes of houses leadillg into some hollow place; and svhenever the stand is made, tl1ey all immediately repair to it,till they are all collected. But it would seern, in some cases, that they had not fixed upon any resting* I harre reason to believe that rlever }nore than oIle female comes oF with a swarmZ Mr HUN2R'S ObservSons on Bees.place before thg came oS,: or if they had, -that they were either disturbed if it was near or that it was at a g;reat distance ; forg after hovering some time as if undetermined, they fly away, mount up irlto the air, and go off vith great rrelocity. When they have fised upOll their future hahitationj they ilnmediately begin to make their cotnbs, for they have the materials within themselves. I have reatson to belieare that they fill their crops Mith honey when they Gome away; probably frotn the stock in the hive. I killed several of those that came aw-ayand follnd their crops full, xwhile those that remained i ftliehive had th-eir crops not near so full: sotne of thera: carne away ttith farina on their legss which I conceive to be rather accidental. I may just observe here7 that a hive comluonly sends offtwoy sometimes three swarms in a summer; butthat the second is comlnonly less than the firstt and the third less than the second^; -and this last has seldom time to provide for the winXter: they shalloften thleatentoswarm, butdonot; whetherthe threatenix-g is ovwing to too many bees, and their not swarming is owing to therebeing no queell, I do not know. It sometimes happens that the swarm shall go back agaill ; but in such instances I have reason to think that they have lost their queen^,. for th-e hier-es to which their swarm have come back do llot swarm the next warm day7 but shall hang out for-a fortnight, or more, and then swarm; and when they d;o, thei swarm is commonly much larger than before, which makes me suspect that they waited fbr the queen that was to have gorle o£with the next swarzzl-. So far we harre set the cololay in motion. The materials of -their dwelli-ng, or comb-) which isthe wax is the next COllSideration, xvith the mode of form-ing, preparing5 or disposing of Mr. HUN018ESR}S Ob$erVatiOnS an Bees.144it. Itz giving a totally new account of tlle wax, I shaII first .show it ca2l hardly be svhat it has been supposed to be. First, I shall observe that the materials, as they are found composing the comb, are not to be fotlnd in the same state (as a composition) ill anJr vegetalJle, where tlley have lJeell supposed to be got. The substatlce brotlt,ht in on their legs, which is the faritla of the flowers of plants, is, in common, I believe, imagined to be the tuaterials of svhich the wax is made, for it is called by lXlOSt the wax: lout it is tlle farina, for it is always of the sanle coloul as the farilla of the flower vsrllere they are gathering; and indeed we see theln -gathering it, and we also see thel covered almost all over with it) like a dust; nevertheless, it has been supposed to be the waxs or ftlzat the vvax was extracted from it. XEAUMUR is of this opinion. I made several experitnents to see if there was such a quantity of oil in it, as would account for the quantity of wax to be forlueds and to Ieartl if it was-composed of oil. I helcI it llear the candle ; it burnt, but did not smell like wax, atld had the salue smel], when burning, as farina when it was burnt. I observed that this substance was of different colours on diffierent bees, but alvvrays of the same colour on botll legs of the same bee; hereas new made cotnb wa-s all of c)lle colour. I observecl that it svas gathered with more avidity for old 11ives, wthere the comb is complete, than for those hives where it is only begutl which we could hardly conceive if it was the materials of MIAX: --glSO we may observe, that at the stery beginlaing of a hive, the bees ; seldom bring ill\aily substance on their legs for two or three days, and after that the farina gatherers begin to illcrease; for rlonv sorne cells are formed to hold it as a store, and solne eggs are laid, which when hatched will require this substance a$ Mr.'.HIJNTER'SQ6servat.ions.OBeesfood; atad which urill be-ready whthe weather 0-is-wJet. Iz have also olbserved, that sn hen thfe vvseather has either tbeexl so cold, or so wet in June, as to hinder a t70ung swarl:n from gOilZg abroad, they have yet in that tirne formed as l-nuch t1tW COnlb, as:they did in the sarne time -when the sveather was suchi as al lowed tlaeln to go abroad. I laave seerl them bring it in about the latter etlct of March, and hav-e oleserved itl glass hives the bees svith tlie farina on their legs, and llave seetl theln disposig of it-, as wtill be described hereafter. Tlle svax is forlaied by the bees thelzaselves; it lnay be called an exterllal secretion of oil and I have found that it is fortned between-each scale of the under side of the belty. V\;llen I . first observed-this substan0(>e, itl ny exatnination of the workw ing bees zI vvas at a loss to say what it was: I asked myself if it was tlew scales formitlg, and whether they cast the old, as the lobster&c. does? but it svas to be found otlly betvveerlthe scales, on the lovvrer side of the bellyv On examining the bees through glass 11ivesn while they were clilnbing up tlle glass, I-could see that most of them had tilis substance, for it looked as if the lower, or posterlor edge of the scale, was double or that there were double scales; but I perceived it svas loose, not attached. Finding that tho substance brouglt in on tlleir legs was farina, intended S as appeared fron every circglmstance, to be the food of the maggot and not to naake \\tElX ; and not having yet perceis7ed any thig that could give lue tlle least idea of wax; I conceived t!ese scales might be it, at least I thought it necessary to iavesbigate them.I tllerefore took several on tl-e poin 6 of a needleg and lleld them to a caadle,>here they melted, and iumediately forned themselves into a rour:d gIobe; upon othich I rlo longer doubted but this was tlle svax, vvhicll opinion MDCCSC I I U 146SIr. HUNTER:S 01iservations on Bees.was confirmed to me by not finding those scales but in the building season. In the bottom of the hive we see a good many of the scales lying loose, sonze pretty perfect, others inS pieces. -I have endeavoured to catch them, either taking this matter out of themselves, from between the scales of: the abdomena or frotn one another, but never could satisfy myself in this respect: howevern I once caught a bee examining betweerl the scales of the belly of another, but I could not find that ittook any thing fkolzl bQtween. We;very often -see some of the bees wagging their belly, as if ticliled, running rourld, and to and fro fbr only alittle way, followed by one or two other bees, as if exanzinillg thetn. I conceived they were probably Jhaking out tll-e scales of Btax,and that the others were ready upon the watch to catcla tlletn but -I could not absolutely de tertnine what; they dld-. It is with these scales-that they formf the (ells called tlwe colub but perhaps not erltirely for, I 12elieve, they mix farina witll zt ; however, this only occasionallyy when probably: the secret-iortw is rlot itl great plentys : I have some r@ason to think, that where no other substance is introduced,^ the t;hiGJkrless of the scale is the same with that of the sides of tlle comb; if so, then a comb may be no more thana number of these united; but a: great deal of the comb seems to b-e too thick for this, and, indeed, would appear t-o be a mixture, similar to the covering of l:he chrysalis The vvrax llaturally is hite, but when melted from the comb at large, it is yellow. I apprehended this migllt arise from its being stained with honey, the exGrement of the maggotsy and with the bee-bread. I steeped some white comb in honey, boiled some with farina, as alsowith olel COlllb, but 10 could not say tllat it was snade yellower Wax, by glqi . HISNTER'5 ;observ.aHons X Bes.:1g3)1eacTling, is brought back to its natu:ral colour, svhich is also a proof that i-ts-colour is derived :frotn some mixture. I have reason tc) be}ieve that they take the old comb, when . . either brolken dosvny or by any accident renclered useless, arld elnploy it agaila; but this Gan only be witla combs tl-zat haore had llo bees hatched ill them, for tlle rax caaltaot be separated from the silk afterwrards. REAUMUR supposed that tlley new svorked up the old materialss because he foutld the covering of tlle chrysalis of a yellonver colour thatl tlle other parts of the rlew-comb ; but this is always so, whether tlley have old yellosv comb to work up, or not, as will be shewn. The lJees who gatller the farilla, also forln the urax, for I foutld it between their scales The cells, or rather the congeries of cells, wllich compose the c-omb, may be said to form perpendicular plates, or partitions, which extend frorn top to bottom of the cavity itl whicll they build them, and from side to side. They always begill at tlle top or roof of the vault, in which they build, atld work downwards ; but if the -upper part of this vault, to which their combs are fixed, is r enlcoved, and a dome is put over, they begza at the upper edge of the old comb, and work up into the new cavity at the top e rlthey generally may be guided as to the direction of their new plates of comb, by fortning ridges at top, to which -they begin to attach their c?omb. Ill a lotlg hive, if these ridges are longitudinal, their plates of cotnb will be longitudirwal l if placed transverse, so wlll be the plates; and if oblique, the plates of colnb wi:ll be oblique. Each plate consists of a double set of cells, whose botto-ms form tTle partitioll between each set. T:he plates thernsolves are not very regularly arranged, not for-ming a regular plane where they Pnight have U 2 8Mr.HUNTER'S (b)bSerVatiOnS on00Bees.done so; but are o:ften adapted to the situation9 or shape of the cavity in svllich tlley are built. ; The bees do not -endeavour to shape their cavity to their work, as the wasps dc), nor are the cells of equal depths; also fitting thetn to their situatic)rl ; but as the breeding cells must all be of a given depthS they reserve a sufficient number for breeding in, and they put tEle honey into the others, as also into the shallow ones. The attachment of the cornb round tlae cavity is not continued, but ilwterrupted, so as to fortn passages ; there are also passages in the middle of the plates, especially if there be a cross stick to support the comb; these allosv of bees to go acrcess froln plate to p]ate. The substance which they use for att-aching tlleir combs to surrourlding parts is llOt the sasne as the comlnoll wax; it is soRer and tougher, a good deal like the stlbstan£e svith -which tlley coverz in their clarysalis, or the humble bee surrounds her eggs. Itis pro bably a lmixture of -w ax svith farina . The cellsare placed laearly horizontally, but not exactly so ; the nlouth raised a l-ittle, wllich p-robably may be to retain the honey the better; hosvever tiliS rule is not strictly observed, for often they are horizontal, axld tonvards the-loX-er edge of a plane of comb they are often de clinillg. The first colnbs that a hive forlms are the smallestg and lnuch neater thall the last, or lowermost. Their sidesg . or partitions between cell and cell, are much thinner, axld the hexagon is much more perfect. The wax is purer, being probably little else but vzax, and it is more brittle. The lower combs are considerably ]arger, and contain much more wax, or perhaps, more properly, more materials-; and the cells areat such distances as to allow theIn to be of a round figure: the wax is softer, atldL there is something nised with it. I; harre observed that the cells are not all of equal size, some being a AIr. HUNTE-R'S Observtio7zs on Bees6949degree Iarget than the others; arld that the small are the first forlned, and of course at the upper part vv7here the bees begin and the larger are nearer the lower part of the comb, or last made: hoBrever, ill hives of particular cotastruction, mJhere the bees may begill to work at one etld alad can work both down, alld towards the other end, we often find the }arger cells both oll the lower part of the com-bs, and also at the opposite end. These are formed for thes males to be bred in ; and in the hornets and wasps combs, there arelarger cells for the queens to be bred in: these are also forlnecl in the lower r;ier and tlle last forlned. 1'he first comb mcie il] a hive, is all of olze colour, viz. al most sarhite ; but it is not so wthite towards the end of the seasone having then norefof-a yellow castw Of theRoyal Cell. There is a cell, vvrhich is called the Floyal Cell, oftell three or four of them, solnetimes more; I have seen eleven, and everl thirteen itl the same hive; (orllmonly they a;re-placed Qn the edge of one or luore of the combs, but often on the side of a comb; howev-er, not in the centre, along wnJith the other cellss like a large one placed among^ the others,btlt oRen agaillst the rn-outhsof the cells, and proJecting out beyond the common surface of the cotnb; but most of tl:aem are fortned from the edge of the comb, which termina-tes-in one ofthese cells. The royal cell is much n7ider than tile others-, bllt seldoul so deep . ltS mouth iswrourld, and appears to be the largest half of an oval in depth, and is declining downwards, itlstead of being hori zolltalX or lateral. The rnaterials of nlaich it is composecl areMr. i{WTES¢-s>kgrVv-tioBs on Bees.16Osofter than common Uwax, rather like the last mentioned, or those of which the lower edge of the plate of comb ss made, -or wiSth whicll the-bees cover the chrysalis: they have very little rax in their composition, not one third, l;he rest I con Oceive to be farirla This is :supposed to be tlle cell in -which thequeerl is bred, but I have-reasoll to believe that thlskis ouly imaginatiotl: for, first, it is too large, atld luoreoveri seldomso deep as the large cells n which the males are bred; whereas, if proportiorled to the letlgth ofthe queen it ovught to be deeper for length of body is her greatest diSererlceF In the second place, its tnouth is plac>ed downwa-rd; and in the tllird place, it is never lined with t-hesilken covering of the chrysalis, similar -to the cellsof the uales and labourers; nor do we find excrement at the bottom of it. The nunlber of these cells is very differentX in diffierent hives. I think I have seen hives without any, and I have seen them with eleven or twelve, sometimes more. I have examin-ed them at alI times through the stlmmer, but never bund any alteration Ein them. The comb seems at first to be fornaed for propagation? and the reception of honey to be only a secondary use; iSor if the l3ees lose their queen, they make no combs; and the wasps hornet, &c. make combs, altllough they collect no honey; and the humble bee collects honey, and deposits it in ;cells she never made. I shall not consider the bee as an excellent tnathematfician capable of making exact forms, atid having reasoned upon the best sllape of the cell fbr capatity so that the greatest rlumber might be put into the smallest $pace (for the hornet and the wasp are much xnore correct although not seemingly Mr. HUNTERES Observatio-t on Bees.t-nder the same ruecessity, as t;hey collect nothing to OGoUpy their cells); because, although the bee is pretty perfec.t in these xespects, yet it is very incorrect in others, in the formation of the comb-: nor shall I consider these animals as forming cotuS of certain shape and size, from mere mecharlical necessity, as frozn vvForking rou-rld themselares; for such a mould would rlot form cells of different sizes, much less could wasps be guided by the same principle, as their cells are of very different sizes, and the first by much too small for the queen wasp to haveF worked round herself: but Ishall consicler the whole as an instinctive priciple, in which the atlimal has no power of variation, or choice, but suchas arises fromf what may be called external necessity. The cell has in common six sides, but this is most correct in those Srst formed; and their bottom is commotlly composed of th-ose sidesX or planes, two of the sides making one; and they generally i11 in bet-ween the bottoms of three cells of the. opposite side; but tllis-is not regular, it ise only to be fourld where there is no external interruption. I have already observed, that the last fc)rmed cells in the seasorl are rlot so well macle: that their partitionsare thicker, and lnoreofa-yellow Golour: this arises, Iitna;ine, from the rax being less pure, having more all:oy in it; and therefore not beirlg so strong, more of it is required. The bees sroulcl appear to reserve many of their cells for honey, andtllose are mostly at th:e upper part. In old:; hives, ofseveral years standing, I haxre found the upper part of tlle comb free froln the consequences of havirlg bred, such as the silk lining, and the excrem-ent of the magg-ots at the bottom; wllile the lower part, for probably more than one: half of the plane of cells, shewed strong m;arks of halring colltained many br-oods of yourlg bee$v. Mr. LIUNTER S ODSerUAtiONS on Bees.Insuch the lining of silk is thick at the sides, composed of many laminae; -and in many,-tlle bottorn is half filled up with excrement; and I observed at sllcll parts, the comb was tlliel<;est at its lnouth, wllich inclines rne to think) tilat w:llen a cell becomes shallow, by the bottom being in sotne degree filled up, tlle bees then add to its lmouth. Such also they seetn to reserve principally for the bee-bread; so that to lay up a greater store of honey is an object to them Of lbe Laying^-of Eggs. As soon as a few combs are fcormed, the female bee beglns 1ay ing of eggs. As far--as I have been able to observe, the queen is the only hee tllat propagates, althotagh it is asserted that tlae lad bourers do. Her first eggs ilthe seasox] are those which produce labouret s ; then the males, and probably the queen ; this is the progress in the wasp,hortlet, llumble bee, &c. However, it is asserted by RIEM, that when a hive is deprived of a queen, labourers lay eggs; also, that at this titne, some honey and farina are brought in, as store for a wet day. The eggs are laid at the bottotn of :the cell) and we find them tllere before the cells are half cornpleted, so that propagation begins early and goes on along with the formation of the other cells. The egg is attached at one end to the bottoln of the cell, sometimes statlding perpendicularly, often obliquely; it has a glutirlous, or slimy covertlg, svhich makes it stick to any thing it touchesX It woulel appear^ that there was a period or periods for laying eggs; for I have observed in a new swarm, that the great business of laying eggs did llOt last above a fortnight; although tile hive was not half filled with comb, it began to slacken Mr. HUNTER'S ()bservations on Bees.Probably that erld of the egg wilich is first protruded, isvllat which s:ticks to the bottom of the cell * and probably the tail of the rriaggot is formed at that eI<d: when they move the egg, how they n:lake it stick again, I do not know. I halre just observed, that they often move the egg out of a cell, to some other, vve may suppose ; why they do this, I cannot say; vllether it is because we have been exposing this partg is not easily determined In those new formed colubs, as also in many not half finished, we find the substance called bee-bread, azd some of it is covered over with wax ; which will be considered further. By the time they have worked aboure half way down the hive, with the comb, they are begilaning to forln the larger cells, and by this time the first broods are hatched, which were small, orlabourers; and now they beginto breed :males, and profbably a qucen, for a new ssvarm ; because the males are (llow bred to impregnatethe young queen Efor the present sutumer, as also for the Ilext year. This progt ess in breeding is the same with that ofs the wasp, hornet, and hunlble bee.* Altlwough this acsount is commonly allowed, yet writers on this stlbject have supposed another mode of producing a queen, when the hive is in possession of tnaggots, and deprived of their queerl. What may be called the complete process of the egg, namely, from the time of laying to the birth of the bee, (that is, the time of hatching,) the life of the maggot, and the life of the chrysalis, is, I believe, shorter than ill most insects. It is llot easy to * RE A U M U R on Bees, saysb that the drone eggs, when laid ill small cells, produce drones: and WILHELMI says, thdt it is the labourers only that lay drone eggs. Mr. -RIEM says, that queens are never reared in any-but royal cells, aIthough males -sometimes in commoll cells; and workers ih old qlleen cells, but never in those re-sentIy made. MDCC XG I I e X Mr. H-u NTER'S observatior ott Bee3.4M1s tlle tilue when t}le eggs hatc}l: I have been led to ima;gine it was in fiste days. NVhell they laatch) we find the young xnaggot lyitlg coiled up in the bottcum of the cell, ia some degree surrounded witll a transparent fluid. In many of tlle cells, where the eggs have just hatched, 0ve filld the skin statlding in its place either llOt yet rtlY10VEd Ol' NQt pressed dowz bythe lmaggot. There is rwosr all additional eluploylnent for the labourers, ralnely, the feeding and rtlrsillg tlle young tnaggcets \Ve may suppose the qtleen laas nothilg to do with this, as there are at all tinaes -labourers enotlgh in tile hive tor such ptlrposes,Cespecially too, as she nester does bring-the materials, as every other of the triM is obliged to ci-o at lSrst; tllereforea she seelns to be a queen by llereditaryn or ratlaer2 by nattlral right, rwhile the hlltnble bee, svaspv hornet, &c. seem rather to work theDmselrres illto royal-tyn or lmistresses of the commullity. The bees are readily detected feeding the youllg lmaggot ; and indeecl a young maggot might easily be brougllt up) by any person svho would be attelltiere to feed it. rlnhetr opell their tsnro lateral pincers to receive the food, and swallow itv As they grow they Gast tlleir GOt-S, or cuticles; but how often they throw theircoats while itl the lnaggot state I do not knonv. ;I observed that they oftell r-emoved their eggs; I also filld they veiy oftell shift the maggot xilltO anotller cell, evell whetl very larfge0. he nzaggots grow larger and larger till they nearly fi11 the cell; and by tllis tilme they require no more food, and are ready to be illclosed for the chrysalis state: how this period is (liscovered I do llot know, for in every other insect, as far as I -am acquaintecl, it is an operation of the maggot or caterpillar itself; but in the comzmon bee it is an operation of tlle perfbet azzilnal ; probably it arises froln tlae maggot refusillg food. Mr. HUNTER)S Obxrvations on ERees.lsS1the time between their being hatched and their being inclosed is, J beliese, fgr klays; at least from repeated obsersations, it conles rlearly to that titne: when ready for the chrysalis state, the bees cover over the mouth of the cell, with a substance of a light brovvrn colour, much in the same manner that they cover theb honey, excepting that in the present itlstance, the covering is convex externally, and appears not to be entirely wax, but a mixture of wax and fariiza. The maggot is now periectly inClosed, arld it begins to line tlle cell alld: covering-of the nlouth above ulentioned, with a silk it spins out similar to the silk-vwrorm. and which makes a kind of pod for the chrysalis. BONNET observed, that, in one ilastarlce) Xhe cell was too short for the chrysalis, and it broke its coveritlg, atnd formed its pod higher, or more convex thall comlxloll: this I can conceive possible ; we often see it in the wasp. Having completed this lining they cast off, or rather silove oS, from the head backsvards the last maggot coat wllich is deposited at the bottom of the cil, and then they biecome chrysalises. C)f tbe Food of the Maggot or what is corrznonly called Bee-Br-ead. C)ne srould naturally suppose, that tlile food of the nlaggcat bee should be hoiley, both becallse it is the food of the old onesg alld it is what they appear rincipally to collect for themselves; ho>tever, the circulmstance of honey being food for the olcl Q2S iSX no argutzielat. because very few youngD anitnals live Qu thesame food with theold, and therefore it is probalele tlle maggot bee does twt live -uponlboney ; alld if we reason firom analogy, we shall be lecS to supE)pse the bee-breacl to be the foodX 2 lssMr. HUNTER'S Obsersations on Bees.of tlae luaggot. It is the food of the maggot of the Xhumble bee, whozfeeds UpOll honey, al---even lays up a store of llozey for a wet day, yet does not feedthe young with it. It is the fc)od of the maggot; of a black bee, and also of several others of the solit;ary kind, who also feed UpOll honey ; and wasps, &c. who do not r bring in such materials, do not feed thenaselses upon holley. We canllot SUppOSe3 that the bee-bread is for thefood of the old bees, when we see them collecting it in the months of Jtlne, July, &c. at wllich titne they have holley in great plenttr. This substallce is as common to a hive as atay part belonging to the oec-onomy of bees . Before they haveformed five or six square irlches of cotnb in a young hive we shall find eggs honey, and bee-bread ; and at whatever time of the year we kill a hive, we shall find tlais substance ; and if a hiveis short of hoey, and dies in tlle winter we fild no honey, but all the bee-bread, which was laid up in store for tlle maggots in the sl?ring. trhey tAe great care of it for it is often covered over witll wax, as the honey alld I beIieve more especially in the winter; probably with a view to preserare it till wanted. In April I have foutld some of the cells full, others vnly half full. If we slit down a cell filled with tllis substance, we shall colnmonly find it composed of layers of diffierent colours; sc)me a deep orarlge, others a pale browrn. Ixl glass hives, vve often find that the glass makes one side of the cell, and frequently in such we sllall see at once the different st;rata above mentioned. This is the substance which they bring in on their legs, and consists ofthe farina of plants. It issnot the farina of every plantS that the bee collects, at least tliey are found gathering it from some with great industry, while wenever find them on others: St. John'sAwort is a favourite Mr. lluNTER s: observation3 on BeesOoS7plant? but that comes late. The flower of:t-he gourd, cucumber, &c. they seem to be fond of. What they do collect INUSt be thVe very loose stuff, just ready to be blown off-to impregnate the female part of trle flow-er ; and to shew that this is the caseX VvJe find bees impregnate flowers that have not the male part. It is in cornmon of a yellow cc)lour) but that of rely diffierent shades, Qfien of an orange; and svhen we see beesScollecting it on buffies that have a great many flowers so as to furnish a complete loalX it is then of the colour of the farina of that -bush It is curious to see them dieposite this substance in the cell. On viewing the hives, we often see bees with this substance on their legs) moving along on the combs as if looking out for thecell to deposite it in. rlnhey will often walk over a cell that has some deposited in it-but shall leave that, and try an other, and so on till they fiX; hich made me corlceive that each bee had its o-wll cell. When they come to the intended cell, they put their two hind legs into it, with the two fore legs and tlue trunk out on the moutTl of the neighbouring cell, alld then the tail) or belly, is thrust dowll into the intended cell; they then bring the leg under the bUlly5and turning the point of the tail to the outside of tlle leg, svhere the farina is, they shove it oWby the point of the tail. When it is thus shoved off both legss the bee leaves it, and the two pieces of farina may be seetl lying at the bottom of the cell: another bee comes almost: illlmediately and creeping into the cell continues about five minutes9 kneading arld working it dowZn into the bottomX or spreads it over svhat svas deposited there before) leaving it a srxlooth svrface. It is of a consisterlcy like paste l bllrtls slightlys and gives a ki-rld of unusual xsmell, probably from havillg been mised with 8Mr. HUNTER'S ObJervations on Bees.allimal juice in the act of k-lleading it down; for whell brougllt in, it is rather a powder thcan a paste. That it is tlle food of the maggot is proved by examinitlg tlle allimalvs stomacEl; lor when we kill a lnaggot full grosvn, we filld its stonach full of a similar substance, only softer, as if mixed svith a fluid, but we 1lever find Ilolley ill the stomach; therefore vvre clre to suppose it is collecteel as food for the maggot, as mtlch as holley is for the old be-e. Mr. SCHIRACH ilnagilles, that the semen of the male is tlle lood of the maggot ; but tlle food of the lzzale and tlle queen maggot has been supposed to be differellt from that of the labourers. REAUMUR says, the food of the queen maggot is differeIlt in taste from that of the c ommoll ones. How he kllew this, who was unacquaillted ^vitl the food of the others, I callnot conceive Of t1pe Excrement of tbe Maggot. They have very little excremellt, but xvhat they do discharge is deposited at the bottom of the cell; and what at first will appear rather extraordilaary, it is never cleared away by the bees, but allowed to dry alonO vith the maggot coats; and both fresh eggs and honey are deposited ill these cells, so circumstanced, every future yeal ; so that in time the cells become nearly half full. Of the Chrysalis State. In this state they are forming themselves for a new life: they are either elltirely new built, or wonderfully changed, for there is not the smallest vestige of the old form remail-ling; Mr. HUNTER'S -Observations on Bees.yet it must be the same materials, for nosv llothing is takell in. How {ar this change is only the old parts new modelled, odr gradually altering their form, -is noteasily determined. To bring about the chalage, many parts must be removed, out of svhich the new ones are probably formed. As bees are not different rin this state from the common flying insects in general, I shall not pursue the sllbject of theirchallges furtller; although it lnakes a very material :part irl theX natural history of insects. -When the chrysalis ris formed into the complete bee, it then destroys the cofirerilg of its cell, and comes forth. The time it continues in this state is easier ascertained than either in that o£ the egg, or the maggot; for tlle beesScatlnot move the chrysaliss as tlley do the two others. In olle instance it was thirteen days; and twelve hou-rs exactly; so tflhat all egg in hatchirlg being five days,-tlle age of the maggot being four daysX and the chrysalis -continuitlg thirteen and a llalf, the svhole makes tsnrenty-two daysSand a h-alf: but hosv far this is accurates I uzill rzot pretend to say. I found that the cllrysalis of a male was -fourteen days, but tlais was probably a-ccidental. Wllenf they first cozle out, they are of a greyisll colour, but s-o-on turlt brouTn. \Alhell the swarln of w7hicll I have hitherto been giVilzg the llistory has conze oWearly, and is ja large one, lnore especialIy if it was put into too small a hive, it often breeds too nzany for the hive to keep throlugh the wi:tlter; -and in suchS ase a new swart-n is thrown oS, whicl however, is comluonly ot a large one, and getlerally has too little time to complete-its comb, and store it witll honey sufficient to preserrre them througll-the winter. This issitnilar tot tlle secolldb or tllild swar-la-:oftSlze oldhives s60Mr. EIUNTER'S Observations on Bees.Of the Seasons, when tbe dyerent Operations of Bees take place. t liave already observed, that the new colony imlnediately sets about the increase of their numbers, alld every thing relating to it. They llad their apartments to build, both for the purpose of breeding, and as a storehouse for pros isions for the uZinter. When the season for laying eggs is over, then is the season for collecting honey ; therefole, when tlle last chrysalis for the season comes forth, its cell is immediately filled with laoney, and as soon as a cell is full, it is covered ourer with pure svax, and is to be considered as store for the vinter. Tllis covering ansvsters tBJo very essexltial purposes: one is to keep it from spilling, or daubing the bees: the other to prevent its evaporation, by whicll lllearls it is kept fluid in such a warmth. They are also employed in laying up a store of bee-bread for the young tnaggots in the spring, for they begin to bring fortl much earlier tTlan probably any otller insect, because they retain a summer lleat, and store up food for the youlag. In the tnollth of August we may su}vpose the queen, or queens, are impregnated by the males; and as the luales do not provide for themselves, they become burdensome to the workers, and are therefore teased to deatll much sooner than they othervise vould die; aad when tlle bees set about this business, of providing their winter store, every operation is over, except the collecting of honey and bee-bread. At tllis time it would seelll as if the males aere conscious of their dangerX for they do IlOt rest on the mouth of the hive in either HUNTER)S Observations on Beesgoing out or coming inn but hurry either inX or out. however . they are comlnonly attacked by on-e, tvo, or three at a titne. tIley seem to make-no resistance only getting away as ist as possible. The labourers do not sting thenz ollly pincla thems and pull them about as if to wear them out; but I suspect it may be called as much a natural as a violent deatla. The whole of the males are now destroyed azd iladeed it would have been useless to have saved any to impregnate the queen in the springe That there tnay be rnany more than tnay be-wanted I call easily believe, for this we seethroughout nature; but she aIways times her operatIons-well although there may be supernulueraries Whe-l the young are wholly colue forthv and either the cells entirely filled or no more honey to be collected then is the time, or season for remaining in their hives for the winter. Although I have I1OW completed a hive and no operatiolls are gOillg on in the wilater months yet the history of this hive is imperfect till it sends fortll a new swarmF As the co-mmon bee is very susceptible of cold, sve fnd assoon as the cold veather sets sn they become very quiet, or still and remaitl so throughout the winter livlng on the pro-duce of tlle sutnmer and autumn; and illdeed a cold day in the suxnmer is sufficient to lieep them at hotne more so than a shower in a warm day: andL if the hive is thin, alld muclS ex posecl, they 1vill hardly move in it, but get as clow together as the comb will let themX into a cluster.In this manner they appear to live tlarough the winter: however in a fine days they become very lively atld activet going abroad and appearing to emoy its at which time they get rid of their excretnent; for I fancy they seldom throw out-their exorement when in the MpGCXClI Y s6Mr. HIJNTER'S Observations on Beestlwive. To prosre this, I collfirled solne bees in a small hive,& and fe(l them witlo honey for some days; and the moment I let t11en out, they flesY, alad tllrew out their excrement ill large quantities; and therefore, in the vvinterv I presullle, they retai the contellts of their boxNels for a considerable time: indeed, wvlaen we consider their confitlelllent in the wintera and that they have no place to deposite tlaeir excrement, we can hardly account for tlae whole of this operatioll in thein. Their exerenent is of a yellovv colour, and accordirlg to their confinement it is found higher and higher up in the intestine, altnost as hsgh as the cropb Their life at this season of the year is more uniforln, and 1nay be termed simple existence, till the warm weather arrives agail] . As they now subsist on their summer's inclustry) they would seem to feed in proportion to tlle coldness of the season; for from eXperilnent) I found the hive grosv lighter in a cold week, than it did ill a w-arwmer, which led to fiurther experiments. I frst; made an experiment upon a bee hive, to ascertain the quantity of horley lost throug;h the winter. The hive svas put into the scale November the Sd, 1776. Oz. drams November loth it had lost e 7 17th 4 22 24th g 72 Decenber lst 8 2 8th 2 1 sth 2 2ed 4 3 2gth 4 9777 January lst ---ff S Mr. UNTER'S Observ£lons on Bees.163os. drams 3anuary fl 2th t had lost s M lgth 3 4 26th g 1 2 February 2d , o gth r, 7 O The whole 72og Althotlgh all irldeletlt state is very much the condotion of bees throllgh the winter, yet progress is makirlg in the queen towards a sumluer's iilerease. rrhe eggs in the oviducts are begillning to swell, alld, I believe, Ein the nlonth of March she is ready to lay them, for the young bees are to swarm ill June; whicla constitutes the queen bee to b@ tlle earliest breedor o£ atly itlsect we know. In consequence of this, the labourers become sooner emplDyed than any other of this tribe of insects. This botll queen and labourers are etlabled to accomplish, firom living in society through the winter; and it becolnes ne cessary in them, as tlaey llave tlaeir colotly to form early in the sutnmer, which is to provide for itself for the winter followirlg All this requires the process to be carried forward earlier than by ally other insect, for tllese are only to lzave young wlaich are to take care of themselves through the sumrner, not beillg under the necessity of providing for the winter. In the montil of-April, I fourld in tlle cells, youtlg bees, irl all stages, from the egg to tlle cllrysalis state; some of which were cllanged in their colour, therefores were tlearly arrived at the fly state, azd prolDably some might have flow-n. As this season is too early br collecting the provisiola of tlle maggc)t ahroadv the store of £irina colnes nonv into use X but as Y 2 16X4Mr HUNTERJS Qbservations on Bees.soon as floters begin to blow, the bees: gather tbe fresh, althougll they llalre farina in store, giving the fresh the preference. (2f tbe Q,ueen. The queen bee, as she is termed, has excited nzore curiosity than all the others, altholugh much more belongs to the labourers. From tlle number of these, and from thelr exposing themselves, tlaey have their history much better made out: but as there is oly one queen, and she scarcely ever seen, it beillg only the effects of her labour we can come at, an opportunity has beell given to the ingenuity of conjecture, and more has been said than can well be proved. She is allowed to be bred in the cotnmon way, only that there is a peculiar cell for her in her first stage; and REAUMUR says, " her food is dif" ferent when in the maggot state -;)} but as there is probably but one queen, that the wllole might not deperld on one life it is asserted that the labourers have a power of forming a com:non naggot into a queen. If authors had given us this as all opinion only, we might have passed it over as itnprobable, but they have-endeavoured to prove it by experimerlts, which require to be examined : and for that purpose, I shall give what they say on that head^*with my remarks upon it. Abstracts from Mr. SCHIRACH. The following experiments were tnade to ascertain the origin of the queen bee: " In twelve wooden boxes vere placed ;; twelve pieces of comb, four illches square, each containing Mr. HuNTERvsfobservations on Bees.165¢ both eggs and maggots, so suspended that the bees could <; cottttle round every part of the comb: in each box was ,shut up a handfill of working bees. Knowing that when bees " are formin; a quten they should be confined, $ the boxes c; were kept shut for two days. When examined at the end {; of that period (six boxes only were opened), irl all oftheln " royal cells were begutl, one, two, or three, in each; all of ; these containing a maggot four days old. In four days, the ;' other sis boxes were-opened and royal cells found ill each, cc containiIlg maggots five days old, surrounded by a large provision of jelly; alad one ofthese maggots, examined in ; the microscope? in every respect resembled a working bee. ( This experiment Bras repeated, alld the maggots se '-lected to be made queens were: three days Qold; and in sc seventeen days there ulere found in the-twelve l)oxes fifL ; teen lively, handsome queens. + lthese expez iments were ' made in May, and the bees were allowed to work great 4' part of the sumlner: the bees were examined one by one, {' but no drone could be discovered, and yet the queens were <' itnpregnated, and laid their eggs. + " The above experiment was repeated with pieces of comb, * Hoxv he came to know this, I cannot conceive, for nothing a przori could give such infiormation. t Now this account is not only improbable, but it does not tally with itselE First, it is not probable that a handful of bees should or would, set about making two9 three, or four queens, when we do not find that number in a large hive: and secondly, it seems inconsistent that only fifteen should be formed out of twelve parcels, when some of the former parcels had four yollng queens. t Here is a szonder of another kind: queens laying eggs, which (we must sup posX Mr. Sc H I R A C H meant we should believe) they hatched, without the innencc ef the male3 llfie HUNTER'S Qbservartions on Bees.-t66C; containing eggs only, ill six l)o£es, but no preparatiotls " were made towards producing a quten. t ;' The experiment of producing a queerl bee from a mag$ot ;' was repeated every month of the year, evela in November.t ' A maggot three days old was procured frorrl a friend, in' closed in an ordinary GEll, and shut up with a p-iece of comb, ' containing eggs and maggots. That three days old was ' fornzed into a queen, alad all the other maggcats and eggs '; were destroyed. 4. " Ixl above a llundred experiments a clueen has been formed c; f}oln maggots three days olcI.9> § WILHELMI ob$erves, that a queen cell ahllich is rnade while the bees are sllut up, iSs formed by breaking down three comtnon cells illtO one, when the nlaggot is placed in tlle centres after svhich the sides are repaired. A young queen lately hatched was put into a hive, which had been previously ascertairled to contain no drorzes, and whose queell was renloved; and yet tlaeyoullg queen laid eggs.ll In repeating Mr. SCHIRACLI>S experinwent, he shut up four ; * Why eggs, which we must collceive hatched, and prouluced maggots, did not forrli queens, orle cannot imagine. t In which month, as bees never swarm, there could be no occasion fior motherss or supernumerary queens, and stills each experiment pr;duced a handsome queen. This is as singular an observation as Fny. In this country, and in all similar ones, bees hardly breed after July, and by the begitltsillg of September there is hardly a chrysalis to be seen; yet these bred till November, and even laid eggs. t Why did the bees destroy them irl this experiment, and not in others ? § The working bees, from the above experiments, are considered as all fiemaless although the ovaria are too small for examination. It would appear that a maggot three days old was of the best age for this experi ment, yet one should have conceived that a maggot two days old wollld soon be-fit, 11 There is no mystery in this; but did they hatch ? Mr. HUNTER'S ObserzJations on Bees167pieces of comb, with one maggot in each; after two days the rnaggots were a11 dead, and the bees had desisted from labour. @ A piece of comb, from which a11 the eggs and tnaggots had been removed, was sllut tIp with some honey, and a certai nulnber of wtorkers; in a short time they became very busy, and upon the evening of tile second day 300 eggs were found in the cells. + He repeated this experiment with the satne result, and the bees were left to themselves: they placed queell maggots in tlle queen cells, newly constructed) and others in male-cells: tlae rest were left undisturbed. He again took two pieces of colubj which colltained neither eggs nor rnaggots, and shut them up with a certain number of workers, ancl carried the hox into a stove: next evening) one of the pieces of colub contained several eggs, and tlle beginning o£ a royal cell tllSat was empty. Besides the short observations-contaitled in the llotes) I begleave to observ-e, that I have my doubts respecting the whole of these experiments, from several circumstarlces svhich occurred in mine. The three following facts appear much ag;ainst theirprobability;; first, a sum-mervs evening ill this country is com-morlly -too cold for so stnall a parcel of bees to be lively, so as to set about new operations; tlleXyk get so benumbed, tllat they hardly recover itl the day, and I should suspect tllat wherethese experiments were madse (and indeed; some are said to; have been tried ill this country), it is also too cold: secorldly,. * This is the most probable event in the whole experiments. t This would show that labourers can lDe changed illto queens at will, and that neither they nor their eggs require to be impregnated ; if this f was the case,. there; would be no occasion for all the push in making a queexl or a male. Mr. HIJNTERES Observations on Bees.168 f the weather should happen to be so svarm as to prevent this effect, tllen they are so restless, tllat they -cornmonly de stroy themselves, or wear themselves out ; at least, after a few days confinenwnt we fitld them tnostly dead: axld thirdly, the accollnt gisten of the fornation of a royal cell, without mentioning the above inconvenience which is natural to the expe riment, nakes me suspect the whole to be fibricated. To obviate the first vljjectioll, which I found from experimellt to prevent any success that other0vise nzight arise, I put my parcel of bees, with their comb, in which were eggs, as also maggots, alld in some of the trials there were chrysalises, X into a warmer place, suchias a glass frame, over tan, the surface of which vv as covered vith mould, to prevent the risillg of unwholesome air: but froln knowing that the mcaggot WaS fed ith bee-bread, or farina, I took care to introduce a cell or two witll this substance, as also the flowers of plants that prodllce a-: great deal of it, likewSise some honey for the old ones. In this state my bees were preserved from the cold, as also provided with necessaries; but after being confined several days, upon opelling the door of the hive, what were alive came to the door, walked and flew about, but gradually left it, and on examining the combs, &c. I found the maggots dead, and rlothing like any operation going on * I ehose to have some ehrysalises, for I supposed that if my bees died, or flew away, the ehrysalises when they eame out, which would happen in a few days, not knovving where to go, might stay and take eare of the maggots that might be hatched from the eggs; but, to my surprise, I follud that neither the eggs hatehed, nor did the ehrysalises come forth; all died: from whieh I began to suspect that the presenee of the bees was neeessary for bOthe Mr. HUNTER)S Observations on Bees.o69The queen, the mother of all, in vxhatever way produc.ed, is a true female, and different from both the labourers and the male. She is not so large in the trunk as the male, -and appears fto be ratller larger in every part tllan the labourers. The scales on the urlder su-rface of the belly of the laburers are not uniformly of the same colour, over the whole scale; that part being lighter which is overlapped bzz the terminating scale above, and the ullcovered part beillg darker: tllis light part does not terminate in a straight line, but in t%to curves, snaking a peak; a11 which gives the belly a lightela colour irl the labouring bees: more especially when it is ptllled out or elongated. The tongue of the female is cotasiderably shorter than that of the labourirlg bee, luore like that of the male : llowever, the torlgues of the labourers are llot in all of an equal length but none have it so short as the queen. The size of tlle belIy of the female of such animals varies a little, according to the coladition 8Lhey are in: but-the belly of the lmale andl the labourer has but little occasion to change its size, as they are at all tilnes nearly in the satne conclition with regard to fat, having always plenty *f provisiotl : but t;he true female varies very considerably; she is of a different size and shape in theXsutnrner to what she is in thewinter; and irl the wirlter she has what may be called her natural size and shapeb she is, upon the svholeg rather thicker thala the labourer; and this thickness is also ill the belly, which probably arisesfrom the circulustance of the oviduct being irl the wilater pretty large, and the reservoir for semen fulls The termination of the belly is rathermore peaked than ill the lat ourers tlle last scale being rather narrower from side to siden and colu MDCCXC I I . % M. HUNTER'S ObserFvations on Bees.17ing lnore to a point at the anus. The scales at this season are uore overlapped, which can only be linown by drawing theln out. In the spring and sunlmer she is more easily distinguished: the belly is not only thicker, but considerably longer than formerly, wX hich arises frotn the increase of the eggs. We distinguish a queen from 1;he worliing bee) simply ly size, and in some degree by colour; but this last is not so easily ascertained, because the diXererlce ill the colour is not so remarkable in the back, and the conly view we can coXnmonly get of her is on this part; but wherl a hive -is killed, the best way is to collect all the bees, alad spread thetn on white paper9 or l?ut them into vvater, in a broad flat-bottomed shallown white dlsIl7 in which they swim; arld by looking at them singly, she may be discovered. As the quten breeds tlle first year she is produced, and the oariduct-s nearer entirely subsiden an old queen is probably thicker than a new bred one, unless indeed the ouriducts, and the eggs, form in the chrysalis state as in the silk-vvrorm, which I should suppose tTley did. l'he quten is perhaps at the smallest size just as she has done lareeding, for as she is tc) lay eggs by the montl:z of Marchs she must begin early to fill again; but Ielieve her oviducts are neYer emptied, having at all times eggs in them, although but small. She has fat ill her belly, simi]ar to the other bees. It is most probable that the queen which goes off mJith the swarm is a young one, forthe males go off with the swarm to impregnate her, as she must be impregnated the same years because she breeds the same year. T ze queen has a sting similar to the workitag bee. 11e. HUNT-tE'S Observatzons on Beest7tOJrlbe Sumber of DQueens in a Hz7nel I believe a hive or swarm, has but one queen, at least I have rzever found lnore than one in a swarm, or in an old hive iEl the winter ; and probably this is wllat constitutes a hive; for hell tllere are taro queens, it is likely that a division may begin to take place. Supernumerary qileens are nientioned by RIEM, vvrho asserts he has seen tilenl killed by the labourers, as well as the males. November 18th, 1788t I killed a llive thathad not swarmed the summet before, and xYhicll wtas to appearance ready to swarm every day; but svhen I supposed the season for swarming vas over, atld it had not swarmed, I begatl to suspect that the reason mIhy it did not was owing to there being no young queen or queens; and I found only one. Tllis is a kind of presumptive proof that I was right in my cotljecture; unless it be supposed, that when they were determined not to swartn, they destroyed every queen except one. In a hive that dieds I found no males, and only one queen. This circumstances that so few queens are bred, must arise from the natural security the queen is in fronl the mode of their society; for, although there is but one queen in a wasp's, hornet'ss and 11umble bee's nest or hive, yet these breed a great number of queens; the wasp and hornet some hundreds; but not livitlg in society during the winter, they are subject to great destruction, so that probably not one in a hundred lives to bre-ed in the summer. I have said that tlle queen leaves off laying in the month d July ; and novf she is to be impregnated by the males before t;hey diet Mr. RIEM assertss he has seen the copulatiola Mr. HUNTERvs ObservAtioVs on Bees.172betvsteen-the nzale alld the felnale, but does not say at uthat seasoll. I should doubt this S but Mr. SCHIRACH supposes the queen illzpregnated witTaout copulation. I know not whether he meaas by this that she is not impregnated at a11, and supposes, like Mr. DEBRAW, t;hat tlle eggs are impregnated after they are laid by a set of small dronesX who pass orrer the cells, and thrust theil tails dow-n into the cell, SO as to besmear the egg. g AIr. I30NNET does llOt consi(ler it necessary that t:he drones should be stnall for tllis purpose, for he saw a large drone passing over the cells of a piece of comb, stoppillg at every one wllicll contained atl egg but at no other, and giving a knock svith his tail on the mouth of the cell three times; t}zis lle supposexl was the mode of impregnating tlle eggs. The number three has alsvays been a famotls number; but it will not do where there are no males, which is the case of a hive in the spring, the time whell the queen is most employed in laying eggs; which made him suppose the use of the males was to feed the maggots with rtheir semen. It is probable that the copulation is like that of most othel insects. The copulation of the hllmble bee I have seen : it is similarfto t:he common fly. The sting is extended at the times and turned up oll the back, between the two animals: they are some time itl this act. In the hornet it is the sameX lthe circumstances relative to the inlpregnating tlle queennot being kllown, great room :has been given for conJecture, which, if authors had presented as conjectures onlyt it nwould have shewn their candour; but they have given, vvrhat ill them were probably conceits, a$ fact$ + Mr. DEB R AW, knowing-the drones died in the latter end of summer, or the -alltumn, was obligqd to suppose a small set of males, that lived through the winter9 :br that purpose. Mr. HUNTERss ObsEr4tlO8s Qn 3edS.173Of the Male I3ee. lthe male bee is considerably larger than the labourers: he ls evell larger than the queen, although not so long svhen she is in her full state with eggs: he is considerably thicker tllarz either but not longer ill the same proportion: he does not terrllirlate at the anus in so sharp a point; and the Qpening betweell the tsvo iast scales of the back and belly is largery alld more under the belly than in the female. His proboscis is much shorter than that of the labouring bee, which makes lne suspect he does not collect his own honey, but takes that which is brought home by the others; especially as we never fiXld the males abroad on flowers, &c. only {iying about the hives in hot weather, as if taking an airing; and when we lSnd tllat the male of the hulnble bee, which collects its own food, has as long a proboscis or tongue, as the female, I tlaink it is from all these facts reasonable to suppose? the male of the common bee feeds-at home. He has no sting. The males, I believe, are later in being bred tlaan the labouring bee As they are only produced to go off with a hive, they are not so early brought forth; for in the month of April I liilled a hive, in which I found maggots and chrysalises, but did not find any males among the latter: t ze maggots are-too young for such investigation ; but about the 20th of May we observed males: they are all very mucll of the same size. Tn the morlth of August, ?robably about the latter end, we may suppo.se they impregnate the qvleen for tlle next years and about the latter end of tlle satne xnonths and beginning of September they are dying but Mr. HUNTER'-S Observat.onsSon Bees.17+seem to be hastened to their end by the labourers. In t79lt as early as the lgth of Julle, I saw the labourers killing the males of a hive, or rather of a swarm, that had not yet ssvarmed8, but was hanging out; this, however, was olt of the common course. They appear to be selasible of theit fate9 for they hurry in and out of the hive as quick as possible seemingly Wit}l a view to avoid the labourers; and we fitld them attaclied by the labourers, who pinch them with their fotceps and whetl they are so hurt, and tratigued with attempts to lmake their escape, as not to be able to fly, they are thrown over on the ground, and left to die. That this is the fate of every }alale bee is easily ascertained, by exalnining every bee in the hive whetl killed for theE honey, wllich is after this season; no male being then fotmd in it. BONNET SUPPOSeS them starved to cleath, as 11e nerrer saw wounds on them. In the course of a winter I have killed several hives, some as late as April, and in such a way as to preserve every bee, and after examitling every one entirely, I never perceived one maleof any kind; although it has been asserted there are two sizes of rnales, and that the stnall are preserved through the svinter to impregnate the queen. Of the Labourirlg Bee. This class, for we cantwot call it either sex, or species, is the largestin llumber of the wholecommullity: there are thou sands of them to one queell, and probably some hundreds to each male, as we shall see by and by It is to be supposed they are tlze only bees which construct the whole hive, and that the queen has no other business but to lay the eggs: they are the on1y bees that bring in materials; the only ones we observ@ Mr. HUNTERSS Observatiov on Bees. 17S busy abroad; arl(lv indeed, tite idea of atly other is ridiculous, when we consider the disprcaportion iz rlumbers, as well as the employment of t<tle otllers, while the workirlg bee has laothitlg to take off its atterltion to the busilless of the fitnily. They are smaller tllan either the queen or the males: not all of equa size, although tlle diff2eretlce is not very great. Wthe queen and tile working bees are -so much alike, that the latter srould seetn to be females on a diffierent SGa1e: however this di-fference is not so observable in the beginning of witlter as in the spring, when the queen is full of eggs. They are all fenales in constructiorl, havi:ng tshe fetnale parts, which are extremely small, and would be easily 0X7erlooked by a persola not very well acquaitlted with the parts in the queen: this has been observed by Mr. RIEM; illdeed, one tnight suppose that they were ozlly young queens, and-that they became queetls after a certain age; but this is noXc the case. They all llave stings, which is anotiler tlling that makes them silililar to tlae queel<. From their beirlg furnished with an instrv;lluent of defence alad offience, tlley are endowed with such powers of mind as to use it, their minds being extretnely irritable; so much so, that they make an attack when not meddled with, sitnply uporl suspicion, and when they do attack, they always stirlg ;and yet, from the circumstance of their not being able tor disengage the sting, one should stlppose they woulsl be more cautious in striking with it. When they attack one another5 they seldom use it, only their pincers: yet I saw two bees engaged, and one stung the other in the mouth, or thereabouts and the sting was drawn from the body to which it belonged, and the one who was stung rall very quickly about with it ; but I could not catch that bee,to observehow the sting was situatedOs 176-Mr. HUNTER'S ()bservations on I3ees.As they are the collectors of honey, much more than what islfor their own usen either immediately, or in future, their torlgue is proportionably fitted for that purpose: it is considerably longer than that of either the queen or the male, which fits them to take up the honey from the hollow parts of flowers, of considerable depth. tlnhe mecharlism is very curious, as will be explained further on. The number of labourers in a hive varies very considerably. In one hive that I killed there were -33g8 In anotller 44yg In one that died, there vvZere 2432 That I might guess at the number of bees from a gisren bulk, I counted what number atl alehouse pint held, hen svet, and found it COlltained 2160 Therefore, as some swarnas will fill two quarts, such must consist of near gooo C)f the Parts concerned! in tbe Nourisbment of the Bee. Animals who only swallow food for thetnselves, or whose alimentary or;gans are fitted w}<olely for their own nourishment, have then adapted to that use only; but iI1 many, these organs are common for more purposes, as in the pigeons atld likewise in the bee. In this last, sotne of the parts are used as a temporary reservoir} holding both that which is for the immediate nourishment of the anitnal, arld also that which is to be preserved for a future day, in the cells formerly described ; this last portion is therefore thrown ul3 again, or regurgitated. aAS it is the labourers alone ill the comlnon bee that are so employed, we Inight £onceive this reservoir would belong only Mr. HUNTER'S Obserrations on Bees.s Wtu; t them; but both the queen arld males, botll in the common and humble bee,have it, as --aIson I believe, every one of the bee tribe. As the bee is a remarkableinstance of regllrgitation it is necessary the structure of the parts concerned in this operatioll, and which are alsoconnected with digestion, should be well considered. Ruminating animals may be reckoned :regurgitating animals, but in them it is for tlle purpose of digestion entirely in themselves. But many birds rnay be called reg;ur gitating anirnals and in them it is for the purpose of feedirlg their young. Crovtts fill their fauces making a kind of craw out of svhich they throvs back the food when they feed their yollng: but the most reInarkable is the dove tribe, who first fill their crasv,< and then throw it up illtO the beak of their young$. The bee has this power to a remarkable degree} not, hosvevern for the purpose of feeding the young, but it is the mode of depositing their store when brought home. In none of the above-mentioned regurgitatinganimals ax the reservoirs containing the food, the itnmediate organ of diS gestion > nor does the reservoir for the honey in the bee appear .. . . to be its stomach. The tongue of the bee is the first of the alimentary organs -to be considered: it is of a peculiar structure, and is probably the largest tongue of any animal we know, for its size. It may be said to consist of three parts respecting its length, having three articulations. One, its articulation with the head, which is in some measure similar to our larynx Then comes thebody of the tongue, which ls composed of two parts; one, a kind of base, on which the other, ol * Fide Observations on certain parts of the animal oeconolny? p4 I9I. --MDCCXCII. A a 178llq)n. HiUNTERS Observationson Be-e&.truetongue, is articulated. This first part is principally a horny substance, in which there is a groorre, and it is articulatedWitll the first, or larynx; on the end of this is fixed the true tongue, witla its di;fferent parts. These two parts of the tongue are as it were inclosed laterally, by two horny scales, one on each side, which are conGave on that side next: to the torlgue; oneedge is thicker than the other, and they do not extend so fir as the other parts. Eacll of these scales is composed of tsvo parts, or scales, respecting its length, one articulated with the otlaer: the first of those scales is articulated with the common base, or laryxas, at the articulation of the first part of the tollgue, and incloses laterally t:he second part of the tongue, coming as far forwards as the third articulation on the end of this is articulated the second scale, wllich continues the hollow groove that incloses the tongue laterally; this termitlates in a point. These scales have sonle hairs on their edge. -On the terminatiotl of the second part, is placed the true t-olzg-ue, having t\VQ lateral portions or processes} on each side, one svithin the other: the external is the largest, alld is somewhat similar to tlae before-mentiolled scales. This is composed of four partsS or ratherr of one largepart, on which three smaller are-articulated, havitlg lnotlotl on thelnselves. The first, orl which the others standa is articulated at the edges of thetongue, on the basis, or termination of the last described part of tlle tollgue-: this hashairs orl its edge. A little further forwardsorlthe edges of the tongue are twostnall thitl processes, so small: as hardly to-be seen with the naked eye. The middle part of all, of whichi these lateral parts are only apperIdages, is the true tongue. It is something Mr. SIENTERSS Obsersations on Bees-.-1yglonger than any of tlae before-nerltioned lateral portions; and is not hortly, as the other parts are, but what may be called fleshy, beitlg soft and pliabie. It is conzposed of short sections, which probably are so many short muscles, as in fisll; for they are capable of rnoving it irl all directiotls. rrhe toilgue itself is extreWely villous, havirlg some rrery long villi at the pOiIlt, which act, I conceive) somesvhat like capillary tubes. This whole apparatus can lbe folded up, into a very small compass, under the head and Ileck. The larynx falls back into the neck, which brings the extreme end of the first por-tion of tlle tongue withitl tlle upper lip, or behinct the tWQ teeth; thell the whole of the second part, which consists of five parts, is bent down upon and under this first part, and the two last scales are also bent down ovSer the whole; so that the trtle tongue is inclosed laterally by the two second horny sc-ales,and over the whole lie the two first. Tlle oesophagus, gin a11 of this tribe of insects, begins just at the root of the tongue, as in other animals, covered anteriorly hy a horny scale, which terminates the head, arld which may be called the upper lip, or the roof of the mouth. It passes dow-n through the neck and thorax, and when got into the abdomen, it immediately dilates into a firle transparent bag, whicll is the immediate receiver of whatever is swallowed. From this the food (w7hatever it be) is either carried further on i-nto the stomach, to be digested, or is regurgitated for other purposes. To ascertairl this in sozne Elegree, in living bees, I caught them goirlg out ear]y in the-morning, and fourel this bag quite empty: some time after I caught others re-turning la-ome, arld found the bag-quite full of honey, andS some of it had A a 2 Mr E1UNTERES Observations onS Bees.got into the $tomach. Now I suppose that which was itz the crasr, was for the purpose of regurgitation; and as probably they had fasted during the night, part had gone on fur ther for digestioll. Whatever time the contents of this reser voir may be retained, :Nve never find thetn altered, so as to give the idea of digestion having taken place: it is pure honey. From this bag the contents caIl be moved either way; either dowllwards to the stomach, for the ilumediate use vf the anilBal itself; or back again, to be thrown out as store for future aliment. Thefstomach arises from the lower end, and a little on the right side, of this bag. It does-not gradually contract into a stomach, nor is the outlet a passage directly out, but in the centre of a projection which enters some w-ay into the reservoir, being rather an inverted pylc)rus, thickest at its most pro3ecting part, vith a very small opening in the centre, o:f a peculiar construction. This inward proJectitlg part is easily seen through the coats of the reservoir, especiallv if full of honey. The stomach begins immediately on the outside of the reservoir, and the same part which projects into the reservoir, is continued some way into the stomach, but appears to have no particular construction at this end; and therefore it is only fitted to prevent regurgitation into the reservoir, as such would spoil the honey. This construction of parts is well adapted for tlle purpose; for the etld projecting into tlle reservolr, pr@vents any honey from getting into the stomach, because it acts there as a valare ; therefore whatever is taken in, must be by an action of this vascular part The stomach hafs a good deal the appearance of a gut, especially as it seems to Mr. HUNTER}S Observations Qn Bees.z81come out from a bag. It passes almost directly downwards in tlle mlddle of the abdonaen. * Its inner surface is; very mllch increased by having either circular valves, somewhat like the flvalvulg conni7>entes in the human jejanum,0 or spiral fo]ds, as in the intestine of the shark, &c. ; these: may be seen througla the exterr)al coats. In this part the food undergoes the change. Where the stomach terminates, is not exactly to be ascertained; but it soon begins to throw itself into convolutions, alld becomes smaller. The intestine makes two or three twists upon itself, in which part it is enveloped in the ducts, constituting the liver, and probably the pancreas, and at last passes otl straight to the termination of the abdomen. H:ere it is capable of becoming very large) to serve upon occasion as a reservoir, containing a large quantity of excrement: it then contraGts a little, and opensunder the posterior edge of the last scale of the back above the sting in the female and labourerst and the penis in the male. Of the Senses of Bees, Bees certainly have vlle five senses. Sight none can doubtv Feeling they also have; and there is every reason for supposing tlley have likewise taste, smell, and hearing. l'aste we callnot doubt: but of smell we may not have such proofsyet, from observation, I think thqy give strong signs of smell. When bees are hungry, as a young svvrarm in wet wteather, atld are in a glass hive, so that they can be examined, if we put sotne honey into the bottom, it vill immediately breed a comlnotsoll; they all seem to be-upon the scent: earen if Mr. lIuNT;Sa's Obserrations an Be@ss82they are weak, and hardly able to crawl, they will throw out thei-r probosces as far as possible to get to it, although the light is very faint. This last appears to arise more from -smell than seeing. If some bees are let loose ln a lee hive, and do not know frolll which hotase they camen they will take their stand upon the olltside of some hive, or hives; especially when the eveiling is coming on: whether this-arises from the smell of the hives, or Csot nd, I cari hardly judge. ()f the Voice of Bees. B-ees may be :said to have a voice. They are certainly ca pable of forming several sounds. They give a sourld when flying, which they can vary accordirlg to circumstances. One accustomed to bees, can immediately tell when a bee makes ar attack, by the souncl. Tilese are probably made by the wings They may be seen standing at the door of their hive, with the belly rather raised, and mov<ng their wings, making a noise.But they produce a nolse independent of their wings; for if a bee is smeared all over with honey, so as to make the wings stick together it will be found to make a noise, which is shrill and peevish. tl'o ascertain this further, I held a bee by the legs, with a pair of pincers; and observed it thetl made the peevish noise, although tlae wings were perfectly still: I then cut the wings off, and found it made the salue lloise. I examined it in water, but it thetl -didR not produce the noise-, till it was rery much teasedX and thell it macle the same kind o£noise; and I could observe the water, or rather the surface of tontact of the water with the air at the mouth of an air-hole 1W HIJNTERJS Observations on Bees.at the root of the wingvibrating. I have obsersred that theys or some of them, make a noise the evenings before they swarm, wilich is a kind of ring, or sound of a stnall trumpet: by comparing it with the notes of the piano forte, it seemed to be the same vzJitll the lower A of the treble. fXf the Female Parts. I may here observe, that insects differ from most ofthe classes of animals above them, in havirlg their eggs formed in the ducts along which they pass; not in a cluster on the back, as in some fish (for instance all of theray kind, or what are called the amphibia), in the bird, arld as is supposed in the quadruped;; from thence the eggs are taken up, and by the ducts are carried along tQ their places of destillation Of tbe Oviducts. The female of the common bee, similar to all the femalest of the bee tribe, has six oviducts on each side, beginlling by rery small, and altnost imperceptible tljreads, as-high as the chest: they then form olle cord coiled up, or pass very serpentine, and b@come larger and larger as they approach the anus; osving to the gradual inereased size of the eggs in them, which are now more distinct, ancl give the duct a sort of interrupted appearance, toward the 10w7er end. The six ducts, when full of eggs? make a kind of qu;adrangle; then a11 unite intoone duct, which enters the duct commorl to it and the oviducts of the other side. The ducts common to the six orriducts oll each siden are extremely tender; so much so, that it is difMr. HUNTERJS Obserrations on JBees.184ficult to save them. The duct common tothose on both sides may be called the vagina, and it is continuedto the anus, or termination of the belly. Of the Male Parts. The male parts of generation, in the colzllnon bee, are much larger than in the humble bee This we suppose necessary, considering the vast nunaber cf eggs the common bee lays, more than the humbleo bee does. The external parts of generation of the male bee, are rather more under the belly, than in the others of this tribe; not so much at the termirlation of the belly; and they are rather more exposed, the two last scalesX especially the under one, not projectirlg so much: the two holders are not so projectirlg beyond their base, nor are they sv Sl(30ked, or sharp, as in the humble bee; hardly deserving: the name of holderse From the external parts, passes up into the abdomen a pretty large sheath, whose termination illcloses the glans penis. It is a bulbous part, -harring a dark coloured hortly part upon it which has two processes near its opening externally, one on each side, of a yellow colour : it has another process, which is hite3 and seelns to be a gland. It can be tnade to pass along this sheath, or prepuce, and appear externally: I have been able with a pair of forceps, to inrrert the sheath, be-ginlling externally at the mollth, and pulling out a little at a time, by shifting my hold, tillSthe glans has appeared exX ternally. The internal parts are the testicles, with tlleir appendages. The testicles are two small oblong bodies, lyingSnear the Mr. tiUNTER'S Observations vn Bees.18sback, having a vast number of air-vesseRs passing irto them, and ramifying upon them. They are of a pale yellowish colour. From their lonter ends: pass down ductsn which 7lay be called vasa deferentin, and which erlter tsvo bags: these tsvo bags, into wlaich the vasa deferentia etltern are proiably reservoirs for the semen. From the union of these two bags passes out a duct, whichruns towards the terminatiorl of tlle abdomen, and erlds in the perlis. These three parts, namely testicles with their ducts, the t-Mto bags, and the duct arising frotn them, svhich I harre termed 1lretllra, are all folded on each other, so as rzo appear as one body. In the introduction to this account of bees I obserared, that several things in their cono^ny mighe escape us if we considered thetn alone, but lnight be lnade out ill other insects: an instance of this occurs in the impregnatiorl of the female bee. The deatla of the males in the tnonth of August, so that llOt one is left, and yet the queen to breed in the month of March, must puzzle any one not acquainted with the mode of impregnation of the fetnales of rnost insects. Insects, respecting the males, are-of two kinds: one, where the male lives through the winter, as well as the fetuale; and the other, where every male of that species dies before the winter comes on; amon; which may be corlsidered, as a third, those where both male and fetnale dit the same year. Of the ISrst, I shall only give the commorl fly as an instance; of the second, I shall just mention all of the bee tribe; and the third tnay-be illustrated irz the silk-worlu The mode c)f irtlpregilation in the first, is its being continued uninterrupredly through the whole period of layirlg -eggs; wilile in the second, the copu lation is in store; alld, in the thircl tTle female lays up, by mDGcxcIr B h 6FMr. IIUNTEP\S Obser7vtions on Eees.tlle cop-vllatioz, a store of sernen9 altlloug;h the male is alive: of this I shall now give an expla-natisn in the silk-moth, which may be applied to the bee, and: marly other irasects. In dissecting thc female parts in the sillk-mothg I discovered a bag lyillg on wl@at may be called the vagina, or common orriduct, shose tnoutll, or opening, was extertlal, but it had a canal of comnlunication betw-een it alld the commoll oviduct. Irl dissectillg these parts before copulation, I found this bag emptyn arld w-hell I dissected t}lem after, I found it full. Suspecting this to contairl the semen of the male, I immediately conceived the following experiment: I opened theX female as soon as tlle male had united to her, and fotlnd the penis in tlle opersing of this bag, and by opening the duct where: the penis lay, I obserared the semen lyilag on the etld of the penis. In anotlaer, I observed the bag to fill ill the time of copulation: -and in a pair khat dled in the act, I found the penis in this passage. : VVhen we consider tlae impregnation of the egg in the silkvorm, we may observe the follon7ing cix cumstances: First, luany of the ova are completely formed, and covered^ svith a }aurd shell? before copulation: secondly, the animals are a vast while in the act of copulatiotl : arld thirdly, the bags at; the anus are filled during theztime of copulation. From tlle first observation it appears, that the egg can receive the male influence through the hard or horny part of the shell. TQ know hovvt far the whole, or only a part of the eggs, were impregnated by each copulation, rI tnade the following experiments. I took a female just emerged out of her cell, and put # All these experiments on the silk-moth tere begun in the summer I767, and repeated by Mr BELL iIl the year I770* Mr. HUNTER'S Qbservations on Bees.l87a male to her, and allowed them to be connected their full tilne. They vvere in copulatio-rz ten hours I thell put her itzto a box by herself, and when she laid her eggsX I numbered the dlf ferent parcels as she laid them, viz. 1, , , 4, s; these eggs I preserved, arld itl the surnmer following I perceived tllat th:e No. S was as prolific as the No. X ; so that this one copulation was capable of impregrlating the whole brood: and tilerefore the xuale influence must go either along the oviduct its -Xvhole length9 and impregnate tlle incom-plete eggs, as sve11 as the Gompleten which appears to me not likely; or those not yet formed were inpregnated from the reservoir in the act of laying: for I cotlceived tllat these bags, by containing seInen had a power of impregnating; the egg as it passed along to the anus, j:ust as it traversed the mouth of-the duct of comnunicatione Findirsg that eggs completely formed, could be impregnated by the semen, and also finding that the before-mentioned bag svas a reservoir for the semen till wanted, I wished next to dis cover if they could be impregnated from the semen of this bag t but as this must be done without the act of coplllation, I col1ceived it proper, first to see wvhether the ova of isects lllight be impregnated without the natural act of copulation, by applying the male semen over the ova, just as they were laid The following experiments were made -on the silk-moth: EXPERIMENT I. I took a female nzoth, as soon as slle escal?ed frotn her pod, arld kept her carefully by herself, upon a clean card,\till she began to lay -; then I took males that were ready for copulaB b t 8Mr. 1HUNTFXR'S Observations on Bees.tiora, opened thetn? exposing their seminal ducts, §tld after cutting into these, collected their semen with a hair pellcil: with this semen I covered the ova, as soon as they passed out Of the vagina. Tlle card with these eggs, having a written tCCOU11t of the experiment upon it, I kept in a box by itself In the enslling season, eight of the ova hatched at tne same time with others naturally impregnated. Thus, then, I ascertained that the eggs could be impregnated by art, after they were Iaid. The ova laid by fetnales that had not been lmpregnated, did 1lot stick svhere they were laid: so that the semen would arppear not only to impregnate the orra but also to be the neans of attaching them. lto know whetller that bag in tlle female silk-motll, wlllch increased at the time of copulation was iLSlled with the semen of the Inale, I made the followitlg experirnent : EXPER IMENT T r . Iitook a female moth, as sovn as she had escaped from the pod, and kept her on a card till she began tv lay I then took fetnales that were fully impregnated before they began to laya and dissected out that bag nthi(>h I supposed to be the receptacle for the male semen; and sretting a camel hair pellcil with this lllattern covered the ova as soon as tiley passed out of the vagina.These ova were laid carefully on the clear card, and kept till the ensuing season-, whetl they all hatched at the same time with those naturally itnpregnated. This proves that thi$ bag is the receptacle for the semen and gradually decreases as the eggs are laid Mr. HUNTER'S Observations on 13ees.189Of tbe Sting of the Bee. I have observed that it is only the queen and the labourers that have stings; and this proVisiOn -of a sting is perllaps as curious a circulnstance as any attendin$ the bee, and probably is one of the characters of the bee tribe. The apparatus itself is of a very curious construction, fitted for inflicting a wwound, and at the same tilne conveying a poison into that wound. The apparat;us consistXs of t-wo piercers, -condllcted in a groove, or director, which appears to be itself r;he sting. This groove is somehat thick at its base, but terminates in a point; it is articulated to the last scale of the upper side of the abdomen by thirteen thin scales, six on each side, and one behind the recttlm. These scales inclose, as it wereX the rectum Qr anus a11 round; they can hardly be said to he articulated to eacll other, only attached by thill membranes, which allow of a variety of tnotions; three of theln, however, are attached nore closely to a roulld and curved process, which comes from the basis of the groove in which the sting lies, as also to the curved arm-s of the sting, which spread out externally. The two stings tnay be said to begin by those two curved processes at their union with the scales, and converging towards the groove at its base, which they enter, then pass along it to its point. They are serrated on their outer edges, liear to the point. These two stings can be thrust out beyond the grcrove, although not far, and they can be drawll within it; and, I believe, call be molred singly. All these parts are moved by tnuscles, which we-may suppose areE very strong in them, much stronger than in other arsimalsX Mr. tIusTaJs Obserrtionszon Bees.19Oand these muscles give motion n aImost all directions, balt luore particularly outsvards. It is wetlderful how deep they will pierce solid bodies urith the st-i. I lzave examined the lengtl tlaey have piercedg the palul of the lland, which is covered svith a thick cuticle: it laus often been about the Itz of an ilth. To perform this -by mere force, tvvo thitts are ne cessary, power of muscIes, and strength of the sting; neither of which they seern to possess itl sufficient deg;ree I own I do not understand this operatlon. I atn apt to conceive there is sometllirlg in it distinct fronl simpte force applied to one end of a body; for if this was simply the caseX the sting of the bee coulel not be made to pierce by any power applied to its baseg as the -least pressure bends it in any directicon: it is possible the serrated edges may ass-ist by cllttirag their way * 1 *1 sn, 11xe a saw. The apparatus fcor the poiserl conSists of two small ductss Fthich are the glallds that secrete the poison: these two lie in-the abdomen atnong the aircells) &c.: they both unite into ones hich soon enters illtO or abrms an oblong bag9 like a bladder of urille; at tlae opposite end of which passes out a duct, wllich runs towards the angle where the tw-o stings meet; and entering betwee the tsvo stings, is continued between them in a groove, which forms a canal by the union of the two stlngs to this poirlt. There is another duct on the rigllt of that described above, which is not so circutnscribed, atad contaills a thicker matter, uthich as far as I have been able to iudge enters alollg wtith the other * but it is the first that conta1ns the pOiSollg fwhich is a thin clear fluid To ascertain which vvtas the poison,-I dipped points of needles into bothn axld pricked the back of the hand; and those . tiUNTER'S Obserrations on Bees.1'91punctures that had the fluid frorn the firstvdescribed bags in them grew sore and inflamed, while the others did not. From the stings having .serrated edgesn it is seldom the bees can diserlgage them; azad theyixntnediately upon stinging endeavour to make their escape, but are generally preventeds as it ver e caught itl their OWI1 trap; alld the force they use commonly drags out tlne whole of the apparatus for stinging, and also part of the bowels; so that the bee tnost frequently falls a sacrifice itnmediately upon having eiected its purpose. UPQn a superficial view, one conceives, that the first itatention of the bee han7ing a sting is evident; c)rle sees it has property to defendg and that therefore it is fitted for defience; but why it should naturally fall a sacrifice in its own defierlce, does not soA readily appear: besides, all bees have stings, although all bees have not property to defend, and therefore are not under tlle same necessity of being so provided. Probably its having a sting to use, was sudicient for nature to defend the bee, &titllout u$ing it liberally; atld the loss of a bee or two, whet they clid sting, ras of no consequence; for it is seldom that ! more clle. I have now carried the operations of a hisre, or the aeconomy of the bee, compietely round the year; in whicll time they relrolve to the first point wezset out at, and-;the continuan£e i5 Only a repetition:of the same revolutions as I harre Jnow described . but tllose revolutiolls occasion a series of effects in the comb, which effects irl time produce variatiolls ill the life of the hiveX Besides, there are obser^rations that have little to do with the oeconomy of a year, butinclude the whole of the life of this insect, or at least its hive. Mr. HIJNTER'S 07vservtions on Bee$192Of the Life OJr the Bee. I have observed that the life of the rnale is only one suln mer, or rather a month or two; and this sve knosv from there being none in tlae svinter, otherwise their a;e could not be asceltained, as itis impossible to learll the age of eith-er tlaequeen or labourers. S(3me suppose that it is the young bees which swarm; and most probably it is so: but I tohinl it is probable also, that a certain number o:l: yo32Tang ones may be retained to keep up tlle stock, as we tuust suppose that many of theold ones are, frotn aJcciderlts of various kitlds,lost to the hive; and we could cc>zce+res that a hive three or four years old rnight nczt have an origirzal bee in ;t, although a bee might live twice that time. But there lllust he a period for a bee to linre; and if I were to judge from analogy, I shouldsay, that a bee's llatural life is limited to a certain number of seasons; vize one bee does not live one year, :another two, atlotller three, &c:. I evell conceive that no individual insect of any species lives orle luonth longer than the others of the same species. I belierle this is the case wlth all insects; but the age of either a laboaArer or a queen may never be discovered. One might suppose that the life of a bee, and the tinie a hive can possibly last, would be nearly equ-al: altlloughs this is not absolutely necessary, because they can produce a successioll, which they probably do; for I arn very ready to imagine, that after the first brood in the season, all the last winter bees die, and the hive is occupied with tllis first brood; and that they breed the first swarm or ME. HUNTERVS Observations on Bees 19S, that the old breed the whole of 3this season's breeding, and then dies and-those that continue through tlle winter are the young; and if so, then they follow the same course with their proge<itors. The comb of a hisre may be said to be the irnlture and storehouse of the beesa which by use wear out; and froln the description I halre given) it wi]l appear that the comb in titne will be rendered unfit for use. I observed, that they did not cleatl out the excrement of themaggot, and that the maggot before it moved into the cllrysalis state, lIned the w11 with a silk, similar to-many other insects. It lines t}e whole cell, top, sides, alld bottom; the two last are permanent } and at the bottom it covers with this linlng its own excrement. $ Why the bee maggot is formed to do this, isfi proltably, because honey afterwards is to be put into this cell; Sso that the holley is laid into this-last silken bag How often they may breed in the same cell T do not knows but I have known thetn three times in the same season ;each time the excrement has beetl accurnulating? atld the cell has been l;tled three times with silk*. . From this account we must see that a ceIls in time, will be so far filled up as to render it utfit for breedingt Orl separatifng tlLle lining of silk, wthich is easiest done at the bottom on account of the dried excrement between each lining, I have counted above twellty ditEerent linings in xe-cell, and £bund the cell about one quarters or one;third filledH up: whell such a cell or a piece of comb wtith such cells is steeped in svater, sc) a$ to soften the excrement between the linings thqy are sepa"£ This neither the wasp nor horllet do, althougll they do not clean out the excemen-t of-their maggots MDG-C XC I I . C c Mr. HUNTER)S Observa-tions on Bees.<94t^at-ed firom -each other at the bottom by the swelling of t-he exerement,l so that theycan be: easily counted. A piece of comb so circumstanced, whenboiled for tlue ntax, will keep its form, and the small quantity of svas is squeezed out at different parts, as if squeezed out of a sponge, and rlx-n5 together into the crevices: while-a Cpiece of comb, that never has been bred in, everl of the same hive, nzelts-almost uholly-down. -It is this wax that -tias the fine yellow, while the-other of the satne hives, altllollgh br-own, yet shall be white rhen melted; so that I vvas ledto imagine thewax took itstillge fl"om the farina, exerement, &c. but upon boiling pure was0wi:th -such materials, it was not tinged with4this transparelat yellov-, only becalme dirty. In some of those cells that had probably been bred -in twenty times, or more, when soaked so a$ to make the excrement swell, I have seen the bottom of the last linirlg rise even with themouth, or topiof the cell,; so that the:cavity of the cell Kwas now full: in otl?iers, Ishave seen it -rise lligher than the mouth, so that the last formed l-ayers were alrnost inverted, and turned inside otlt. A piece of su-eh comb, consisting of tvvo rows of cells, ls to be considered as amould, and the lining of sil:k and the-;excre_ ment as the cast ;when this is boiledn so:as either to extract all the wax or mould,or to destroy its original rep,ular formation vfhich constituted the cornb, and nothing-is left but tlle cells of silk, &c. they all easily separate from each otherbeing-only so many casts, with the mould destroyed; and the bottotns, which were indIented into each other) are very perfect. -; :0 From the above account we must see thatthe combs of a hifire can only last a certaitl number of years; how-ever, to make t}lem last longer3 the bees oftell add a little to the mouth Mr. MARSDEN'S Correction of an Er.195ofthe cell, which is seldom done with wa:x alones but with a mixture; arld they sometimes cover the silk lining of the last chrysalis; but all this 1nakes such cells clumsy, in colnparison to the original ones. To CHARLES BLAGDEN, M. D. Sec. R. S. DEAR SIR IN a Paper on the Chronology of the HINDOOS, which the Society did lne the honour to pritlt in tlle LXXXth Volulne of their Transactions, I have said (p. S66 and 570) that the era of Bikrolmajit comlmences in the year 56 before Christ, and that tTle year 1846 corresponds with our year 1790 (frotn April) : but it appears frorn an examination of the nutubers of an original Benares allnanack, that I have calculated the elapsed time of that er-a one year short (by comparison with the era of Salab in, xrllicl1 being employed in astronomical computations is sufficiently ascertained), and that the year 184,7 not 184,6> bsh-ould correspond with 1790, and the columencement of the era with the year 57 before Christ, both from April. I tdS very desirous that this trror should be noticed as soon as possible, and request that the correction may have a place in the Volume nosv printiIlgo I am, dear Sir, &ce WM. M4RSDEN. 