XXVIII. A further Account of the Case of William Carey, whose Muscles began to be ossified: In a Letter to the Right Honourable the Lord Cadogan, F. R. S. from the Rev. William Henry, D. D. F. R. S. My Lord, I Should have long before this time acknowleged your Lordship's Letter, of the 19th of February, and your inquiries concerning William Carey, the ossified young man; but as your letter came to me in the country, where I was at Read April 30, 1761. 3 [144] at a considerable distance from all opportunities of making a full and satisfactory inquiry, I judged, that it would be more acceptable to your Lordship, that I should defer giving you trouble, until I could give you a satisfactory answer. In March 1759, I had this young man brought up to Dublin, and admitted into Mercer's hospital. The physicians and surgeons put him under a salivation; and afterwards applied, to his arms and joints, mercurial plaisters. The good effects of this process, was the drying up the great discharge of humour, which he had at his elbows and wrists, and an immediate check to the progress of the ossification. In June following, he was discharged from the hospital, being furnished with mercurial plaisters, and directions. By the advice of the physicians, he went to his own place, near Ballyshanon, on the western ocean; and there, in pursuance of their directions, bathed in the ocean twice a day, during that whole summer and harvest, and constantly rubbed his whole body and limbs over with the juice of the quercus marina, immediately after coming out of the sea. In consequence of this course, he happily exchanged his ghastly hectic countenance, for an healthy and athletic complexion, which continued until March 1760. About this time his cough returned, his sores began to run, and the ossification to return. In this distress, he came to me to Dublin. With some difficulty I got him admitted again into Mercer's hospital; where he continued for some months, and was again treated with mercurial medicines and applications, [145] tions, as before. After being discharged, he returned to his former course of bathing in the ocean, and anointing his body with the quercus marina. This process restored his health, and intirely stopped the progress of the ossification. He also recovered the use of some of the ossified joints, particularly of his wrists and fingers; and his knees and legs grew so relaxed, by the dissolution of the callus, that he was able to walk twenty miles in a day. I feared, that his disorder might return this spring, as it did in 1760; but it has not returned. That I might be the better certified, I wrote to Sir James Caldwell. The answer I received was, that he had been, a few days ago, at Castlecaldwell, and found himself so well and strong, as to importune Sir James to admit him into his body of the Enniskillen lighthorse. The poor man thinks the ossification intirely stopped; yet, by the appearance of his arms and wrists, he seems to be mistaken. The first hardness still continues; and all the muscles from his elbow to the wrist, seem to be one solid bone. It is very happy for him, that it has been hitherto stopped from proceeding any farther; and that, from his present state of good health, there is reason to hope, that it will not increase. I am, With all respect, and gratitude for your many obligations, Your Lordship's most obedient and most humble servant, William Henry. Kildare-Street in Dublin, April 16, 1761. V O L. LII. U XXIX. A 