VI. A Relation of a Deaf and Dumb Person, who recover d his Speech and Hearing after a Violent Fever: With some other Medicinal and Chirurgical Observations. By Mr. Martin Martin. DAniel Fraser, a Native of Straharig, some six Miles from Inverness, continued Deaf and Dumb from his Birth, till the seventeenth Year of his Age. The Countess of Crawford kept him in her Family for the space of eight or nine Years: After seventeen Years he was taken ill of a violent Fever, but being let Blood his Fever abated, and had not its Natural Course: About five or six Months after, he contracted a Fever again, and had no Blood drawn from him, and this went on with its Natural Course. Some Weeks after his recovery he perceived a motion in his Brain, which was very uneasie to him, and afterwards he began to Hear, and in process of time to understand Speech; this naturally dispos'd him to imitate others, and attempt to Speak: The Servants were much amaz'd to hear him, and some run away; he was not understood distinctly for the space of some Weeks; he is understood now tolerably well, tho he yet retains the Highland Accent,as Highlanders do who are advanc'd to his Years before they learn the English Tongue: he can speak no Irish, for it was in the Low Lands of Scotland that he first heard and spoke. He continues to (2470) to serve the Earl of Crawford. I left him at Morpeth the beginning of this Month of August, 1707. When the Small-Pox is Epidemical in the Main Land over against Skie-Isle on the S. E. and East, and likewise in Skie-Isle, the Natives Bathe their Children in the Infusion of Juniper Wood, and they generally escape; whereas those who neglect this Precaution, are observed often to die: Of this I have seen several Instances. The Plant Water-lilly being apply'd to the pain'd part of the Body where a Felon is fix'd, it is observed, that it forces its Passage quickly in that place through the Skin. The red hot Iron is commonly used in piercing an Inch deep in Arms or Legs, and cures several Distempers. A Wound or Scarification cross the Crown of the Head cures Fluxes and Dysenteries. The Blood being stanched, the Wound is cured as other Wounds commonly are. Silverweed is used as Hops to brew Beer. VII. Observatio 