(100) III. Part of a Letter from Thomas Forster, Esq; F. R. S. to Mr. Machin, Prof. Astron. Gresham, Secr. R. S. concerning a new Island lately raised out of the Sea near Tercera. London, May 12. 1722. I Here send you a Draught of the several Bearings, and the Captain's Account of an Island lately broke out of the Sea, bearing S. E. from Tercera, Distance 17 Leagues. John Robinson, being Master of a small Pink-Snow, called the Richard and Elizabeth from Piscataqua in New-England, arrived at Tercera, Decemb. 10. 1720. near which Island he saw a Fire break out of the Sea. The Governor hired him to go with the said Vessel to view it, and sent on Board sixteen Sailors, and two Priests. On Sunday, the 18th of Decemb. we got under Sail at 12 o'Clock at Night, and stood from Angras, S. E. The next Day at two o'Clock in the Afternoon, we made an Island all Fire and Smoak: we continued our Course till the Ashes fell on our Deck like Hail or Snow all Night. We bore from it, the Fire and Smoak roared like Thunder, or great Guns. At Break of Day we stood towards it again: at 12 o'Clock we had a good Observation, two Leagues South from it. We sail'd round it, and so near, that the Fire and Matter it threw out, had like to have done us Damage: In which Consternation we all betook our selves to Prayers, being in danger of driving ashoar: then a small Gale, at S. E. sprung up, and carried us clear to our great Joy. The Breeze was ac2 companied (101) companied with a small Shower of Rain, which caus'd a great Dust to fall on our Deck; with the said Breeze we stood away for Tercera. The Governor inform'd us that the Fire broke out the 20th of Nov. 1720. in the Night, and that the prodigious Noise it made, caus'd an Earthquake, which shattered down many Houses in the Town of Angra, and Places adjacent, to the great Terror of the Inhabitants. We took several Draughts of the Island at several Bearings in our sailing round, of which the inclosed is a Copy. Prodigious Quantities of Pumice-Stones and half-broil'd Fish were found floating on the Sea, for many Leagues round the Island, and abundance of Sea-Birds hovering about it. So far the Captain. An Acquaintance of mine informed me, that in his Passage from Cadiz to London (the latter end of April was 12 Months) he observed the Sea from Cape Finister, almost to the Chops of the Channel, to be covered with Pumice-Stones, some of which he gave me. 