VIII. A Continuation of an Account of an Essay towards a Natural History of Carolina and the Bahama Islands; by Mark Catesby F. R. S. with some Extracts out of the tenth Set, by Cromwell Mortimer Secr. R. S. THE Abstract of the preceding Set, which I laid before this Society in the Year 1738. is printed in the Philosophical Transactions No. 449. This tenth Set begins with Plate 100, of the second Volume. In this Part of the Work, the Author, besides Plants, has given us several Insects, particularly some remarkable Butterslies. He begins this Set with the Mahogony-Tree, whose Wood is of late Years become so well known here in England, for all sorts of Joyner's Work, I i i i sur[600] surpassing the red Cedar in Beauty, without having the disagreeable Scent of that Wood. 81. Arbor foliis pinnatis, nullo impari alam claudente, nervo ad latus unum excurrente, fructu anguloso magno, semine alato instar Pinus. The Mahogony-Tree. These Trees grow to a great Height, and are usually four Foot Diameter; the Seed-vessels are of a curious Form, consisting of a large Cone splitting into five Parts, and disclosing its winged Seeds, disposed in the regular manner of those of an Apocynum: And at the Bahama Islands, and other Countries where it grows naturally, it is in no less Esteem for Ship-Building, having Properties for that Use excelling Oak, and all other Wood; viz. Durableness, resisting Gun-shots, and burying the Shot without splintering. No one would imagine that Trees of this Magnitude should grow on solid Rocks, and that those Rocks should afford sufficient Nutriment to raise and increase the Trunks of them to the Thickness of four Feet or more in Diameter; but so it is; and the Manner of their Rise and Progress the Author hath observed as follows: The Seeds being winged are dispersed on the Surface of the Ground, where some falling into the Chinks of the Rocks, strike Root; then creep out on the Surface of it, and seek another Chink, into which they creep and swell to such a Size and Strength, that at length the Rock splits, and is forced to admit of the Root's deeper Penetration; and with this little Nutriment the Tree increases to a stupendious Size in a few Years, it being a quick Grower. Viscum [601] Viscum soliis longioribus, baccis rubris. This red-berried Misleto grows on the Bark of the Mahogony and some other Trees, as our Misleto does on Apple-Trees. 82. Bignonia Americana, capreolis donata; siliqua breviore. Tournesort. Inst. This elegant Plant endures our Climate. [In the following PLATES the Author has interspersed several remarkable Butterflies, and other Insects.] 83. Frutex Virginianus trifolius, Ulmi samaris, Banisteri. Pluk. Alma. 159. This agrees with our Climate. Papilio caudatus maximus, Carolinianus, umbris striisque nigris. Pet. Mus. No. 505. 84. Philadelphus flore albo majore inodoro. This agrees with the Climate of England. Smilax non spinosa baccis rubris. Phalaena plumata caudata, Caroliniana virescens oculata. Pet. Mus. p. 69. No. 733. 85. Anona fructu lutescente, levi, scrotum Arietis referente. There are many Species of this Genus growing between the Tropics; but this only is to be found on the Northern Continent of America. 86. Anona maxima, foliis oblongis angustis; fructu maximo luteo conoide; cortice glabro in areolas angulares distincto. Phalaena magna, ex rufo et albo varia Americana. 87. Anona foliis Laurinis, in summitate incisis; fructu compresso scabro fusco, in medio acumine longo. The Sappadillo Tree. I i i i 2 Convolvulus [602] Convolvulus foliis variis interioribus trifariam, divisis, superioribus sagittatis; floribus ex rubro purpureis. 88. Viscum radice bulbosa; sloris labello carneo, ceteris petalis sordide luteis. This bulbose-rooted Plant grows only to the Trunks, and on the Limbs of Trees. Its Fibres insinuating into the Crevices of the Bark where they take such firm Rooting that great Strength is required to tear them from the Trees. They grow in the Bahama Islands. Viscum Cariophylloides, Lilii albi foliis; floris labello brevi purpureo, caeteris petalis ex luteo virescentibus. These Plants, after the manner of the precedent, grow upon Trees on bulbose Roots, in the Bahama Islands. Papillio rufa marginibus nigris punctis albis notatis. 89. Viscum Cariophylloides angustifolium; floribus longis tubulosis caeruleis, ex spicis squamosis caeruleis erumpentibus. This Plant, tho' bulbose-rooted, grows to the Limbs and Branches of Trees. The Leaves are concave; the whole Plant resembling somewhat the Ananas: What recommends this useful and very singular Plant is, that its hollow Leaves, lapping over one another, are so closely placed, that one Plant will contain two Quarts of clear Water. In many Countries between the Tropics, that are destitute of Water, having neither Springs nor Rivers, these Plants abound, and are of great Benefit in relieving the [603] the thirsly Traveller, as (says our Author) I have often experienced in Draughts of this refreshing Water; which, tho~ receiving the Heat of the Sun's perpendicular Rays, was always as cool as from a Spring. These Plants are common on many of the Bahama Islands, and usually grow on large Trees; particularly Mahogony, Sappadillo, Mancanilla, &c. which are sometimes so cover'd with them, that they seem to be the Leaves and Blossoms of the Trees on which they grow, and make a very elegant Appearance. Locusta Caroliniana, elytris fuscis; alis interioribus nigris ad extremitates luteis. 90. Ketmia, amplissimo Tiliae folio subtus argenteo, slore magno luteo. The Maho Tree. Of the inner Bark of this Tree the Musketo Indians make their Lines both for Fishing and Striking, it being very tough and durable: It is also of great Service to the American Privateers, who make their Cordage and Rigging of it. (See more in Sir Hans Sloane's Hist. Jam. Vol. I. p. 215.) Phalaena fusca, alis superioribus Lunulis nigris notatis, inferioribus lunatis et oculatis iridibus sul-~ phureis. 91. Caryophyllus spurius inodorus, folio subrotundo scabro, flore racemoso hexapetaloide coccineo speciosissimo. Hist. Jam. Vol. II. p. 20. T. 164. Convolvulus minor pentaphyllos, flore purpureo minore. Phalaena ingens Caroliniana oculata e luteo fusca, lineis dilute purpureis insignita. The Great Moth. 92. Plumeria flore roseo odoratissimo. Tourn. Inst. This is a most elegant Plant of the Nerium Kind, [604] Kind, in great Esteem in Gardens for its Smell and Beauty. 92. `Plumeria slore ~, soliis brevioribus obtusis. Plum. Cat. Granadilla, soliis Sarsaparillae trinerviis; slore purpureo: fructu Olivaeformi caeruleo. The Purple Passion-slower. 94. Cerasus latiore folio; fructu racemoso purpu~ reo majore. The Pidgeon-Plum. The Fruit is ripe in December, is pleasant-tasted, and is the Food of Pidgeons, and many wild Animals. Eruca maxima cornuta. Hist. Jam. Vol. II. p. 220. The great horned Catterpillar. 95. Mancanilla Pyri facie. Plumier. Plant. Americ. Juglandi affinis arbor Julifera, &c. Hist. Jam. Vol. II. p. 3. The Manchaneel Tree. This Wood is much esteem'd for Tables, Cabinets, and other curious Works in Joinery; but the virulent and dangerous Properties of the Sap cause a general Fear, or at least Caution, in felling them. This, says the Author, I was not sufficiently satisfy'd of, till assisting in the cutting down a Tree of this kind on Andros Island, I paid for my Incredulity: Some of the milky poisonous Juice spirting in my Eyes, I was two Days totally deprived of Sight, and my Eyes and Face much swell'd, and felt a violent pricking Pain the first twenty-four Hours; which from that Time abated gradually with the Swelling, and went off without any Application, or Remedy, none in that uninhabited Island being to be had. It is no Wonder that the Sap of this Tree should be so virulent, when Rain or Dew falling from its Leaves on the naked Flesh causes Blisters on the Skin, [605] Skin, and even the Essluvia of it are so noxious as to affect the Senses of those which stand any time under its Shade. Other malignant Effects are commonly attributed to it, but I think with little Probability. One Charge of its pernicious Quality is, that Animals, which feed on the Fruit, are so infected by it, that Death is often the Fate of those that seed on such Animals. This is refuted in the Instance of Guana's, p. 64. Vol. II. The Report also of the Baracauda's, and other Fish, receiving their poisonous Quality by seeding on Mancaneel Apples, is likewise erroneous. Viscum foliis latioribus, baccis purpureis pediculis insidentibus. Papilio medius Gadetanus, ex nigro et sulphureo varius, maculis coccineis notatus. 96. Prunus maritima racemosa, folio rotundo glabro; fructu minore purpureo. Hist. Jam. Vol. II. p. 129. The Mangrove Grape Tree. This is a very specious Tree, producing ample stiff Leaves, on both Sides of which the Spaniards used to write with a Bodkin, when they were in want of Pen, Ink, and Paper. It produces a purple-colour'd pleasant Fruit resembling a Plum, the Stone of which is very astringent, and is used in Fluxes, with great Success. The Wood of this Tree makes a strong Fire, therefore used by the Privateers of America to harden the Steels of their Guns when faulty. Phalaena Caroliniana minor, fulva; maculis nigris alba linea, pulchre aspersis. Pet. Gaz. Nat. Tab. III. Fig. 2. 97. Acacia foliis amplioribus; siliquis cincinnatis. Plum. Cat. Papilio 7 [606] `Papilio diurna prima, omnium maxima. Mouffet p. 98. Raii Hist. Insect. p. 111. Mamankanois in M S. ~. Gualteri Raleigh penes D. Hans Sloane. 98. Chamaedaphna soliis Tini, floribus bullatis umbellatis. As all Plants have their peculiar Beauties, it is difficult to assign to any one an Elegance excelling all others; yet, considering the curious Structure of the Flower, and beautiful Appearance of this whole Plant, I know of no Shrub (says our Author) that has a better Claim to it; but the noxious Qualities of it lessen that Esteem which its Beauty claims: For, tho' the Deer feed on its green Leaves with Impunity, yet when Cattle and Sheep, by severe Winters deprived of better Food, feed on the Leaves of these Plants, a great Number of them die annually on the Continent of America. After several unsuccessful Attempts (says the Author) to propagate it srom Seeds, I procured Plants of it at several times from America, but with little better Success; for they gradually diminished, and produced no Blossoms; till his curious Friend Mr. Collinson, excited by a View of its dried Specimens, and Description of it, procured some Plants of it from Pensilvania; which Climate being nearer to that of England than that from whence mine came, some Blossoms were produced in July 1740, and in 1741, in my Garden at Fulham. 99. Cenchramidea arbor saxis adnascens, obrotundo, pingui folio; fructu pomiformi, in plurimas capsulas, granula ficulnea stilo columnari octogono praeduro adhaerentia continentes, diviso; Balsamum fundens. Plum. Almag. The Balsam Tree. This Plant [607] Plant in June produces ample fair Flowers, composed of six white Petals stained with purple, surrounding the Rudiment of the Fruit, which is almost spherical, and increases to the Size of a midling Apple. From the Stalk to the Crown of the Fruit run eight Lines, like the Meridians on a Globe, from Pole to Pole. When the Fruit becomes ripe it opens at these Lines, and divides into eight Parts, disclosing its mucilaginous scarlet Seeds, which are contained in the hollow Furrows of an octagonal Core. The whole Plant is exceeding beautiful, and particularly the Structure of the Fruit in all its Parts is a most excellent Piece of natural Mechanism. These Trees grow on Rocks, and frequently on the Limbs and Trunks of Trees, occasioned by Birds scattering or voiding the Seeds; which being glutinous like those of Misleto, take Root and grow; but not finding sufficient Nourishment to increase in Growth, the Roots spread on the Bark or Superficies of the Tree, till they find a decay'd Hole, or other Lodgment wherein is some Portion of Soil, into which they enter, and become a Tree: But the Fertility of this second Plantation being exhausted, one or more of the Roots are discharged out of the Hole, and fall directly to the Ground, tho' at forty Feet Distance, Here again they take Root, and become a much larger Tree than before. The Resin of this Tree is used for the Cure of Sores in Horses, and also instead of Tallow, for Boats and other Vessels. They grow on the Bahama Islands, and on many other of the hot Parts of America. K k k k 100. [608] 100. Frutex spinosus buxi foliis, plurimis simul nascentibus; flore tetrapetaloide, pendulo, sordide flavo, tubo longissimo; fructu ovali croceo, semina parva continente. The Leaves of this little Tree were like those of Box; the Flowers were tubulous, of a yellow Colour about six Inches long, hanging pendulous: They were monopetalous, being very small at the Calix, and wide at the Mouth, in Form of a Roman Trumpet, except that their Verge was divided into four deep Segments, reflected back. Shewing a Specimen of this Plant to Consul Sherard, who was so justly celebrated for his Knowledge in Plants, he expressed his Admiration, and declared, that had he not seen the Thing itself, he could not have believed there had been such a singular Plant in Nature. [Dr. Gronovius, a very learned Gentleman at Leyden, and curious in botanical Studies, has paid our Author the Compliment of giving this Plant the Name of Catesbaea. *] Papilio caudatus Carolinianus; fuscus, striis pallescentibus; linea et maculis sanguineis subtus ornatus. Pet. Mus. p. 50. N. 508. * As Langrenus and Riccioli distinguished the Regions in the Moon by the Names of Men famous in Philosophy and Mathematicks, so have the Botanists paid their Compliments to Men eminent for their Knowledge of Plants, or for being Encouragers of Botany, by giving their Names to new-discover'd Plants. VIII. 