Observations Concerning the Uniting of Barks of Trees cut, to the Tree it self; made by Christopher Merret M. D. and read before the Royal Society January 9. 1666. IN the midst of March An. 1664. I made a Section of the Rinds of Ash, and of the Tree, falsly called Sycamore. The first Section of each of the Rinds was square, whereof three sides were cut, (454) cut, the fourth uncut. The success was, that the whole Bark did unite, by binding it with pack-thred, leaving a scar in each of the sides cut. Then I cut off and separated entirely from the Tree, several parts of the Bark, some shallower, leaving part of the Bark on; others to the very wood it self, both in the Trunk and Branches; from an inch square to less dimensions; and some of them I bound close with pack-thred: all which were separated, a new Rind succeeding in their place. Some I cover'd over, beyond the place of Incision, with Diachylon-plaister, and tied them fast with packthred. All which, thus bound and plaister'd, did within the space of three weeks, firmly unite to the Tree, not without some shriveling of the outward skin of the Bark, and also with some shrinking in each side, where the Incision was made; where also appear'd in each of the Interstices a scar. The like Experiment I made, some years before, about the same time of the year, and succeeded as before related. But tying the same about Michaelmas, and in the Winter-season, at neither of these times any Union could be made of the Bark to the Tree. I suppose, it was, because the Sappe mounted not so vigorously and in such plenty, as in the Spring-season. Some Branches of the fore-mentioned Trees were decorticated round, and where no Union was, there certainly follow'd a withering of the Branch beyond the place, where the Section was made. I also separated a Twig from the Branch, by cutting of it sloping, for the better fastning of it to the Branch again. This Twig I exactly fitted to the Branch, from whence 'twas cut, in the same posture, it before grew in: I firmly bound it, and cover'd it with Diachylon-plaister. The success was, that in 3 dayes time, the Twig, that was cut off, withered. An 