[5] II. Yhe Case of a Lad bitten by a mad Dog, communicated in a Letter from Mr. Edward Nourse, F. R. S. and Chirurgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, to Cromwell Mortimer, M. D. Secr. R. S. Dear S I R, PResuming that the following Case will be acceptable to the Society, I beg Leave to communicate it through your Hands. I am Your most obedient Servant, 18 Jan. 1736-7. Edward Nourse. STephen Bellass, aged about Sixteen, some time in June 1735, was bit by a mad Dog through the Nail of his Right Thumb: I was called immediately upon the Accident, when I proposed to make a Ligature above, and to cauterize the wounded Part; but that not being complied with, I desired Mr. Gernum the Apothecary, who was present, to make up the Remedy mentioned by Dampier in our Transactions, No 237 [and 443.] (viz.) ~ Lichen ciner. terrestris, Piper. nig. ~ ~i. f. Pulvis. Of this Powder he took a Dram, within an Hour after he was bit; repeated it the next Morning before he set out for Gravesend, where he was ten Days, and dipt in the salt Water every Day; during which Time he repeated the Medicine Night and Morning, and continued so to do for forty Days. This Boy was without [6] out the least Sign of being affected by the Poison, till Tuesday last the 11th of January 1736 7. when in the Evening he complained of a Numbness in three of the Fingers of the Hand that was not bit: On Wednesday Morning he was sick, had great Pain across his Stomach, and in all his Bones; in the Evening I was sent for to bleed him, the People about him supposing he had got Cold. When I came, I found him feverish, with a hard full Pulse: I asked what Complaints he had? He told me those abovementioned. I inquired what Nourishment he had taken that Day? the Answer was, None, for he could not swallow; whereupon I looked into his Mouth, but there was no Inflammation; neither did any thing occur to me that could possibly produce the Difficulty of swallowing, he said, he had: I offered him some Sack-whey in a Bason, but he started at the Sight of it, neither would he suffer it to come near him; I then offered him a Spoonful, which I prevailed upon him to swallow: The Moment it was down, he was convulsed, and a remarkable Horror appeared in his Countenance, which was succeeded by a profuse Sweat all over his Face and Head. He afterwards took another Spoonful; the Consequence was as before, but in somewhat a higher Degree: I was now convinced that this was the ~, and that it arose from his having been bit nineteen Months ago; for after the most strict Inquiry, it does not appear that he has been bit by any Animal since; and if he had, it is very probable I should have known it, his Master living next Door to me, and the Boy knowing how much Danger we thought him in, when he was bit: I acquainted his Friends with my Apprehensions, and desired [7] desired farther Advice; upon which Dr. Monro was sent for, who ordered him to be let Blood, a Repetition of the above-mentioned Medicine in a Bolus every four Hours, and a Clyster: He was blooded, and the Clyster was injected; but he was prevailed upon to take but one of the Bolusses. This Night was spent with great Inquietude, and without any Sleep: Thursday Morning he was generally convulsed, and had frequent Reachings and Yawnings alternately; about Noon his Mind (which till then continued sound) left him, and he raved and foamed at the Mouth till five o'Clock in the Afternoon; at which Time Nature seemed quite spent, and he lay very quiet till Seven, when he died. The Poison in this Boy, you find, was latent near nineteen Months; which I know the Books mention, but it never fell within my Observation before. I do not know whether it be necessary to tell you, that I cut this Boy for the Stone last Summer, about a Year after he had been bit; I never saw a Wound more disposed to heal, and he was well and abroad in five Weeks. III. 