(67) V. An Account os a New Island raised near SantErini in the Archipelago; being part of a Letter to Mr. James Petiver, F. R. S. from Dr. W. Sherard, Consul at Smirna, &c. Smirna, July 24. 1707. I Just now receiv'd a Letter from our Consul at Milo, with the following Account of a New Island, &c. Take it in his own Words. `` There happening in this part of the Archipelago, at `` the Island of Sant-Erini, a great Curiosity, I have `` thought it worth your Notice. On the 12th of the `` last Month there began to rise up an Island a Musket`` shot distant from the Island of Sant-Erini, which con`` tinually increasing from Day to Day in the same man`` ner, and troubling the Sea, there arose up several `` Rocks, that fixed themselves to this Island; so that `` at this time it is about half a Mile in Circumfe`` rence. Milo, June 21. 1707, N. S. Several others have much the same Account. I have writ to Sant-Erini for a piece of the Rock, and a more distinct Relation, which you may expect by my next, if worthy of Communication. W. S. K 2 From (68) From the Paris Gazette, dated April 14, 1708. Constantinople, Jan. 4. 1708. They write from the Island of Sant-Erini in the Archipelago, about 28 Leagues North of the Town of Candia, of the first of December last, that there was sprung up an Island from the Bottom of the Sea, which at that place is very deep, formed of Stones cast up by a Volcano under ground at the Bottom of the Sea, which has often produced the same Effects, and after the same Manner. In the Year 726, in the time of the Emperor Leo Isauricus, there was formed an Island on the North side, called the Burnt Island, by Matter vomited up and heaped together by this Volcano. In the year 1427, in the Month of December, this Burnt Island was increased by great Rocks cast up by Subterraneous Fires. In the year 1650, in the Month of September, the Volcano again took Fire, and produced the same Effects, without forming any Island, but only a Shelf or Bank 10 Fathom under Water in the Sea, where it has no Bottom. Lastly, In the Month of November last, 1707, the Volcano made an Island, which is already two Miles in Circumference, and increases yet (this first of December) by Rocks and other new Matter that is thrown up. This Burning was preceeded, as at all other times, by violent Shakings of the Earth, followed by a thick Smoak that rose out of the Sea in the day time, and Flames in the Night, and accompanied with a terrible roaring under Ground. There is no Example of the Effects of any Volcano at Land like these in the Sea; and yet what renders them the more credible, is, that the Island of Sant-Erini it self, is almost all of it composed of Burnt Rocks and Pumice-stones: It produces some sorts of Grain, but has neither Rivers nor Springs, nor any other Water but what is saved in Cisterns. VI. Expe