Philos.Trans. No. 483. TAB. IX. Part of the general Vale of yo. p. 546. ~ Roa Road to Pocklington ~ Road to a Pocklington a ~ b b Roman Temple Millington ~ Wood Road Road to a Tumulus Roman DELGOVITIA ~ ~ b c b b ~ a a a b a b a a b c a b b a Burying b ~ bRoman Road to Brough & to ~ b b b b a a b b ~ Works c Bridlington ~ b a Well ~ thro' the the nibole Rock 26 ~. deep a A Scale of one Mile. b b 1/4 1/2 3/4 1 a b Road to Hugget ~ york. Roman Road to ~. ~. ~ of the ~ ~ ~ Yorkshire ~ by Hill where the ~ ~ of DELGOVITIA Road to Pocklington b is supposed to ~ ~. a b b c aaaa.Vallies markt in the b a Original ~ Green. ~ bbbb. Barriers markt ~. cccc.Watch guards markt red. b Roman Road to MaltonRoad b b ~ b b b b a a a a b c c b b a These Works continued a a towards Bridlington b ~ Vales continued towards Bridlington b c a a Roman Road to Bridlington Bay Works continued towards ~ ~ ~ in breadth ~ 73 Yards broad b a AVG ~ ~ CAES VESPASIAN ar. T R P IX IMPXV C O S VIII ~ P p. 548. DN GRATIANVS AVG G ~ ar. ~ NO ~ T C O N J. ~ ~ A Dissertation on the Situation of the ancient Roman Station of Delgovitia in Yorkshire; by John Burton, of York, M. D. T H E learned Antiquarians have hitherto been greatly at a Loss to find the Place where the Delgovitia of the Romans really stood; some supposing it at one Place, and some at another. Read May 28. 1747. My worthy and learned Friend Mr. Francis Drake, in his excellent History and Antiquities of York, has given us every thing which has hitherto been wrote in Support of the Claim made by each Place to the Honour of rising out of the Ruins of that ancient Town; together with his Reasons for fixing that Station at Londesburgh; all which I beg Leave to recapitulate in as few Words as possible, and to make some few Remarks thereupon, before I proceed to shew where I think Delgovitia really was. There are three Places where the Site of Delgovitia has been fix'd at; viz. Weighton, Godmanham, and Londesburgh. See the Map in T A B. X. The Reasons offer'd for fixing it at Weighton are three; First, From the supposed Derivation of the Name. Secondly, From something like a Tumulus. being at the East End of the Town. And A a a a 2 Thirdly, [542] Thirdly, Because the Distance from Derventio agrees with the Itinerary. As to the first, the learned Cambden would have Delgovitia to be derived from the British Word Delgwe, which signifies the Statues or Images of the Heathen Gods; therefore, as some Persons would have Weighton to be derived from something of the like Cause, upon no other Foundation, than that Weightelberg in Germany is noted by Conrad Celtes, says Dr. Gale, as a remarkable Town in those Parts. Another Person (a) says, that Delgovitia was called Devovicia, or Delvovicia; from whence take Vic, and add the Saxon Termination Ton, there is something like Wighton; especially when we consider that the Saxon U and W were sounded alike. Both these (supposed) Proofs for Weighton will drop, when we consider, that an easier and much more probable Derivation of it may be found out; the Name being intirely Saxon, and is plainly derived from the Saxon Word ~, or ~, Via, Stratum, a Road or Street; and from the Verb ~, ire, transire, to travel: The Termination Ton is obvious to all; so the Belgic or High Dutch Wech, Wegh, Weghe, are the same with our Way, and signify the same Thing. This is most likely, because Weighton now stands at the Conjuncture of several Roads, which here meet, and run from thence by Kexby-Bridge to York, and thence may be called Weighton, or Way-Town. The Roman military Ways, both from Praetorium and from Lindum, took a (a) In the Chorography of Britain. [543] a different Course, and went by Londesburgh, as I shall shew in the sequel; and the old Road being turn'd this Way, a new Town sprung up, which took its Name from the Occasion of altering the Road. The second Reason offer'd to prove Weighton to have been Delgovitia is, because Mr. Horseley observed something like a Tumulus at the West End of the Town. This alone is so weak an Argument to prove this Place a Roman Station, that I shall take up no Time in endeavouring to confute it. I must also remark, that there are not the least Remains of any Roman Road leading to Weighton; which there always are to any known Roman Station. The third Reason offer'd, is, because this Place agrees so near with the Distance from Derventio, as mention'd in the Itinerary; but this Argument must fall, when I shall shew in the Sequel, that it is not true in Fact, having had the Road measured. There is no other Reason offer'd, why Delgovitia was where Godmanham now is, than that this latter Place was said, by Venerable Bede, to be Locus Idolorum, or a Place of Idols. Mr. Burton, in his Itin. Anton. seems to lay a Stress on the quendam Idolorum Locus, and says, It may allude, as well to Roman Idols as Saxon: But this is too far strain'd; and we may justly enough conclude, that this was a Temple neither of Roman Structure nor Worship, but a Place dedicated to Saxon Idolatry; such a one as is described in Verstegan, inclosed with a Hedge instead of a Wall: For we find the curious Mr. Drake made a very strict Enquiry, and could not perceive the least Remains of any Ruins; meeting with nothing [544] thing but Holes and Hills, where Chalk or LimePits had been made. There being not sufficient Proof offer'd to fix Delgovitia here, I shall now proceed to examine what Mr. Drake brings, to prove that Londesburgh may claim this Honour, he being the first Person who has attempted to shew it; and I must own, has brought much more substantial Reasons to support his Opinion, than have been mention'd in Behalf of either Weighton or Godmanham. These are five in Number; viz. First, From the Name of the Place, i. e. Burgh or Brough. Secondly, The Distance from Eboracum and Derventio will answer the calculated Miles in the Itinerary, as well as Weighton. Thirdly, Because the Roman Road lay that Way. Fourthly, Because Roman Coins are found there. And Fifthly, Because there are Repositories for the Dead often found. As to the first; That it might derive Part of its Name, viz. Burgh, from a Fortress on Land, I agree to; and very likely there might have been some Guards kept there; because it stands so high, that it commands the Prospect of the whole Country from thence to Brough, where the Romans used to ferry over to and from Lincoln; as appears by the military Road on both Sides the River. Here might, I say, have been a Guard kept, to see that no Enemy came on that Side to surprise them in their Station; and which indeed seems to be the more confirmed by the Coins found here, as well as the Number 7 of [545] of human Bones. Tho' this last is no certain Proof; because a Battle or Skirmish might have been fought near or upon this Place; which indeed seems to have been the Case, so many Bodies being found together; yet, when join'd with other Circumstances, it helps strongly to confirm his Opinion. But I have not heard of any old Foundations, Ruins, or Roman Pavements having been discover'd in or near this Place. The second Reason offer'd is, because it will answer the calculated Miles in the Itinerary. This Place comes nearer the Itinerary than Weighton; but this Point I shall wave discussing, till I come to treat of that Place where I think Delgovitia stood. The third Reason is, because the military Way led thither from Brough. This, tho' a Proof that the Romans passed and repassed where that Place now stands, yet is no Proof of its being a Roman Station. The fourth Reasons I have already spoke to under the first Head here offer'd; so I shall now proceed to prove, I hope, where Delgovitia really stood. I shall not spend much Time in speaking of the Wisdom of the Romans, either in their military or political Capacity: Some few Things however, tending that Way, I am obliged to mention, in order to shew their Motives for fixing a Station in the Place I hint at, and then I shall endeavour to bring my Proofs that that Station was their Delgovitia. Among others, these were strong Reasons for keeping the several Stations; viz. to guard the Passes, to keep the Country in Awe, and to have a considerable Number of Men together, to prevent a Surprize from any foreign Invasion, and sometimes to secure a Supply of Provision. I don't [546] I don't know any Part of the County of York that required so strong a Guard as this Place (strong it has been, is evident from the Plan of the Camp); because it is so situated, that York, for want of this Station, might have been sooner surprised, either by any foreign Enemies, who might have made a Descent upon them, from either the Humber, or German Ocean; or from an Insurrection of the Inhabitants of the East-Riding; both which are by this Station sufficiently guarded against. It likewise gave them an Opportunity of receiving and defending their Recruits, either from Rome, or from any other of the Southern Parts of the Island; who could either come by Water, or cross the River from out of Lincolnshire. As the guarding their Passes was one strong Reason for fixing Stations, any Person, by looking on and examining the annexed Map, (see T A B. X.) and the Draught of the Camp, (see T A B. IX.) will easily at one View, see why that Place must be preferable for such a Station; for it is just at the Angle where four Roman military Ways meet; so that, by guarding sufficiently that one Pass, they secur'd all the four Roads; which, had they been station'd either at Weighton, Godmanham, or Londesburgh, they could not with the same Men have done. This will be more evident, by drawing a Line of the Roman Road on the Map of Yorkshire from Brough Ferry on the River Humber thro' Londesburgh Park to Malton, and from Stamford-Bridge to Pattrington near Spurnhead; and then you will find that the Roads cross each other betwixt or near Millinton and Wartre Priory. Moreover the Country itself, by Nature, helped, with only little Art, to make their Camp at that time [547] time almost impregnable, the Hills being from 60 to 90 Yards perpendicular in Height, and their Sides very steep, which are very apparent in the Plan. From one Part of this Camp they could see a great way towards Malton, and all the Way down the great Vale of York, from near Hambleton Hills to Howden, and from Londesburgh (where I doubt not but they kept a Watch-Guard) they could see all the Way from Howden to Brough-Ferry. Hence they could not be surprised from the SouthEast, South-West, or North-West Quarters; therefore they had only chiefly the Eastern Sides to fortify? and how they have done that, the Plan of their Camp (T A B. IX.) will better shew than I can describe. Another Reason for their fixing here is very evident; because, at the Foot of the Hill, not 100 Yards from where the Roman Pavement was, there are two Springs of fine clear Water, which, united, form what they call the Beck. These Springs never fail, even in the hottest and driest Summers (a rare thing to be met with upon the Wolds) and there is not another Spring within two Miles of that Place, but what is either quite dried up, or greatly diminished in a dry Season; insomuch that at this Day, in some Seasons, the People are obliged to drive their Cattle several Miles hither for Water. From this Situation their Army could never want Provisions, having a free Communication either by Land or Water, with the Southern Parts of the Island. All that Part of the Plan of the Camp (T A B. IX.) marked a. a. a. a. describes deep Valleys; from the Bottom of which to the Top of the Hills are in general B b b b from [548] from 60 to 90 Yards in perpendicular Height, and the Sides are very steep. All along the Hills, from Vale to Vale are Roman Works, represented in the Plan at b. b. b. b.; so that nothing could pass that Way, without the Knowledge and Consent of the Guards. It must also be observed, that, of all the Works, those guarding the Parts toward Bridlington are the strongest; they being from 4 to 6 Ditches in Breadth, each of which are 10 or 12 Yards broad. At the Places marked c. c. c. c. in the Valleys, were Watch-Guards, kept to prevent any Surprize, by the Enemy attempting to get at the Station that Way. All these Works inclose 4185 Acres of Ground; whence it is evident here must have been a large Army. You see in several Places where their Tumuli or Barrows were, represented by little green Hills. Having shewn the Fortifications and Out-works of the Camp, I will now prove the Part within these on which Delgovitia stood. About half a Mile North-East of Millington, on the South Side of a gently sloping Hill, were found several Stone Foundations of Buildings of different Sizes, and of different Shapes; among which were found several Fragments of Roman Pavements, Roman Tiles, Flues, and two Roman Coins, all or the chief of which are represented in their respective Colours in T A B. IX. and X. These are all Proofs of the Buildings having Roman. There was likewise dug up a Piece of a large Stone Pillar, of about six Feet in Length, but of no regular Order; which, notwithstanding, might yet be Roman; for we can't suppose those military People [549] People so well skill'd in Architecture as the Artists at Rome. If Delgovitia (as Cambden hints) be derived from the British Word Delgwe, which signifies Statues or Heathen Gods, this Place may lay claim to a Title on that Account, much sooner than either Weighton or Godmanham; for here was dug up a circular Foundation resembling a Temple in all Appearance; being within of 45 Feet Diameter, and the Foundation was near five Feet thick. Near to this circular Building, but South of it, were the Foundations of two oblong square Building, but with a strait Entrance, not two Feet wide, wherein I apprehend they put in the Fuel and Fire for their Sacrifices; there being evident Marks of burning upon the Stones, they being almost burnt thro': Moreover, in digging in the middle of these two Buildings, we found about half a Yard thick of Ashes, wherein were some few small Pieces of Wood, Fuel, and Pieces of Brute-Bones, chiefly burnt, and a great Part of an Horn of a large Deer, which I now have by me. East of these were laid open the Foundations of another square Building, wherein we found the Pavements, Coins, &c. as are here represented in TAB. X. The Situation of these Buildings was very strong, being guarded on the South-East and North-East by a deep Vale, the Sides of which are very steep. From what has been said, I think there is nothing wanting now to prove this to have been the Delgovitia, but to reconcile the Distance as mention'd in the Itinerary. B b b b 2 From [550] From Eboracum to Derventio M. P. VII. From Derventio to Delgovitia M. P. XIII. Total M. P. XX. I had the Road measured from York to the circular Building or Temple, and the Particulars were as follows; viz. Miles. Yards. From York to Stamford-Bridge, or Derventio, were 7 154 From Stamford-Bridge to the first Beginning of the Roman Works, 7 209 From the first Barrier to the circular Foundation, 3 132 From the Temple to the East Side of the Works is 21/4 0 Total 171/4 55 This, tho' not exactly the same Distance mention'd in the Itinerary, is yet nearer it than either Londesburgh, Weighton, or Godmanham; for Londesburgh is five computed Miles farther than this Place; and if we add 1 Mile and a half more (they in general measuring one Third more than computed at), then it will be about 6 Miles and a half; which, added to 17 Miles and a Quarter, will make Londesburgh to be 23 Miles and three Quarters from York; which differs more from the Itinerary than the Place where I suppose the Delgovitia to have been. Both Godmanham and Weighton are still farther off, the last being 3 computed Miles from Londesburgh; [551] desburgh; and if it measures one Third more, then it will amount to 4 Miles and a half; which, added to 23 Miles and three Quarters, will make the Distance betwixt Eboracum and Weighton, by Derventio and Londesburgh, to be 28 Miles one Quarter. I think this little Variation from the Itinerary not to be an Argument strong enough to prove this Place not to have been the Delgovitia, when put in Competition with the Situation, &c. which at one View both of the Map and Plan will appear; considering at the same time, that the Proportion betwixt the Roman Mille Passuum and our Miles is nearly as 19 to 21. From what I have said, I think it is evident, that neither Weighton, Godmanham, nor Londesburgh, stand where Delgovitia was. I have in the first Place shewn the Probability of this Place near Millington being the Station, from the known Prudence of the Romans, because one Set of Men could defend the whole four Passes; which could not have been done, had they been placed at Weighton, Godmanham, or Londesburgh. Secondly, I have shewn, that, from the very Situation and Nature of the Country, there required but little Art to make their Camp, at that time, almost impregnable; the Valleys in general being from 60 to 90 Yards deep, and the Sides thereof very steep. Thirdly, That from this Camp and Londesburgh they might see the whole Country from the Humber on the South-East, up the Vale of York on the West towards the North-West Side; so that no Army could surprise them that Way. 8 Fourthly, [552] Fourthly, That they could always have a sufficient Quantity of Provisions, and never want Water, even in the hottest Summers. And, Fifthly, That there has been a Roman Station here, as is evident from the Roman Pavement, Coins, Tiles, and Foundations of the Ruins: And if the Romans had had a Station at Weighton, Godmanham, or Londesburgh, they would scarce have had one so near the other. All these Things concur in proving this to be the Site of Delgovitia; and there is or can be no Argument brought against it; except that, by the Itinerary, the Distance from Eboracum by Derventio, is set down at XX M. P. and by our Measure the Distance from York to the circular Foundation, in the Camp, is only 17 Miles, one Quarter, and 55 Yards; so that there is above two measur'd Miles and one half Difference. In Answer to this, I say, May not the Itinerary be as wrong here as in some other Places; which is very evident in several Instances? And as it is wrong in some others, I doubt not but it may be so in this: Besides, the Romans might calculate from the Center of York; and this Mensuration only goes from the Bar at Walmgate to the circular Foundation in the Roman Camp. But supposing the Itinerary to be exactly right, yet, when the Difference betwixt the Roman Mil. Pass. and our Miles is calculated, I believe it will end all Disputes on that Score. An [553] An Appendix to the foregoing Paper, by Mr. Fr. Drake F. R. S. TIME, which subverts and destroys the greatest Works of Mankind, hath an equal Property of bringing Things to Light. The DELGOVITIA of the Romans in this Country, so long sought after by Cambden, and other Writers, as well as myself, is at length discover'd so far, that there is no need of any more Conjecture about it. Being informed, in the Year 1745, of some Roman Curiosities found in a Field near Millington, on the Wolds, Dr. Burton of York and myself set out to survey them. On our coming to the Place, an intelligent Countryman and his Father conducted us to a large plain Field, on the South Side of Millington Wood, where we were shewed several Foundations of Buildings under Ground, on the very Stones of which the apparent Marks of Fire may be traced. Two Bases of Pillars, of an irregular Order, and a large Piece of a Column, were also discover'd; several Pieces of tesselated Pavements, Roman Bricks, Tiles, &c. were dug up. The Father told us, that, about 40 Years before, he saw the Foundations of a circular Building, about fifteen Yards Diameter, dug up in this Place; which must have been the Vestiges of some Circus or Temple: That it had been the Custom for the Inhabitants of their Village, Time out of Mind, to dig for Stones in this Ground when they wanted; and that they must often do, in a Country almost clear of such Materials. The Church of Millington itself seems to have been built out of the Ruins of this antient Roman Station. That this was really the DELGOVITIA so long sought after, I think, is beyond Contradiction. The Distance from York coincides very justly with the Itinerary; nineteen or twenty Italian Miles agrees pretty well with our present Computation; and at the same time points out the true military Way from the Humber to York. Instead of forcing a Road through the Vale, the Romans very wisely chose to mount [554] mount the Hills as soon as possible; and therefore directed their Stratum from York to the Ford, over the River Derwent at Stainfordburg; and from thence in a direct Line to Garrowby Hill; which I take to be corrupted from Barrowby, many of those Tumuli or Barrows being near this Place. On the Top of this Mountain, as I may well call it, though the Road turns up it by an easy Ascent, begins a Series of such enormous Works for Fortification, as the like is not to be met with in the whole Island. This Road on the Summit of the Hill in a strait Line points directly for Sureby or Burlington-Bay, the S I N U S S A L U T A R I S of Ptolemy. But another Road to the right takes a different Course, and comes down to the Ruins I have before mentioned. From thence the Road leads directly to Londesburg, the Place which I once thought the Station sought for: It passes thro' Lord Burlington's Park, where more of it was laid open last Year than I had before seen, in widening the large and noble Canal in that Inclosure. This Place was before a Morass, and the Romans were obliged to force a Way through it, which is eight Yards broad, and laid with Stone edgeways to a great Depth. The Road passed up the Hill on the other Side this marshy Place, and divided into two Branches on the Top of it; one Way pointing through Weighton to Brough on the Humber, and the other by the East End of Godmondham directly for Beverley; which now I am convinced also was the P E T V A R I A of Ptolemy. From which last Station it must have gone out directly for Patrington or Spurnhead; one of which was certainly the Roman P R A E T O R I V M, mention'd as the last Stage in the first itinerary Route of Antoninus. This Sea-Port must be very commodious to touch at, either going or returning from Gaul, or the Belgic Coasts, and bringing military Stores, &c. from thence, either to York or Malton; to which last Place the CAMOLODVNVM of Ptolemy, another Road branches out, apparently from the Conjunction on the Top of Garrowby-Hill, ahd leads directly to it. But to return to our DELGOVITIA. The [555] The Situation of this Place is admirable, and the stupendous Works about it, thrown up for a Defence to this Station, and the several grand Roads near it, are not to be described. The Town itself was placed on a Declivity of a Hill, almost full South; and very near its Ruins arise some rapid Springs of excellent Water; and so copious, as, when joined in one Stream, turns a Mill; from which I suppose the Name of Millington has proceeded. There was also lately discover'd a Well above a Mile E. b S. from these Springs, dug thro' the solid Rock, Twenty-six Yards deep, which must have been a Roman Work. To the South-West there are no Ramparts thrown up; but to the East, North-East, and due North, the whole Country is full of them. The Vales are all of them guarded by small Encampments at their Angles; the Vestiges of the Barracks, now visible, are called by the Country People the Camps. These were to prevent any sudden Surprize that Way. On the Hills, from Vale to Vale, some of which are from 60 to 90 Yards deep, and prodigious steep, are thrown up Works, as Ramparts, 12 Yards broad, and proportionably high, which join in right Angles with the Vallies, and serve as a strong Barrier everywhere. Whether they had any Palisadoes upon them is uncertain: but without them they are capable of stopping an Enemy; which they had Cause to be apprehensive of~ by its Neighbourhood to the German Ocean, from whence the Saxons gave them many Alarms. Dr. Burton was at the Expence to have the Whole of these Works measur'd and plann'd out; a Map of which has been exhibited to the Society (see T A B. IX.); but, uponmy shewing a correct Copy of the Draught to Lord Burlington, his Lordship order'd me to get the Survey of the Road leading from thence through his Park at Londesburgh to the Division into two added to the former Plan; by which a Course of some C c c c Miles, [556] Miles, and many Thousands more Acres on both Sides the Road are given. F. Drake. 