XXV. Account of a spontaneous In4mmation. By Isaac Humfries, Esq. Inta Letter from Thomas B Woodman« Esq. to George Atwood, Esq. F. Re S Read July so, s794. O:EAR SIPv, Etwell, June , I 79+e 1 INCLOSE you the extract ofthe letter from ISAAC HUMFRIESS Esq. a gentleman resident ln India, and empIoyed in the Cotu pany's service, which relates to the circumstance of the fire I lately mentioned to you Arld am yours, &c. THOMAS 13e WOODMANo CC ON going into the arsellal a few mornings since, I found my friend Mr. GOLDING, the commissary (sf stores, under the greatest uneasiness in corlsequence of an accident which had 11appened the preceding night. A bottle of linseed oil had beell left on a table, close to which a chest stood, which contained some coarse cotton cloth; in the course of the night the bottle of oil was thrown down, and broken on the chest (by rats most probably), and part of the oil ran into the chestn and on the cloth : when the chest was opened in the morningsC 426 3 :Mr. HUMERIES s Accollnt, &c427the cloth was follnd in a very strong llegree of heat, and partly reduced to tinder, and the wood of tlle box discoloured as from burnitlg. After a most minute examination, llo appeararlce of any ot-her inflammable sul)stance collld he found, and how the cloth could have been reduced to the conditioz in which it was found, no one could even conjecture The idea which occurred, and whicla made Mr. GOLDING SO uneasy, was that of an attempt to burn tlae arsenal. Thus matters svere when I joined him, alld whell he told me the story and shewed me the remainder of the cloth. It luckily happened that in solne chemical amusen:lents, I had occasion to consult ISoPsoN9s boot a very few days before, and met with this particular passage, which I read with a determination to pursue the experiment at some future period, but had neglected to do so. Tlle moment I saw the cloth, the similarity of circtllrlstances struck me so forcibly, that I sent for tlae book an(l shewe(l it to Mre GOLDING, who agreed with me that it appeared sufficient to account for the accident. Howerrer, to convince ourselves, we took a piece of the same killd of cloth, wetted it with linseed oiln and put it into a box, which was locked alad carried to his quarters. In about three hours the box began to smoke, wllen on opening it, the cloth was found exactly irl the same condition as that which had given us so much uneasiness in the morning, and on opening the cloth, and admitting the external air, it burst into fire. This was sufficiently convincing, however, to make it more certain, the experiment was three times tried, and w-ith the sarrle success." P. S. The passage Mr. HUMFRIES alludes to is in page 629 of HOPSON}S Chemistry, where, in a note, you will find mention 3 I 2 +28 Mr. HUMFRXES S Account, &c. made of a set of chemical experiments lnade on inflammable sllbstances by a Mr. GIORGI of the Imperial Academy of Petersburgh, in consequence of the burning of a Russian frigate at Crorlstadt in 1781, althougll no fire had been made on board of her for five days beforeR 