L 79 ] VI. Supplementary Note to Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Eleventh Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq. D.UCL. F.RS., Fullerian Prof. (hen. Royal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Sgc. Ssc. Received March 29, 1838. 1307. HAVE recently put into an experimental form that general statement of the question of specific inductive capacity which is given at No. 1252 of Series XI., and the result is such as to lead me to hope the Council will authorise its addition to the paper in the form of a supplementary note. Three circular brass plates, about five inches in diameter, were mounted side by side upon insulating pillars; the middle one, A, was a fixture, but the outer plates B and C were moveable on slides, so that all three could be brought with their sides almost into contact, or separated to any required distance. Two gold leaves were suspended in a glass jar from insulated wires; one of the outer plates B was connected with one of the gold leaves, and the other outer plate with the other leaf. The outer plates B and C were adjusted at the distance of an inch and a quarter from the middle plate A, and the gold leaves were fixed at two inches apart; A was then slightly charged with electricity, and the plates B and C, with their gold leaves, thrown out of insulation at the same time, and then left insulated. In this state of things A was charged positive inductrically, and B with C negative inducteously; the sarne dielectric, air, being in the two intervals, and the gold leaves hanging, of course, parallel to each other in a relatively unelectrifled state. 1308. A plate of shell-lac three quarters of an inch in thickness, and four inches square, suspended by clean white silk thread, was very carefully deprived of all charge (1 203.), so that it produced no effect on the gold leaves if A were uncharged, and then introduced between plates A and B; the electric relation of the three plates was immediately altered, and the gold leaves attracted each other. On removing the shell-lac this attraction ceased; on introducing it between A and C it was renewed; on removing it the attraction again ceased; and the shell-lac when examined by a delicate COULOMB electrometer was still without charge. 1309. As A was positive, B and C were of course negative; but as the specific inductive capacity of shell-lac is about twice that of air (1270.), it was expected that when the lac was introduced between A and B, A would induce more towards B than towards C; that therefore B would become more negative than before towards A, and 80 DR. FARADAY'S EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ELECTRICITY. (SERIES Xi.) consequently, because of its insulated condition, be positive externally, as at its back or at the gold leaves; whilst C would be less negative towards A, and therefore negative outwards or at the gold leaves. This was found to be the case; for on whichever side of A the shell-lac was introduced the external plate at that side was positive, and the external plate on the other side negative towards each other, and also to uninsulated external bodies. 1310. On employing a plate of sulphur instead of shell-lac, the same results were obtained; consistent with the conclusions drawn regarding the high specific inductive capacity of that body already given (1276.). 1311. These effects of specific inductive capacity can be exalted in various ways, and it is this capability which makes the great value of the apparatus. Thus I intro. duced the shell-lac between A and B, and then for a moment connected B and (, uninsulated them, and finally left them in the insulated state; the gold leaves were of course hanging parallel to each other. On removing the shell-lac the gold leyaves attracted each other; on introducing the shell-lac between A and C this attraction was increased, (as had been anticipated from theory,) and the leaves ccaue together, though not more than four inches long, and hanging three inches apart. 1312. By simply bringing the gold leaves nearer to each other I was able to shokv the difference of specific inductive capacity when only thin plates of shelL lac were used, the rest of the dielectric space being filled with air. By bringing B and C nearer to A another great increase of sensibility was made. By enlarging the size of the plates still further power was gained. By diminishing the extent of the wires, &c. connected with the gold leaves, another improvement resulted. So that in fact the gold leaves became, in this manner, as delicate a test of specific induecive action as they are, in BENNETS and SINGER'S electrometers, of ordinary electrical charge. 1313. It is evident that by making the three plates the sides of cells, with proper precautions as regards insulation, &-c., this apparatus may be used 'in the examination of gases, with far more effect than the former apparatus (1187. 1290.), and n'ay, perhaps, bring out differences which have as yet escaped me (1292. 1293.). 1314. It is also evident that two metal plates are quite sufficient to form the instrument; the state of the single inducteous plate when the dielectric is changed, being examined either by bringing a body excited in a known manner towards its gold leaves, or, what I think will be better, employing a carrier ball in place of the leaf, and examining that ball by the COULOMB electrometer (1 180.). TI e inductive and inducteous surfaces may even be balls; the latter being itself the cardier ball of the COULOMB's electrometer (1181. 1229.). 1315. To increase the effect, a small condenser may be used with great advantage. rrhus if, wilen two inducteous plates are used, a little condenser were put in the place of the gold leaves, I have no doubt the three principal plates might be reduced to an inch or even half an inch in diameter. Even the gold leaves act to each other for NATURE OF THE DIFFERENTIAL INDUCTOMETER. 81 the time as the plates of a condenser. If only two plates were used, by the proper application of the condenser the same reduction might take place. This expectation is fully justified by an effect already observed and described (1229.). 1316. In that case the application of the instrument to very extensive research is evident. Comparatively small masses of dielectrics could be examined, as diamonds and crystals. An expectation, that the specific inductive capacity of crystals will vary in different directions, according as the lines of inductive force (1304.) are parallel to, or in other positions in relation to the axes of the crystals, can be tested: I purpose that these and many other thoughts which arise respecting specific inductive action and the polarity of the particles of dielectric matter, shall be put to the proof as soon as I can find time. 1317. Hoping that this apparatus will form an instrument of considerable use, I beg to propose for it (at the suggestion of a friend) the name of Diferential lnductometer. Royal Institution, March 29th, 1838. M iDCCCXXXVmum. M 