0 0 7 Calmer 8 ~ ~ ~ V 8 9 10 11 of the Parish of Gnrinne 9 5 10 0 0 11 5 12 13 14 15 Broad 13 Scale 32 per Inch Moor 14 6 Horse Close 18: 2: 28 0 ~ 17:1:6 6 Scale 13 per Inch Part of the Parish of Gwinne Part of the Parish Horse ~ 17:1:6 0 0 0 0 IX Scale Henry Beighton F. R. S. ~. &c delin 1721. II. A Letter from Richard Richardson, M. D. and F. R. S. to Sir Hans Sloane, Pr. R. S. &c. inclosing a Paper from William Wright, Surgeon, concerning a large Piece of the Thigh-bone, which was taken out, and its~ Place supplied by a Callus. S I R, I Take this Opportunity of inquiring after your Health by my Son, who waits upon you with the inclosed, and Part of the Os Femoris accompanyint it [see TAB. I. Fig. 6.]. As the Case appeared to me something remarkable, I thought proper to communicate it to you. It was drawn up by Mr. Wright, a Surgeon, in Bradford, in the West-Riding of this County, who performed the Cure; and a few Days ago, [762] ago, for my Satisfaction, brought the Person hither, who that Day had walked Nine Miles before Noon. I examined the Part where the Bone was taken out, which is on the Inside of the Thigh, about Four Inches above the Knee; and found the Thigh quite strait, but rather thicker than the other, where the Callus supplies the Defect of the Bone taken out. He appears to be very well and healthy, and makes no Complaint of any Weakness, or Uneasiness, in the Part; neither is he in the least lame. He brought the Bone, which I herewith send, some time ago, and, at my Request, drew up the Case: You may make what Use of it you please: I really believe the Contents to be true; and shall be glad of all Opportunities of obliging you: If any thing farther occurs to me worth your Notice, you may be sure I shall give you an Account of it. I find a Case of this kind in Ruysch's Museum Anatomicum, PAg. 172. but he gives no Account of the Cure; neither is it so extraordinary in itself, as it is only Part of the Os Tibiae which is separated; and this which I send you, appears to me to be the whole Substance of the Bone, except what was eat away before it was taken out. Your very humble Servant, Bierley, Jan. 16. 1739-40. Richard Richardson. S I R, T H I S Bone is Part of the Os Femoris, taken out of a young Man's Thigh, viz. 20 Years old, about the latter End of March 1738. His Name is Hird Ramsden, he lives at a Place called Braithwait, near Kighley. His Lameness was occasioned by a Fever, [763] Fever, which was translated into his Thigh, where it impostumated, and was afterwards opened; but, not healing again, left Three or Four carious or fistulous Ulcers, which discharged a great Quantity of Sanies, and fetid Matter. In this Condition he had been Six or Seven Years, before I was concerned for him, and was looked on as incurable; this continual Discharge had reduced him almost to a Skeleton. I examined his Ulcers with my Probe, and found in one of them, which was on the Inside of his Thigh, a rotten Bone: I dilated the Orifice with Gentian and Sponge Tents, and afterwards I laid it open about Three or Four Inches: I then dressed it with Tincture of Myrrh, and Dossils of dry Lint; and at every Dressing, over the carious Bone the Powder of Rad. Aristot. Myrrh, and Euphorb. in order to promote Exfoliation: With these Applications the Bone began to loosen, which looked much larger than I expected. I was afraid of making another Incision because of the Crural Artery, which lay very near the Place where the Bone was taken out: I therefore chose rather to do it gradually by dilating the Orifice, than run the Risque of another Incision. The same Dressing was continued, and the spongy Flesh kept down with the Powder of Mercur. praecipit. rub. & Alum. Ust. aa. At every Dressing I raised the Bone with a hooked Instrument, and in about Four Months time I got it quite out. The Cavity was afterwards kept open for some time, with Dossils of dry Lint, to make way for some loose Pieces that were left behind. The Ulcer, after it was well digested, healed up in a little time. During this time his Knee was very much contracted, which was afterwards extended 5 G by [764] by the Use of emollient Fomentations. He now is perfectly sound, and in a good State of Health, walks strait, and his Thigh is not any shorter than the other. This is the true State of the Case. I am, S I R, Bradford, Jan. 15. 1739. Your humble Servant, William Wright. 