VI. Extract of a Letter from Mr. Crispe to Mr. George Knapton, upon the same Subject as the Two preceding Papers. Rome, April 24. 1740. A T Portici I saw some antique Paintings, which have lately been taken out of the Ruins of Herculaneum: Two of them, about 12 Feet Square, with their painted Frames or Borders round them, are as fresh and perfect as if done Yesterday; much more so, I assure you, than some of Raphael's in the Vatican; and for Excellence, and fine Taste, they are, I think, beyond any thing I have seen. One of these is called the Pomona, because, among other Figures, there is a Woman sitting crowned with Fruits and Blossoms. The other is Theseus, having just killed the Minotaur, who lies dead at his Feet; a Figure of a Youth is kissing his Right Hand; Ariadne and another Figure stand at his Left. The Figures in both these are as big as Life. There is a Third, somewhat less, of Chiron teaching Achilles on the Harp, if possible, still beyond the Two former. There are above 50 other Pieces, some whole Figures, some Heads, some Mascheras, some Landskips, some Architecture. I was to visit the Ruins under-ground, where I saw several Pieces that were taking down; particularly [494] cularly one 15 Feet wide, and Eight high: It consists of the Front of a large Temple, with Buildings of the same Architecture projecting on each Side, in the Nature of the Wings of a House. There are Houses also adjoining to this Temple, with Windows divided into Squares, which Squares are painted of a greyish Colour: I will not pretend to say, this is to represent Glass, because I believe we have no Authority for it in any Author of Antiquity: But I tell you the Fact as it is, and among the Virtuosi of your Acquaintance you may find out the Meaning. I must observe to you, that in this Architecture the Perspective is very exact; which one may judge of with a good deal of Certainty in those Wings which project. The Architecture is very rich and noble: The Clair-Obscur likewise in the other Pictures, is well understood; particularly in the Pomona, where there are Six Figures, which are very agreeably grouped, and the Eye is immediately pleased and reposed. They have dug up a good many Statues, but not above One or Two that are tolerably good. There is, however, a perfect Bust of Agrippina, Mother of Nero, which was found standing in its Niche: It is as clean as if just finished, has not the least Damage, and is, in the Judgment of every body, as well as myself, equal to most things of that kind in the World: For my own Part, I should not stick to say, it is altogether as fine a Portrait as the Caracalla of the Farnese. There are Two Equestrian Statues in Bronze, broken all to Pieces, but which, by the Parts, one may judge to be as big as the Marcus Aurelius: They are soon to be put together. They have found several antique Rings, with Cameo's and Intaglia's set in them; a Fork, [495] Fork, a Silver Spoon, made in the Handle like a modern one; the Bowl is pointed like an Olive-leaf; a Case of Surgeon's Instruments, several Kitchen Utensils, Mouse-traps, Vessels full of Rice, a Triumphal Car of Bronze, &c. VII. 