The Rev. Mr. Wm. Barlow to the President, concerning a Shock of an Earthquake felt at Plymouth, about One o' Clock in the Morning, between the 8th and 9th of Feb. 1749-50. S I R, IT is proper to observe, that the following Relations are not made by mean, ignorant, or fanciful People, but by Persons of good 2 Sense, Read May 24. 1750. [693] Sense, whose Veracity is unquestionable, and whose Judgment in this Case is, I think, rational and just. Wm. Barlow. The Earthquake at London was on Thursday, February 8. about Noon. The Declaration of the Hon. Philip Vanbrugh Esq; Commissioner of His Majesty's Dock-Yard near Plimouth, Devon. THAT, in the Night, betwixt Thursday the 8th Day of February 1749. and the Day following, towards One o' Clock, as he was reading in Bed, he was sensibly affected by a sudden Shake: That, looking about, he observed, betwixt the FootCurtains, which were partly open, some Drawings which hung on the Wall, also the Side-Curtains, in a trembling Motion: That it immediately brought into his Mind the Earthquake in Jamaica in 1692. which several Years ago had been, at Jamaica, particularly described to him, by a Person who was in the Island at the time of that Earthquake. March 12. 1749. Ph. Vanbrugh. The Declaration of Mrs. Vanbrugh, Sister of the Commissioner, living in the same House. THAT, the Night above-mention'd, at what Hour she cannot say, she was greatly surprised by an unusual Motion of her Bed; which immediately brought [694] brought to her Thoughts the Shock of an Earthquake she felt several Years before, to which in her Mind she resembled the present Shake. March 12. 1749. Victoria Vanbrugh. The Declaration of Mrs. Slade, Daughter of Mr. Slade, Master-Shipwright of His Majesty's DockYard, Devon. T H A T, in the Night above-mention'd, towards One o' Clock, she perceiv'd a sensible Motion of her Bed, and (there being a Light in the Room) saw the Curtains shake. This she thought to be occasion'd by the Wind (which she then heard blow strong), supposing the Sash not to be close down: Accordingly she rose, and went to the Windows, but found the Sashes intirely close. March 12. 1749. Elizabeth Slade. N. B. Both the Commissioner and the Ladies believe there was only a single Shake. Miss Slade's House joins the Commissioners. On account of the dead Time of the Night in which it happen'd, not many People would be sensible of the Motion: Of those who were, most would naturally attribute it to the high Wind, which then blew; and a Month being pass'd before any Inquiry has been made, it is not to be wonder'd at that, but few recollect any thing concerning it. The [695] The Commissioner, by reason of frequent Returns of the Gout, does not sleep up-stairs, but in a very small Room behind the House, joining to the House, and communicating by a Door with one of the back Parlours. This Building is so low (being only a Ground-floor, without any Room over it), and is so skreen'd by higher Buildings, that hardly any Wind can affect it; especially the Wind which blew that Night; as the Body of the Commissioner's House was betwixt that and the Stroke of the Wind. The Dock is about two Miles West from Plymouth, and about 220 almost West from London. 