Of some Philosophical and curious Books, that are shortly to come abroad. 1. Of the Origine of Forms and Qualities, deduced from Mechanical Principles; by the Honorable Robert Boyle Esq. 2. Hydrostatical Paradoxes, by the same Both in English. 3. A Tract of the Origine of the Nile, by Monsieur Isaac Vossius, opposed to that of Monsieur de la Chambre, who is maintaining, That Niter is the principal cause of the Inundation of that River. 4. A Differtation of Vipers, by Signor Redi, an Italian. 5. A Discourse of the Anatomy of a Lyon, by the same. 6. Another, De Figuris Salium, by the same. 7 A Narration of the Establishment of the Lyncei, an Italian Academy, and of their Design and Statutes: the Prince Cest being the Head of them, who did also intend to establish such Philosophical Societies in all parts of the World, and particularly in Africa and America, to be by that means well informed of what considerable productions of Nature were to be found in those parts. The Author yet Anonymus. 8. To these I shall add, a Book newly Printed in Oxford (and not yet dispersed) being, A Catalogue of Fixed Stars with their Longitudes, Latitudes, and Magnitudes, according to the Observations of Uleg-Beig (a King, and famous Astronomer, who was Great-Grand-childe to the famous Tamerlane (146) lane, and one of his Successors in some of his Kingdoms) made at Samarcand, his cheief seat, (for the year of the Hegira 841, for the year of Christ 1437.) who not finding the Tables of Ptolemy to agree sufficiently with the Heavens, did with great diligence, and expense, make observations anew; as Tycho Brahe hath since done. It is a small part of a larger Astronomical Treatise of his, whereof there be divers Persian Manuscript Copies in Oxford. Out of which this is Translated and Published, both in Persian and Latine. by Mr. Thomas Hyde, now Library Keeper to the Bodleyan Library in Oxford: (with Commentaries of his annexed:) Like as another part of it hath formerly been by Mr. John Graves. And it were a desirable work that the whole were Translated, that we might be the better acquainted with what was the Eastern Astronomy at that time. Published with License, Oxford, Printed by A: & L: Lichfield, for Ric: Davis. 1666. 