V. An account of a Roman altar, with an inscription upon it, found in April last at York, and communicated to the Society of Antiquaries by Mr. Francis Drake, F.R.S. As also a brief explication of the inscription by John Ward, LL.D.Professor of Rhetoric in Gresham College, and V. P. R. S. THIS altar was found, with other remains of antiquity, by some workmen, in opening a new and deep drain down the centre of a large street, called Micklegate, in the E city Read Feb. I, 1753. [34] city of York. Its hight with the pedestal, on which it stands, and which is made hollow to receive it, is fourteen inches and a quarter. But the breadth varies in several parts of it, according to their different form. On the top is an apex, with a volute on each side, and on the front a pediment over the inscription. It is elegant for the workmanship, and well preserved. And that a better judgement may be formed of it at this distance, Mr. Drake has sent up a draught of it in its just proportion, with the inscription upon it; as also another copy of the inscription, taken off from the stone, by pressing wet paper into the letters, and then delineating both them and the stops with a pencil. A copy of the draught, but reduced to one half of the size, accompanies this discourse, to which I take leave to refer (1); and shall only subjoin here the inscription itself in words at length, as I think it may be read. Matribus Africis, Italicis, Germanicis, (2) Marcus Minucius Ande. miles legionis sextae victricis, gubernator legionis sextae, votum solvit libentissime merito. I. By (1) See T A B. I. Fig. 2. (2) The abbreviation of this word being G N. as Mr. Drake as~ me in a letter, which I received from him, since I wrote this ~; it may, I presume, be read, as I have now given it. Tho, in the copy of the inscription delineated upon the stone, the ~ of the letters seemed to be G A L. for which reason I then read it Gallicis. Philos.Trans.Vol.XLVIII. TAB.II. Fig. 2. ~. 124. Fig.3. p.333. IMP TE TRICVS AVG LOCVMRELI GIOSVMPERIN SOLENTIAM.E RVTVM ~ AVGREPVRGA TVMREDDIDIT CSEVERI VS EMERITVS~ PEG A perspective View of Fig. 1. ~ ~ [35] I. By this inscription, and many others of the like sort, found in Britain and other countries, it appears, that these female deities, under the name of Matres, were worshiped in most parts of the Roman territories. So that the observation of the learned Spon seems not to have been so well founded, when he sais: Notandum, has Matres fere tantum in Gallia et Germania fuisse cultas, raro enim alibi earum reperiuntur inscriptae arae (1). In most of these inscriptions they are only called Matres, but in some Deae Matres; and frequently the country, or particular place, where they were worshiped, is subjoined. Thus, in Horsley's Britannia Romana, among the inscriptions found in Britain, we have, Matres domesticae, Matres Alatervae, et Matres campestres; as also Matres tramarine, for transmarinae (2). Which last title, being in another inscription writen Matres tramai (3), occasioned the learned Selden to say: Quid sibi vellet, ne hariolari quidem ausus sum (4). And in the inscription now under consideration we meet with Matres Africae, Italicae, Germanicae. Writers are not agreed in their opinion concerning these female deities, who were worshiped under the character of Matres. Spon supposes they were deified women, who, while living, were thought to have the gift of prophecy. The reasons for which opinion having been given at large in Horsley, I shall for brevity sake take leave to refer to the passage (5). E 2 But (1) Miscel. erud. antiq. p. 105. (2) Brit. Rom. Cumb. XL. Scotl. XXIX. Cumb. LI. (3) Ibid. p. 298. (4) De Diis Syris, Syntagm. II. c. 2. (5) Pag. 201. See also Reines. Cl. I. n. 175. p. 188. [36] But Selden applies them all to the Dea Syria, or Mater Deorum; whom St. Augustin, as he observes, takes for Juno, and sais: Tot esse Junones, quot sunt simulacra (1). Agreably to which notion we find several altars in Gruter inscribed Junonibus, in the plural number (2). And Plutarch takes notice of the worship paid to the Deum Matri at Enguium in Sicily (3); which Cicero seems to allude to, when he sais, Matris magnae sanum apud Enguinos est (4). I shall only add further upon this head, that, as we meet with several inscriptions, which have on them the title of Matronae, to whom they are addressed; Spon thinks, not improbably, that these Matronae were the same deities as the Matres, or Matrae, as they are sometimes writen, who were indifferently worshiped by each of those titles, of which he has given a variety of instances (5). 2. The two first names of the person, who dedicated this altar, were doubtless Marcus Minucius; but the third, as here abbreviated, is uncertain. Tho I apprehend, that the two first letters in the ligature may be AN. which, with the two following DE. may stand for Andegavus, or, as it is sometimes writen, Andecavus; as denoting the name of his country, now called Anjou in France. 3. This (1) Ubi supra. (2) Pag. XXIV. 1, 2, 3, 4, et alibi. (3) In vit. Marcelli. (4) In Verr. lib. IV. c. 44. (5) Ubi supra, pag. 104. [37] 3. This Marcus Minucius describes himself by two characters or imployments; first, as a soldier of the sixth legion, which was honored with the title of victrix; and then as pilot of the same legion, the epithet victrix not being repeated the second time, as unnecessary. It was not unusual among the Romans for persons to express their several titles, or imployments of life, in the inscriptions cut upon such votive altars. Many of these are to be met with in collections of this kind; in some of which they are connected by the particle et; and in others not, as in the instance before us. I shall produce an example or two of each kind, to set this matter in a clearer light. Of the former sort we have in Gruter: I. O. M. ET. FORTVNAE. SECVNDAE CAES. M. ANTONINI. IMP M. LICINIVS. COR. II. VIR COL. DAC. SARMIZ. ET. FLA MEN. DIALIS. SIGNVM. 10 VIS. EX. VETVSTATE. RE STITVIT (~). And again: APOLLINI. AVG SACR FELIX. AVG. LIB. OPTIO ET. EXACTOR. AVRI. ET ARGENTI. ET. AERIS (2). In (1) Pag. VIII. 1. (2) Pag. XXXVI. 8. [38] In both these instances the conjunction ET is expressed between the two characters, but in others it is omited. As in the same author: HERCVLI INVICTO M. CASSIVS HOR TENSIVS PAVLINVS PRAE. VRD. XV. VIR SACRIS FACIVND. DONVM DEDIT (~) So also in Reinesius: IVNONI. REGIN SACRVM D. N. DIOCLETIANI IN CLYTI. PRINCIP. SEM. AVG. PINIVS PAVLLVS SILVANVS VIR CLAR. PRAEF. VRB. IVDEX. SACRARVM. COGNITIO NVM. VOLVNT. EIVS CVR. (2). And the like we meet with in Horsley, where one Marcus Censorius Cornelianus stiles himself, Centurio legionis decimae Fretensis, praefectus cohortis primae Hispanorum (3). In the first four of these instances the different characters given to the several persons are such, as might belong to them at the same time; but in the last they seem not compatible. 4. The (1) Pag. XLVIII. ult. in tab. priori. (2) Class. 1. num. 282, p. 241. (3) Cumberl. LXIII. [39] 4. The title gubernator, or pilot, I do not remember to have met with in any other Roman inscription. And notwithstanding the first line is placed at some distance from the rest; yet it may, I think, connect with them, without supplying the word sacrum, in the following manner: Matribus Africis, Italicis, Germanicis, Marcus Minucius, etc. votum solvit libentissime merito. An instance of the like kind may be seen in Horsley, ending with the same letters, V S L L M, which he reads in the same manner (1). It appears, by an inscription in Gruter (2), and republished by Dr. Gale (3), that this legion was transported from Germany to Britain in the reign of the emperor Hadrian, under the command of Marcus Pontius; who is there called, Tribunus militum legionis sextae victricis, cum qua ex Germania in Britanniam transiit. The inscription therefore upon this altar at York may, as I apprehend, refer to that voiage; and intimate to us, that Marcus Minucius, by whom it was erected, was then pilot to the legion. It is probable indeed, as Horsley observes (4), that (1) Scotland XXVII. Reinesius, Class. 1, num. 3~ reads the letters LL. laetus libens, and cites for it an inscription in Gruter, pag. MLXXXIV. 4. which ends with the abbreviated words, L A E T. LIB. F E C I T. And there is another inscription published by Spon, in his Miscell. erud. ant. p. 107; and afterwards by Fabretti, pag. 690, n. 111. which has the words L A E T V S. L I B E N S. at length. However Reinesius adds: Vocabulum positivi geminatum infert superlativum; so BB. bene bene, is the same as optime; and LL. may stand for lubentissime or libentissime. And in like manner MM~ is read in the superlative meritissimo. (2) Pag. CCCCLVII. 2. (3) Antonin. Iter Britann. pag. 47. (4) Pag. 79. [40] that upon its first arrival it made no stop in the south, but marched directly by the usual rout to Hadrian's vallum; since there are several inscriptions upon and near the wall, both in Northumberland and Cumberland, wherein this legion is mentioned. And in the following reign of Antoninus Pius we find, by several other inscriptions, that it was in Scotland, and had a share in building the wall there (1). Not long after it might very probably be stationed at York, where Ptolemy places it (2), who lived under the next emperor Marcus Aurelius, as we learn from Suidas (3). The legion therefore being thus settled, Marcus Minucius might then think it a proper time to pay his vows, formerly made to those deities, whom he addresses in the inscription cut upon this altar. I thought it necessary to give this view of the matter, for the sake of obviating an objection, which possibly may be made, as well with regard to the time of erecting the altar, as to the person, by whom it was erected. What I more especially refer to, is the form of the letters G and L, as they appear upon the altar. For altho they are found in the like shape in several British inscriptions published by Horsley, yet none of those seem to be altogether so antient. There is one with the G, which that writer is uncertain, whether to refer to Commodus or Caracalla (4). And another with the L plainly relates to the reign of Severus, by the names of (1) See Horsley, Scotland, IV, VII, XVIII. (2) Horsley, pag. 359. (3) In voc. ~, ~ ~ ~. (4) Lancashire, 111. ~ [41] of the consuls Aper and Maximus, who are mentioned in it, and answer to the year 207 of our common aera (1). The rest of them have nothing certain to determine their age; tho by some circumstances which attend them, they seem generally to agree better with later times. But if that particular form of either of those letters is not to be found in any of our British inscriptions hitherto published, before the reign of Commodus or Severus; it by no means follows, that it might not have been used sooner. And there was only the reign of Marcus Aurelius, that intervened between those of Antoninns Pius and Commodus, who in a few months was succeeded by Severus. Besides, as the sixth legion, after it settled at York, seems to have been statedly quartered there, till the Romans left Britain (2); I do not perceive, either to what other time, or person with the character of pilot to that legion, the erection of this altar can be ascribed. But this I leave to the further consideration of the curious, to judge of it as they please. G. C. Nov. 9, J. Ward. 1752. (1) Cumberland, XLIV. (2) See Horsley, p. 79. F VI. 