Part of a Letter from the Rev. Henry Miles, D. D. F. R. S. to Mr. H. Baker, F. R. S. concerning the Earthquake felt on Sept. 30. 1750. Tooting, October 30. 1750. A Worthy Friend, the Rev. Mr. Daniel Goodrich, who liveth at Oundle in Northamptonshire, has sent me an Account of the Earthquake felt in that and the neighbouring Counties, on Sept. 30th, at 12 1/2 at Noon. Read Nov. 1. 1750. He informs me, that he was then at Uppingham in Rutlandshire, sitting in a Room intent on writing and thinking, when he was surprised with a Sound very strong and awful; which, at the first Moment, made him think of the rattling of a Coach upon the Pavement: But this Apprehension was immediately corrected by somewhat very different in the Sound, and raised in him an Idea of the crashing of a falling House. He felt himself in a very shaking way: The Table at which he sat shivered, and the Windows of the Room jarred: But he did not think of an Earthquake, till the People of the House came into the Room, and told him what had happened. Some Slates were shaken off the Houses, and in one House the Hammer of a Clock struck the Bell: Some Chimnies were thrown down; many talked of a sensible [727] sensible Heaving of the Ground: But, he says, he is credibly informed, that, in one House in that County, the Mud Floor was cracked not a little in three or Four Places. In one House, in the Town of Uppingham, where two Men and a Woman were immediate, upon the Approach of the Sound (tho' they had no Thought of an Earthquake), the Men could hardly draw their Breath in the House; but were immediately obliged to go out for fresh Air; but the Woman felt no Disorder. My Friend adds, that attentive Observers apprehended the Sound to have moved from the N. to the S. or from N. W. to S. E. and that himself had the same Apprehension; and that, according to his present Intelligence, the whole Shock was felt in the Counties of Northampton, Leicester, Nottingham, Rutland, and Lincoln, affecting a Tract of the County of about 60 Miles in Length, and as much in Breadth. I have given you the Account in his own Words, with very small Variation. 