(191) V. An Account of a Book entituled, Jo. Ph. Breynij, M. D. &c. Dissertatio Physica de Poylthalamiis, nova Testaceorum classe, &c. Gedani, 1732, 4to, or a Physical Dissertation of a new Class of Shells, which he stiles Polythalamiums, &c. with fourteen Copper Plates. By Richard-Middleton Massey, M. D. F. R. S. and Hon. F. C. Med. Lond. IN the first Chapter he discourses of Shells in general, and premises a Method of placing them in different Classes, which he reduces to eight, viz. Tubulus, Cochlidium, Polythalamium, Lepas, Concha, Conchoides, Balanus, and Echinus. The second Chapter treats of Polythalamiums, which he defines a Tabulous Shell divided into several Cavities, conical, straight, or regularly Spiral, with a Pipe, or Canal, passing through each Cavity. This again he subdivides into four, viz. 1. Orthoceras, 2. Lituus, 3. Ammonia, and 4. Nautilus. The third Chapter treats of the Nautilus and Nautilites, which last he takes to be a Stone form'd under Ground in the Cavities of the Nautilus. The fourth Chapter is of the Ammonia and Ammonites. The fifth is of the Lituus (which he names from some Resemblance it has to the Lituus, or Crosier, which (192) which the ancient Roman Augurs used in their Ceremonies) and the Lituites or Stone form'd in its Cavities under-ground. The Shell is yet unknown, but of the Stone he has given a curious Draught, as it appears in a Marble which was brought from Oelandt, an Island of Sweden. The sixth Chapter is of the Orthoceras and Orthoceratites, or stony Concretion in its Cavity. Of these last Stones he produces nine different Species, which he distinguishes chiefly by the Pipe, or Canal, which runs through them. In his Note concerning the Belemnites Prussici, of which he describes two Species, he takes notice that the stony Cone, or Nucleus of it, is never found articulate, as in those that come from Sweden, and some other Countries. At the latter end of his Book he proposes a methodical Distribution of the Echini and Echinites, or Stones that are generated under Ground in the Cavities of the Echini. The whole Method he proposes for ranging Shells in general, may be seen in the following Table. Tabula (193) Tabula Methodica T E S T A C E O R U M. ~Dentalia Entalia ~T U B U L U S Solen-univalvis -unde Belemnites ~Nautilus tenuis ~Monothalamia Auris marina Nerita Cochlea Buccinum C O C H L I D I U M Murex Cassis * ~Tubulosa Cylindrum * Voluta * Porcellana * ~Nautilus Ammonia Polythalamia P O L Y T H A L A M I U M Lituus Orthocerata Testa ~L E P A S Patella ~Chama ~Simplex Mytulus Tellen C O N C H A Pinna Ostrea Pecten Vasculosa Anomia ~Pholas ~C O N C H O I D E S Concha Anatifera B A L A N U S Balanus Composita ~Echinometra Echinoconus Echinocorys E C H I N U S Echinanthos Echinospatagus Echinobrissus Echinodiscus C c VI. 