TRANSACTION-S IX. On the Conversion of the Substance of a Bird into a hard fatty Matter.l In a Letter from Thornas Sneyd, Esq. to Sit Joseph Banks, Bart. P. R. S. lRead March e9, 179a. SIR, 1 TARE the liberty of sending you two or three pieces of a bird whose substance has been converted into a hard fatty matter, which I found at the head of a fish pool, where a snzall brook rurls into it Iying under water vIpon the mud. When first taken out, it was almost entire, and had several feathers sticking in differerlt parts of the skin, which have since fallen out; a little down, however, still adheres to the smaller speci men. itrom the size, and general appearance of the bird, I conjectured it to be a duck, or young goose; but before I had tilue tc) give it a particular examination, it was unfortuxiately broken in pieces, and the greatest part destroyed. l'he skin in the piece which was saved is of different thicknesses in some parts a full quarter of an inch; it has retained its originaln ;NIOGC XCI Is D dPHILOSOPHICAL o98Mr-. SKEYD, On t1be Conversion, &5c.structure exactly, but is in great part separated from the flesh,, though both of them are now composed of the same-fat matter. This substance resembles spermaceti in its consistellce between the teeth, but 11as neither taste nor smell; it melts in a small heat and when congealed againR becvlnes more solid and looks like wax; ill a greater heat it burns, and emits a strong animal smell. As I never l-leard or perceived that the water in which this bird lay has any particulgr property, I am lnclined to think that it has undergone this singular change while buried in the mud, and that the brook had afterwards washed it up, and carried it into this pool. I am sorry that the specinzen and my account of this singularmetamorphosis are so-<t1nperfect. The analogy which the case bears to the change of hutnan bodies observed by M. Fou CROY * in the Cemetery des Innocents is my chief reason for offering them to yOu5; and if they should be deemed worthy of the notice csf the illustrious Society over which you preside yollXare at Iiberty to present them. I am very respectfully &c. THO. SNEY-Dv Belmont, near I eek Nfa,ffordshzze3 March I 6tb, I 792** Atlnales de Chimic, Tom. Y0 p. I54ixe 