PHILOSOPH2ICAL TRAN SACT I ON S. XIL. Observations of a second Comet, with Remarks on its Cont struction. By William Herschel, LL. D. P. R, S. Read March t2, 18 i. Aks we have lately had two comets to observe at the same time, I have called that of which the following observations are given, the second. Its appearance has been so totally different from that of the first, that every particular relating to its construction becomes valuable; and notwithstanding the unfavourable state of the weather at this time of the year, I have been sufficiently successful to obtain a few good views of the phenomena which this comet has afforded. A short detail of the observations in the order of their relation to the different cometic appearances, is as follows: The Body of the Comeet. January 1, 1812. I viewed the second comnet with several of my telescopes, and found it to have a considerable nucleus surrounded with very faint chevelure. Jan. 2. The comet had a large round nucleus within its faint nebulosity. Not seeing it very well dElAfined, and of so MDCCCXIr. H h ?30 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a second Comet, large a diameter, I doubted whether it could be the body of the comet; but although it mnight be called very large whelk supposed to be of a planetary construction, it was much too small for the condensed light of a head; its diameter, by estimation not exceeding 5 or 6 seconds. Byway of comparing -the., two comets togetherJ.I viewed them alternately. The first, within a nebulosity which in the form of a brilliant head was of great extent, had nothing resembling a nucleus: the light of this head was very gradually much brighter up to the very middle; its small planetary body being invisible. The second comet, on the; contrary, although sur. rounded by a faint chevelure, seemed to be all nucleus; for the abrupt transition from the central light to that of the chevelure would not admit of the idea of a gradual condensation of nebulosity, such as I saw in the head of the first comet; but plainly pointed out that the nucleus and its chevelure were two distinct objects. Jan. 8. The comethad a pretty well defined nucleus with very faint chevelture. When magnified 170 times the nucleus, though less bright, was rather better defined. Jan. iS. Within a very faint chevel]Ure I saw the nucleus as before. Jan. 20o. The air being uncommonly clear, I saw the body of the comet well defined; and as the moon was already so far advanced in its orbit as to render future opportunities of viewing the comet very improbable, I ascertained the magni-M tude of its body, with a very distinct lo feet reflector, by the following three observations. First with a low power, which gave a bright image of the nucleus, I kept my attention fixed upon its apparent size; then with Remnarks on its Giost;uctiono, looking away from the telescope, I mentally revievwed' the imp pression its appearance hadmade on the -imagination, in order to see, whether it was a faithful D picture of the object; and by looking again into the telescope I wassatisfied of the similitude. In the next place I used a deeper magnifier, and alternately viewed andremembered Dthe appearance of tthe nucleus. It was fainter with this power. The third observation was made in the same manner with a magnifier of 17o.;' This showed the nucleus of a larger diameter, but much less bright, and not so wvell defined. The next morning, having recourse to my usual experiment with a set of globules, by viewing them at a given distance with the same telescope and eye-glasses, I found that one of them, on which I fixed, gave me, as nearly as could be esti mated, the same magnitude with the first eye-glass, and was proportionally magnified by the second and third, with only this difference, that the highest power showed the globule with more distinctness than it did the nucleus; and by trigonometry the angle under which I saw the globule was found to be S" ,2744 It will be necessary to mention that in the calculations belonging to this comet, I have used the elements of Mr. GAUS, with a small-correction of the longitude of the perihelion, which I found would answer the end of giving the observed place with sufficient accuracy from the 1st of January to the I prefer this method of ascertaining the small diameter of a faint object to mea. suring it with a micrometer, which requires light to show the wires, and a high magnifying powerto give an image sufficiently large for mensuration; neither of which conditions -the, present comet would admit. HI h . 232 Dr. HERSCHEL'S Observations of a second Comet, 20th. These calculations mnay however-be repeated, if heres after we should obtain elements improved by additional obser. vations, made with fixed instruments ; but the result, I may venture to, say, will not be materially different. The distance of the comet from the earth, the 20th of Jan nuary when its apparent diameter was determined, was i,o867, the mean distance of the earth from the sun being i; whence we deduce a very remarkable consequence, which is, that the real diameter of its nucleus cannot be less than 2637 miles. The Chevelure of the Comet. Instead of that bright appearance, which in the first comet has been considered as the head, there was about the nucleus of the second a faint whitish scattered light, which may be called its chevelure. Jan. i.* Examining the chevelure of the comet with a io feet reflector, I found that it surrounded the nucleus, not in the form of a head consisting of gradually much condensed nebulosity, but had the appearance of a faint haziness, which altlough of some extent, was not much brighter near thenucleus than at a distance from it. Jan. 2. I viewed the two comets alternately. The first could only be distinguished from a bright globular nebula by the scattered light of its tail, which was still 2' 2o' long. The second comet, oin the contrary, had nothing in its appearance ,resembling such a nebula: it consisted merely of a nucleus, surrounded by a very faint chevelure; and had it not been for an extremely faint light in a direction opposite to the sun, it would hardly have been intitled to the name of a comet; with Remarks on its Constructionh. having rather the appearance of a planet seen through an at` mosphere full of haziness. Jan. 8. The chevelure consisted of so faint a light that, when magnified only 170 times, it was nearly lost. Jan. iS. 'The chevelure was extremely faint and of very little extent. Jan. 20. The light of the moon, which was up, would not admit of further accurate observations on the chevelure. The Tail of the Comet. Jan. a. With a low magnifying power, I saw in the to feet reflector an extremely faint scattered light, in opposition to the sun, forming the tail of the comet. It reached from the, centre of the double eyeglass half way toward the circumference. Jan. 8. The narrow very faint scattered light beyond the chevelure remains extended in the direction opposite the sunf. Jan. i8. I estimated the length of the tail by the propor.flon it bore to the diameter of the field of the eye-glass, which takes in 38' 1"91, and found that it filled about one quarter of it, which gives 9' 40". Jan. 20. On account of moonlight the tail was no longervisible. From the angle which it subtended in the last observation, it will be found that its length must have been about 659 thoarn sand miles. Remarks on the Constructionn of the Comet., The method I have taken in my last paper of comparing together the phenomena of difterent comets appears to inc Dr. iERSCEL's Observations of a second Comet, most likely to throw some light upon a subject .which still rev mains involved in great obscurity. When the comet of which the observations have been given in this paper is compared with the preceding one, it will be found to be extremely dift ferent. Its physical construction appears indeed. to approach -nearly to a planetary condition. In its magnitude it bears a considerable proportion to the size of the planetsthe diameter of its nucleus bein1g very nearly one-third of that of the earth. The light by which we see it is probably also planetary; that is to say reflected from the sun. For were it of a phosphoric, selfiluminous nature, we could hardlyaccount for its little density: for instance, the very small body of the first comet, at the distance of 114 -millions of miles from the earth bore a magnifying power of 6o, and was even seen better with this than with a lower one ;`v` whereas the second, notwithstanding its large size, and, being only at the distance of 103 mlllions, had not light enough. to bear conveniently to be magnified 107 times; butt if we admit this nucleus to be opaque, like the bodies of the planets, and of a nature not to reflect much light, then its distance from the sun, which the soth of January was above 174 millions of miles, will explain the cause of its feeble illumination. That the nucleus of this comet was surrounded by an; atmosphere appears from its chevelure, which, though faint, wasof considerable extent; and the elasticity of this atmosphere may be inferred from the spherical figure of the chevelure, proved by its roundness and equal decrease of light at equal distances from the centre. * See Observations of then First Comet. with Remarkson its" Construction. 235 The; transparency of the atmosphere ispartly ascertained from our seeing the -nucleus through;it, but may also be inferred byanalogy from an observation of the first comet. It willberemnembered that an atino-spher of great transparency, which'ha~d been seen for a long time, was lost when the comet receded from the sun, by the subsidence 'of some nebulous matter not sufficiently rarified to enter the regions of thle tail.* Now as the existence of this atmosphere, when it was no longer visible,might, have been doubted, the luminous inatter suspended in-it, which had already -so days obstructed our view of it, happened fortunately to be once more elevated the 9th of December, and thereby enabled us, from its trans. parency and capacity of sustaining luminous vapours, toascertain the continuance of its existence. By analogy, therefore, we may surmnise that the faint chevelure of the second comet consists also of the condensation of some remaining phosphoric matter, suspended in the lower regions, of an elastic, transparent fluid, extending probably far beyond the chevelure witl. out our being able to perceive it. We might ascribe the little extent and extreme faintness of the tail tothe great perihelion distance of the comet, if it' had not already been proved, by the comparative view which Ien my last paper has been taken of the two comnets of 1807 and 18i1, that the effect of-the solar agency depends entirely uponl the state of the nebulous matter, which the comet inl its approach exposes to the action of the sun. Our last comet therefore had ,probably but little unperih-elioned matter in its atmosphere.. The high consolidation of the matter contained in the seconA * See Observations of the First Comes. -236 Dr. HE, RSCHEL'S Observations of a second Comet, comet is also much supported by the different appearance of the two comets in the observation of the 2d of January. In order to judge of them properly, we must consider their situa. tion with regard to the sun and the earth; the first comet was 92 millions of miles from the sun; the second only 164: the first was at the same time 262 millions from the earth: the second only 83; but notwithstanding the great disadvantage of being 28 millions of miles farther from the sun, and about 179 millions farther from -the earth, the first comet had the luminous appearance of a brilliant head accompanied by a tail 45 millions of miles in length ; whereas the second comet, so advantageously situated, had only a very faint chevelure about its large but faint nucleus, with a still fainter tail, whose length has been shown not much to exceed half a million. If then the effect of the action of the sun on the comets at the time of their perihelion passage is more or less conspicuous, according to the quantity of unperihelioned nebulous matter they contain, we may by observation of cometic phenomena arrange these celestial bodies into a certain order of consolidation, from which, in the end, a considerable insight into their nature and destination may be obtained. The three last observed comets, for instance, will give us already the following results. The comet of which this paper contains observations, is of such a construction that it was but little more affected by a perihelion passage than a planet would have been. This may be ascribed to its very advanced state of consolidation, and to Its having but a small share of phosphoric or nebulous matter in its construction. That of thee year 1807 was more affected, and although witlh Remarks on its Construction. 237 considerably condensed, showed clearly -that it conveyed a great quantity of nebulosity to the perihelion passage. The comet of last year contained with little solidity a most abundant portion of nebulous matter, on which, in its approach to the perihelion, the action of the sun produced those beaux tiful phenoimena, which have so favourably afforded an opportunity for critical observations. MDCCCXI* IA 