The Character, lately published beyond the Seas, of an Eminent Person, not long since dead at Tholouse, where he was a Councellor of Parliament. It is the deservedly famous Monsieur de Fermat, who was, (faith the Author of the Letter) one of the most Excellent Men of this Age, a Genius so universal, and of so vast an extent, that if very knowing and learned Men had not given testimony of his extraordinary merit, what with truth can be said of him, would hardly be believed. He entertained a constant correspondence with many of the most Illustrious Mathematicians of Europe, and did excel in all the parts of Mathematical Science: a Testimony whereof he hath left behind him in the following Books. A Method for the Quadrature of Parabola's of all degrees. A Book De Maximis & Minimis, which serveth not only for the determination of Problems of Plains and Solids, but also for the invention of Tangents and Curve Lines, and of the Centres of Gravity in Solids; and likewise for Numerical Questions. An Introduction to the Doctrine of Plains and Solids, which is an Analytical Treatise, concerning the solution of Plains and Solids, which had been seen (as the Advertiser affirms) before Monsieur Des Cartes had publish'd any thing upon this Subject. A Treatise De Contactibus Sphaericis, where he hath demonstrated in Solids, what Mr. Viet, Master of Requests, had but demonstrated in Plains. Another Treatise, wherein he establitheth and demonstrateth the two Books of Apollonius Pergaeus, of Plains. And a General Method for the dimension of Curve Lines, &c. Besides, having a perfect knowledge in Antiquity, he was consulted from all parts upon the difficulties that did emerge therein: he hath explained abundance of obscure places, that are found (16) found in the Antients. There have been lately printed some of his Observations upon Athenaeus; and he that hath interpreted Benedetto Castelli, of the Measure of running waters, hath thence inserted in his Work a very handsome one upon an Epistle of Synesius, which was so difficult, that the Jesuit Petavius, who hath commented upon this Author, acknowledges, that he could not understand it. He hath also made many Observations upon Theon of Smyrne, and upon other Antient Authors: but most part of them are not found but scattered in his Epistles, because he did not write much upon these kinds of Subjects, but to satisfie the curiosity of his friends. All these Mathematical Works, and all these curious searches in Antiquity, did not hinder this great Virtuoso from discharging the duties of his place with much assiduity, and with so much ability, that he hath had the reputation of one of the greatest Civilians of his Age. But that, which is most of all surprising to many,is,that with all that strength of understanding, which was requisite to make good these rare qualities, lately mentioned, he had so polite and delicate parts, that he composed Latin, French and Spanish Verses with the same elegancy, as if he had lived in the time of Augustus, and passed the greatest part of his life at the Courts of France and Spain. More particulars will perhaps be mention'd of the Works of this Rare person, when all things, that he hath publish'd, shall be recovered, and when liberty shall be obtained of his Worthy Son, to impart unto the World the rest of his Writings, hitherto unpublished. Printed with Licence, For John Martin, and James Allistry, Printers to the Royal Society. 