A Letter of Francis Willoughby Esquire, of August 24. 1671. Containing some considerable Observations about that kind of Wasps, call'd Vespae Ichneumones; especially their several ways of Breeding, and among them, that odd way of laying their Eggs in the Bodies of Caterpillars, &c. AS I remember, M. Lister's opinion is, that the Muscae Ichneumones lay their Eggs in the bodies of Caterpillars; which I look upon as very ingenious and true, and must subscribe to it, though I cannot yet absolutely demonstrate it, as I hoped I should have done before this. These Ichneumoues have all four wings, Antennae like Bees; their body hanging to their breast by a slender ligament, as in Wasps; most if not all, have stings, and are made of a maggot, that spins her self a Theca before she turns into a Nympha. There is great variety of them; Some breed, as Bees do, laying an Egg, which produceth a maggot, which they feed till it comes to its full growth: Others, as we guess, thrust in their Eggs into plants, the bodies of living caterpillars, maggots, &c. For, it is very surprizing to observe, that a great Caterpillar, instead of being changed into a Butter-fly (according to the usual course of nature;) should produce sometimes one, sometimes two or three, and sometimes a whole swarm of Ichneumones. I have observed this Anomalous production in a great many sorts of Caterpillars, both hairy, and smooth; in several sorts of maggots, and which is most strange, in one Water insect. When there come many of these Ichneumon maggots out of the body of the same Caterpillar, they weave all their Theca's together into one bunch, which is sometimes round with web about it just like a bag of spiders Eggs; but I dare venture to answer M. Lister's 10th Quaere pag. 2172. of the Phil. Trans. negatively, that none of them feed upon spiders Eggs, but it is the similitude of those Theca's, conglobated together, to S s s the (2280) the Eggs of Spiders, that hath occasioned the conjecture. One of the green Caterpillars,common in the Heaths in the North,went so far on to her natural change,that she made her self up into a great brown Theca, almost of the shape of a bottle, which was filled with a swarm of Ichneumones. And I have observed in one or two other sorts, that from the very Aurelia it-self hath come an Ichneumon; which is very odd,that the Caterpillar, stung and impraegnated by the Ichneumons, should be yet so far unhurt, and unconcerned, as to make her self a Theca,and to be turned into an Aurelia. I have often seen a great Ichneumon dragging a Caterpillar in the high-way. This year Mr.Wray, in company with another ingenious neighbour, observed one haling a large green caterpillar much bigger than her self, which after she had drawn the length of a pearch, she laid down, and then takes out a little pellet of Earth, with which she had stopped the mouth of a small hole like a worm-hole; then she goes down into it, and staying a very little comes up again, and draws the eruca down with her into the hole, and there leaves her; and afterwards not only stops but fills up the Hole, sometimes carrying in little clods, and sometimes scraping dust with her feet, and throwing it backwards into the hole, going down after,her self, to ram it close. Once or twice she flew up into a Pine-tree, which grew just over her hole, perhaps to fetch Cement; When the hole was full and even with the superficies of the ground about it, she draws two Pine-tree-leaves, and lays them near the mouth of the hole,and flyes away. Not taking notice that she came any more in three or four days, we digged for the Caterpillar, and found it pretty deep. I put it into a box, expecting it would have produced an Ichneumon, but it dried away and nothing came of it. We lately observed a sort of Ichneumons,or rather vespae, which prey upon several sorts of flyes; when they fly with them, they hold them by the heads, and carry them under their bellies. These make holes a great depth in the ground, in which they lay their young, and feed them with the flies they catch,creeping backwards into the ground, and drawing the flies after them. I suspect they may at first lay their Eggs in the very body of a fly, (2281) fly, but one fly being not enough to bring the young one to its full growth, they feed it with more: Their Theca's are at last all covered over with the wings,legs, and other fragments of flies. 