A Relation from Dantzick, about an odd effect of Thunder and Lightning upon Wheat and Rye in the Granaries of that City; communicated in a Letter of June 24.1673.by M.Christ.Kirkby. S I R, YOU doubtless know, how much this City is famed for its numerous and convenient Granaries, it being the Repository of all sorts of grain, the fruitful Kingdom of Poland affords. In those Granaries are laid up chiefly Wheat and Rye in parcels, of 20, to 30 and 60 Lasts in one chamber, according to its largeness, and the dryness of the Corn; which they turn over 3, 4, 5, 6 times a week, as need requires to keep it sweet,and fit for shipping. Now it hapned, that about the latter end of March and April last we had much and violent Thunder and Lightning, which had this unhappy effect upon all the parcels of Wheat and Rye of the last years growth, that, though over-night they were dry, sweet, and fit for shipping, the next morning they had lost all these good qualities, and were become clammy and stinking, and consequently unfit to be ship't away for the present: So that the Owners, if they would not loose their grain, were forced to cause it to be turn'd over two or three times a day, and yet it required six weeks, if not longer, before it was recover'd. This is a thing, which often happens to Corn that hath not lain in the Granary a whole year, or not swet thoroughly in the straw before it be thrash'd out. An accident little noted, yet in my judgment worth the inquiring into. For, though the Alterations, caused by Thunder in Liquors, be taken notice of, and probable reasons given for them; yet I judge this somewhat more abstruse,and therefore more worth while to be consider'd. A (6093) A Relation of an un-common Cafe in Physick, communicated by the same from Dantzick in a Letter of March 18. 16 72/73. S I R, I Cannot omit acquainting you with an odd Accident,lately come to my knowledge. A Minister of about 50 years of age, being much indisposed, and often relapsing into a distemper accompanied with vomiting and purging, his Physitian, when I had the opportunity of speaking with him about it, told me, that he was persuaded, that his cure was obstructed by the Patient's being obliged to study: For when by the help of the medicines, prescribed to and used by him, he was brought to a considerable degree of recovery, his studying and preaching made him constantly relapse. This appearing to me some-what strange, that study and discoursing should cast a man into such violent distempers, and the reasons, given by the Doctor for it, not prevailing with me, he one day surprised me by relating what himself had seen, giving the said Minister a visit, which might confirm his conjecture concerning the Spirits being drawn away from the stomach, and leaving the digestive power languid; which vvas, That the Preacher falling into a relapse after a Sermon preached by him, and Vomits comming strongly upon him, he cast out, amongst other matter, several pieces, some as large as the end of a Mans finger, some less, of a substance, to the touch and eye perfectly resembling Tallow; four pieces vvhereof vveighed half an ounce. What may be inferred hence for the doctrine of Concoction, I must leave to others to consider. O o o o o o 2 Jo