C 1643XlV. Description2 of ran Instrumetat for atertainin{ the spergc . . G;razzities of Fluidsv By John Godfrey Schmeisser Com-mutlicated by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. P R S llead May o6, 1793. ALTHOUGH it be well known to chemists, as well as to experimental philosophers in general, that the ascertailaing the specific: gratities of bodies is a matter of great importance in various chemical experiments, as well as in tlae analysis and chemical investigation ofX different substances; yet we find that this precaution is too frequently neglected in the accounts gi^ren of tlle experiments by the authors themselves, and that the neglect of it llas sometimes occasioned the faiTure of these very experiments, when repeated by others. As this defect has, in a greatlneasure arisen from the want of an accurate and convenient apparatus7 a defect which I have formerly experienced myself, I have for some time past employed my thoughts in inventing acontrivance by which this difficlllty might be removed. I flatter myself that I have now succeeded; having contrived an instrumerlt, which I have found to answer every purpose for which it was interldedS to my great satisfa.ction v so that the specific grasrities of fluids may be deterluined in an easy and accurate marlner4 Every ingenzous man will easily convince hlmself in what -respect this instrument may differ fsroin or how fir it may be Mr SCHMEISSER'S DescripSon of an lxstruvzent, Ec. 16spreferable to, thosexwhich have been hitherto made public 5, and even to that lately invented and resommended by Mr. RAMSDEN . The whole apparatus is represented in Tab. XIX. fig. ; it consists of a flat-bottotned glass bottle (fig. 2) itl which is fitted, by grindingS a glass stopper having a thertnometer passing through it, (fig. 3.) The bore ofthis -stopper is conical, (fig. 4) and tlae thermometer has a glass collarS (fig. ,) whichzis groundinto the bore of the sto-pper,:so as to be perfectly tight. There is some difficulty both in making thc glass collar, and in fitting it into the stopper. If the thermometer tube and the collar be not made of-the same metal, the collar is very apt to fly off in grinding , for this reason I have somet-mes fixed theFtube in;to the stopper by m-eans of a thin piece of elastic gum, wourld very tight round the tube. This gumb by its elasticity, effiectually excludes air and liquids, and is, in the usual temperature of thve atmosphere, not dissolved by any liquor, except vitriolic aether, and not even by that, unless it is particularly prepared for the purpose. The cavity left at the upper part of the stol?per may be filled up with sealing wax, or any other kind of cement ; this will assist in fixing the tube, and as the liquors to be weighed do not come in contact with this part, if the bottle be carefully filled, there is no danger that the wax, or cement ulade use -of, hould -in any degree aff;ect the accuracy of the experiments. I-have made, at diffierent titnes, comparative experiments with this instrument, with a view to the further ascertaining its accuracy, and the diffierent improvementsrmade in itS andI can with much confidence assert, that I have never MDGCXCIII. Z 16 Mr. SCHMEISSER)S Description Qf an rBstruSeXt fbund either the least diffirence in the results, or any thting else -contrary tflomy expectations. The manner of usirlg this i-nstrument, and preparing it for experiments is as follows. ( 1. ) A. An accurate ca;bic inoli whicll is fastened, by means of a horse-hair, to a hydrestatic balance is to be suspendeEl in a vessel witll distilletl water, of the temperature of 6o degrees according to FAHRENSEIT; when tlle sum of the weight which the cubic inch thus losesS in the waterS will be equal to the weight of an equal quantity of water displaced by it. (2.) B. The instrument, free from moisture, is then to be put into the scateb of an accurate balancea and its wteigllt ascertained from wllich the sveight of the common air contained in the bottle must be deducted; when the remainder will indicate the absolute weight of the instrument. (3.) C. 'rhe bottle of the apparatus is then to be filled with distilled vfatera of the tetnperature of 60 degrees, and the stopper, with the thermometer fitted to the bottle, so tilat neither the smallest bubble of air may retnain in it, nor any of the fluid adhere to the outside of the stopper or bottle; after which the weight of the water is to be ascertained, and markecl upotl the bottle from wlaich, by calculation according to experiment A, the qualltity of vvater, contained in the bottle in cllbic inches measureS may be found. Having .tllus ascertailled tlle quantity of water of 60 degrees of temperature ^rhich tlle bottle contains the bottle may then be filled with any other fluid of the salne temperature, and its weight as° certained, according to experiment C, and conapared Witl that of distilled water. If; for example, the bottle be found 44 k .o ' -* -!_ _j-,, . : ^ t 11 L/ l a 1 ]an E EI ; F tSo 80 o l 60 = 50 = 4° ' \ I l '. |e-gAf -i-t Xf{/. 3.\ e A.2yZ. 2 .2X?z-70S. firrm. M])CCXCE. a^. . p. vQQ -t_f .iC L for ascertvining the speajic Gravities of Fluids7to contain 327 grains of distilled water, and 6S4 Of another fluid, the diffierence vvill be as l to 2; or 6ts4 divided by 327, will give 2 for the quotient. T1le specific gravity then of the fluid thus found, compared with that of distilled water, is properly expressed by the ratio 2,000: 1,000; which latter expression is taken for tlle standard. As it is a known fact that fluids exhibit different specific gravities at diSerent temperatures, it would havebeen llecessary for me to form a table, exllibiting the specific graxJities of fluids at diffierent temperatures, had I not, in order to avoid this inconvenience, hit upon a method of bringing the fluids, svhose specific gravities are to be investigated, to a certairl standard, viz. to 60 degrees, by setting the bottle with the fluid in a glass vessel with cold rater, and adding as much warm water as may be necessary to bring that fluid to this standard aiw do degrees. As the fluor atid will in some measure dissolve the glass, .it becomes necessary, when that acid is to be sveighed, to coat the inside of the bottle, by melting a little bees-wax in the bottle, and turning it, with the thermometer, in such a mansler that the inside, together with the lower part of the thermometer, rnay become totally covered when cooled; which coating may easily be removed by means of a Slittle oil of turpentine, or any other essential oilS all of wllich dissolve wax very readily.z g 