A Letter from Benj. Cooke, F. R. S. to Peter Collinson, F. R. S. giving an Account of the Fire-ball seen Dec. 11. 1741. Newport, in the Isle of Dear S I R, Whight, Jan. 25. 1741 2. I Did not see the Phaenomenon (the Fire-ball seen Dec. 11. 1741.) you mention *; but a Gentleman of my Acquaintance was * See in this Transaction p. 1. D on Read Jan. 28. 1741 2. [26] on an Hill about three Miles West of this Town, and had a very advantageous View of it. He says, that at that Time the Brightness of the Sun was a little obscured by the Interposition of some thin Clouds, when he saw it pass by to the Eastward, at about the Distance of something more than a Quarter of a Mile, and apparent Height of 30 Feet above the Level of the Place were he stood. Its Colour was that of a burning Coal; its Figure a Cone, whose Length might be eight Feet, and Diameter at the Base 18 Inches. From about its Apex, which was its hinder Part, issued several bright Streams sparkling with fiery Drops, to the Length of about four or five Feet, something after this manner ~ Its Motion was nearly parallel to the Plane of the Horizon, and its Direction (as near as we can find by comparing the Places it passed over) from South-west by South to North-east by North, without any Noise, Wind, or Motion of the Earth attending it. The Time of its Appearance did not happen to be taken Notice of with the desired Exactness; but by the best Observation we can make, must be about a Quarter before One o'Clock at Noon. There were a few others who saw it, to whom it appear'd different in Shape, according to the Point it was seen from; and perhaps its Shape might change as it became nearer consuming, and only its Head, in the Form of a Bell, remain at last. As this was the first Land it happen'd to make on this side the Chanel, I should be glad to know if any Accounts can be got of it Abroad, and what the Learned think of it; and shall think [27] think it a great Happiness, if this Relation may be o any Use or Satisfaction. I am, S I R, Yours most obliged and most affectionate, B. Cooke. 