Signor Campani's Answer: and Monsieur Auzout's Animadversions thereon. The other part of this French Tract, conteining Campani's Answer, and Mr. Auzout his Reflections thereon,begins with the pretended Shadows of the Ring upon Saturn,and of Saturn upon the Ring.Concerning which, the said Campani declareth, that he never believed them to be shadows,made by the Ring upon the Disk of Saturn,or by the body of Saturn upon the Ring,but the Rimms of these bodies, which being unequally Luminous, did shew these appearances. In which Explication, forasmuch as it represents, that the said Campani meant to note only the Inequality of the Light, which, he saith, his Glasses did discover, Mr. Auzout does so (76) so far acquiesce, that he only wishes, that his own Glasses would shew him those differences. Next to the Objection, made by Monsieur Auzout, against Signor Compani, touching the Proportion of the Length of the Ring to its breadth, Campani replyeth, that the Glasses of Monsieur Auzout,shew not all the particulars, that his do, and therefore are unfit for determining the true Figure and breadth of the apparent Ellipsis of the Ring. To which M. Auzout rejoyns, that he is displeased at his being destitute of better Glasses,but that it will be very hard for the future to convince Campani touching the Proportion of the Ring, seing that the breadth of the Ellipsis is always diminishing, although, if the declination of the Ring remains always the same, one can at alltimes know,which may have been its greatest breadth. But he assures,that the breadth of the Ring is not the half of its length, and that it doth not spread out so much beyond Saturn's Body,as he hath alleged. And withal desirs to know, what can be answered by Sig. Campani to M. Hugens,who being persuaded, that the Declination of the Ring is not above 23 deg. 30~ having seen the Ring to spread out above the Body of Saturn, concludes, in a Letter to M. Auzout, that the length of the Ring, is more than treble the Diameter of Saturn's body,which,according to Campani,is only as about 67 to 31. Which difference yet dos not appear to M. Auzout to be so great; but that M, Hugens perhaps will impute it to the Optical reason, which he (Auzout)hath alleged of the Advance of the light upon the obscure space; although he is ofOpinion,he should not have concluded sogreat a Length, if he had not seen the Breadth spread out more, than he hath done: for (saith he) if the Length of the Ring be to the body of Saturn, as 2 3/2 to 1. and the Inclination be 23 deg. 30~ the Ring will be just as large,as the body, without spreading outs but if the Ring be bigger,it will a little spread out; and if it were treble,it must needs spread out the half of its breadth, which hath not so appeared to him. Further, to M. Auzout's change of Opinion,and believing,that the Advance or Sally, seen by him in Jupiter, was the shadow of one of his Moons,Campani declares, that he would not have him guilty of that change: Whereupon M. Auzout wonders, why Campani then hath not marked it in his Figure; and would gladly (77) ly know,whether that Sally be more easie to discover, than the shadows of the Satellites, which Campani believs, Auzout hath not seen; and whether he be assured,that those obscure parts,which he there distinguishes, do not change: for if they should not change, than Jupiter would not turn about his Axis, which yet,he saith, it doth, according to the Observation made by Mr. Hook, May 9 1664. inserted in the first papers of these Transactions. The full Discovery of which particular also he makes to be a part of Cassini's and Campani's work, seeing that they so distinct. ly see the inequalities in the Belts, and see also sometimes other Spots besides the Shadows of the Satellites: where he exhorts all the Curious, that have the conveniency of observing, to endeavor the discovery of a matter of that importance, which would prove one of the greatest Analogies for the Earth's Motion. 