An account of some Experiments of injecting Liquors into the Veins of Animals, lately made in Italy by Signior Fracassati Professor of Anatomy at Pisa. 1. Having infused into the Jagular and Crural Vein of a Dog some Aqua fortis diluted, the Animal died presently; and being opened, all the bloud in the Vessels was fixed, but that in the guts not so well. It was also observed, that the great vessels were burst, perhaps by an effort of Nature; even as in the greatest part of those that die of an Apoplexy, the vessels of the Lungs are found broken. Upon which Experiment the Author maketh these Reflections: First, That an Apoplexy being often caused by a like Coagulation of the bloud (as hath been observed by the opening, made of sundry persons, who died of that distemper) it might be cured by a timely infusing some Dissolvent into the veins. Secondly, That it is likely, that that useful secret, by which Monsieur de Bills dissected Animals without any essusion of bloud, consists in some such infusion. 2. There was afterwards infused into another Dog some spirit of Vitriol, which had not so present an effect; for the Animal complained a great while, and foam'd like Epilepticks, and had its respiration very thick; and observing the beating of his breast, one might easily judge, the Dog suffered much: who dying at last, his bloud was found fixed in the veins, and grumous, resembling soot. 3. Then there was injected into a Dog some Oyl of Sulphur: But he died not of it, though this Infusion was several times tried upon him. And the (491) the wound being closed, and the Dog let go, he went into all the corners of the Room searching for meat, and having found some bones, he fell a gnawing of them with a strange avidity, as if this Liquor had caused in him a great appetite. 4. Another Dog, into whose veins some Oyl of Tartar was injected, did not escape so well: For he complained much, and was altogether swoln, and then died. Being opened,the Spectators were surprised to find his bloud not curdled, but on the contrary more thin and florid than or dinary; which seems to hint, that a too great fluidity of the bloud, as well as its Coagulation, may cause death. 