(489) Numb. 27. PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS. For the Months of July, August, and September. Munday, Septem. 1667. The Contents. An Advertisement concerning the Invention of the Transfusion of Bloud. An Account of some Experiments of Infusing Liquors into the Veins of Animals; As also of some new discoveries pretended to be made in tke Brain and the Tongue. An Experiment upon Bloud grown cold. Some Observa tions of Quicksilver found at the roots of Plants; and of Shells found upon in-land mountains; Other Observations made by a curious person in his Voyage from England to the Caribes, concerning the Rusting of Iron by the Sea-air; the Changes of Thames-water carried by sea; The Variety of the Colours of the Sea; The Burning of the same; the Night-winds in the Indies; The Relations of the Seasons of the year rectified; Observables about Tortoises; The condition of English bodies first coming to Jamaica; A way of preserving Ale as far as to the same Island. An Extract of a Letter concerning some Magnetical Experiments; and an Excellent Liquor made of Cyder-Apples and Mulberries. An Account of two or three Books; One, The HISTORY of the ROYAL SOCIETY: The other, DISQUISITIO DE FAETU FORMATO, The third, MUSCULI DESCRIPTIO GEOMETRICA. An Advertisement concerning the Invention of the Transfusion of Bloud. THE Author of these Papers returning now to his former Exercises, which by an extraordinary Accident he was necessitated to interrupt for some months last past, thought fit to comprise the Transactions of all the Months omitted in one Tract: In the very beginning of which he must inform the Reader, that if himself had published that Letter, which came abroad in July last, Concerning a now way of caring sundry diseases by Transfusion of Bloud, written to Monsieur de Montmor, &c. by J. Denis Prof. of Philosophy, &c. he should then have taken notice, as he doth now, of what C c c is (490) is affirmed in that Letter about the time and place of the Conception of that Transfusing design; and intimated to the Curious, that how long soever that Experiment may have been conceived in other parts (which is needless to contest) it is notorious, that it had its birth first of all in England; some Ingenious persons of the Royal Society having first started it there, several years ago, (as appears by their Journal) and that dextrous Anatomist, D. Lower, reduced it into practice, both by contriving a method for the Operation, and by successfully executing the same: wherein he was soon overtaken by several happy Trials of the skilful hand of D. Edmund King, and others, encouraged thereunto by the said Society; which being notified to the world Numb. 19.and 20. of these Transactions, PrintNovem. 19. and Decemb. 17. 1666; the Experiment was, soon after that time, heard of to have been tried in forein parts, without hearing any thing then ofits having been conceived ten years ago. 