a b y Fig.12. a Fig.11. Fig.2. Fig.4 Fig.3. Fig. 13. ~.11. Fig. 14. ~ ~ Some Anatomical Observations. By Mr. William Cheselden, Surgeon, F. R. S. FIG. 8. Tab. VI. shews the beginning of the Aorta, or great Artery, from the Heart of a Woman who died of a Dropsy. A. is the Aorta. B. B. two Chalkstones which possessed the Place of the Semilunar Valves. The left Ventricle of the Heart was dilated to twice its Natural Magnitude. We supposed that these Stones occasioned the Dropsy, by obstructing the Valves, and hindring a regular Distribution of the Blood. Tab VI. Fig. 8, &c. Fig. 9. shews a Bone taken from the Falx, or first Process of the Dura Mater, of a Man who died of violent Head-aches. Fig. 10. shews a Bone taken from the between the Ventricles of the Heart of a Man, who died Hydropic and Tabid. In this Body the whole Pericardium adher'd to the Heart. Fig. 11. shews the Optick Nerves; the right Nerve being wasted and discoloured: The Eyes both appeared to be very good. I had not an opportunity of inquiring into the Case of this Person; but I suppose it must have been a Gutta Serena. O o I opened (282) I opened another Eye of a Man who died of that Distemper; in which I found that part of the Nerves, which is within the Cranium, crushed flat by the anterior Lobes of the Brain, their Ventricles being full of Lymph. Fig. 12. shews three Spleens taken from one Body. Fig. 13. Two Spleens taken from a Man. Fig. 14. Two Spleens taken from a Woman. N. B. That in all these three Cases of the Spleens, each had proper Vessels, but the Arteries only are there express'd; and that the Spleens in each Body taken together were but equal in Magnitude to the one we uually meet with. A Heart, with the Vena Azygos inserted into the right Auricle; and the Descending Cava coming round the Basis of the Heart, above the Aorta and Pulmonary Vessels, to enter the Auricle at the lower part with the Ascending Cava. An Urcter double two Thirds of its length next the Kidneys, and distended by Stones passing through it. The Tubae Fallopianae impermeable, and without Alae Vespertilionis; the outer Ends being connected to the Tesies. XXXIX. An 