[ 15 ] III. An account of some experiments on the Torpedo. By Sir IJUMPHRY DAVY_, Bart. F.R.S. Read November 20, 1828. AMIDST the variety of researches which have been pursued respecting the different forms and modes of excitation and action of electricity, it is surprising to me that the electricity of living animals has not been more anl. object of attention, both on account of its physiological importance, and its general relation to the science of electrochemistry. * In reading an account of the experiments of WALSH, it is impossible not to be struck by some peculiarities of the electricity of the organ of the Torpedo and Gymnotus; such as its want of power to pass through air, and the slight effects of ignition produced by the strongest shocks: and though Mr. CAVENDISH, with his usual sagacity, compared its action to that of a battery weakly charged, when the electricity was large in quantity but low in intensity, yet the peculiarities which I have just mentioned. are not entirely in harmony with this view of the subject., I When VOLTA discovered his wonderful pile, he imagined he had made a perfect resemblance of the organ of the Gymnotus and Torpedo; and whoever has felt the shocks of the natural and artificial instruments, must have been convinced, as far as sensation is concerned, of their strict analogy. After the discovery of the chemical power of the Voltaic instrument, I was desirous of ascertaining if this property of electricity was possessed by the electrical organs of living animals; and being in 1814 and 1815 on the coast of the Mediterranean, I made use of the opportunities which offered themselves of making experiments on this subject. Having obtained in the Bay of Naples, in May 1815, two small Torpedos alive, I passed the shocks through the interrupted circuit made by silver wire through water, without being able to perceive the slightest decomposition of that fluid; and I repeated the same experiments at 16 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY'S ACCOUNT OF Mola di 'Gaeta, with an apparatus in which the smallest possible surface of silver was exposed, and in which good conductors, such as solutions of potassa and sulphuric acid, were made to connect the circuit; but with the same negative results. Having obtained a larger Torpedo at Rimini in June in the same year, I repeated the experiments, using all the precautions I could imagine, with like results; and at the same time I passed the shock through a very small circuit, which was completed by a quarter of an inch of extremely fine silver wire, drawn by the late Mr. CAVENDISH for using in a micrometer, and which was less than the T I dth of an inch in diameter; but no ignition of the wire took place. It appeared to me after these experiments, that the comparison of the organ of the Torpedo to an electrical battery weakly charged, and of which the charged surfaces were imperfect conductors, such as water, was more correct than that of the comparison to the pile: but on mentioning my researches to Signor VOLTA, with whom I passed some time at Milan that summer, he showed me another form of his instrument, which appeared to him to fulfill the conditions of the organs of the torpedo; a pile, of which the fluid substance was a very imperfect conductor, such as honey or a strong saccharine extract, which required a certain time to become charged, and which did not decompose water, though when charged it communicated weak shocks. The discovery of WORSTED of the effects of Voltaic electricity on the magnetic needle, made me desirous to ascertain if the electricity of living animals possessed this power; and after several vain attempts to procure living torpedos sufficiently strong and vigorous to give powerful shocks, I succeeded in October of this year, through the kind assistance of GEORGE DURING, Esq., His Majesty's Consul at Trieste, in obtaining two lively and recently caught Torpedos, one a foot long, the other smaller. I passed the shocks from the largest of these animals a number of times through the circuit of an extremely delicate magnetic electrometer, (of the same kind, but more sensible, than that I have described in my last paper on the electro-chemical phenomena, which the Royal Society has honoured with a place in their Transactions for 1826,) but without perceiving the slightest deviation of or effect on the needle; and I convinced myself that the circuit was perfect, by making my body several times a part of it, holding the silver spoon, by which the shock was taken, in one hand, SOME EXPERIMENTS ON THE TORPEDO. 17 wetted in salt 'and water, and keeping the wire connected with the electronieter in the other wet hand; the shocks which passed through the reduplications of the electrometer were sufficiently powerful to be felt in 'both elbows, and once even in the shoulders. These negative results may be explained by supposing that the motion of the electricity in the torpedinal organ is in no measurable time, and that a current of some continuance is necessary to produce the deviation of the magnetic needle; 'and I found that the' magnetic electrometer was equally insensible to the weak discharge of a Leyden jar as to that of the torpedinal organ; though whenever there was a continuous current from the smallest surfaces in Voltaic combinations of the weakest power, but in which some chemical action was going on, it was instantly and powerfully affected. Two series of zinc and silver, and paper moistened in salt and water, caused the permanent deviation of the needle several degrees, though the plates of zinc were only -tlh of an inch in diameter. It would be desireable to pursue these inquiries with the electricity of the Gymnotus, which is so much more powerful than that of the Torpedo: but if they are now to be reasoned upon, they seem to show a stronger analogy between common and animal electricity, than between voltaic and animal electricity: it is however I think more probable that animal electricity will be found of a distinctive and peculiar kind. Common electricity is excited upon non-conductors, and is readily carried off by conductors and imperfect conductors. Voltaic electricity is excited upon combinations of perfect and imperfect conductors, and is only transmitted by perfect conductors or imperfect conductors of the best kind. Magnetism, if it be a form of electricity, belongs only to perfect conductors; and, in its modifications, to a peculiar class of them. The animal electricity resides only in the imperfect conductors forming the organs of living animals, and its object in the ceconomy of nature is to act on living animals. Distinctions might be established in pursuing the various modifications or properties of electricity in these different forms; but it is scarcely possible to avoid being struck by another relation of this subject. The torpedinal organ depends for its powers upon the will of the animal. JOHN HIUNTER has shown MDCCCXXIX. D 18 SIR HUMPHRY DAVY'S EXPERIMENTS ON THE TORPEDO. how copiously it is furnished with nerves. In examining the columnar structure of the organ of the Torpedo, I have never been able to discover arrangements of different conductors similar to those in galvanic combinations, and it seems not improbable that the shock depends upon some property developed by the action of the nerves. To attempt to reason upon any phenomena of this kind as dependent upon a specific fluid, would be wholly vain. Little as we know of the nature of electrical action, we are still more ignorant of the nature of the functions of the nerves. There seems, however, a gleam of light worth pursuing in the peculiarities of animal electricity, its connection with so large a nervous system, its dependence upon the will of the animal, and the instantaneous nature of its transfer, which may lead when pursued by adequate inquirers to results important for physiology. The weak state of my health will, I fear, prevent me from following this subject with the attention it seems to deserve; and I communicate these imperfect trials to the Royal Society, in the hope that they may lead to more extensive and profound researches. October 24th, 1828. Lubiana, Illyria. 