(583) Advertisements on the Vinetum Britannicum mentioned in the last foregoing Tract, sent to the publisher by the Reverend Dr.J.Beal Rector of Yeovil in Somersetshire and one of His Majesties Chaplains. Sir, WIth much regard to the worthy Author of Vinetum Britannicum for his obligingness towards the publick, and for the further encouragement and improvement of our Countrey in Hortulans, I am willing to add some Lines to the mention you made of it. And this Treatise may do much good, for the greatest and richest part of England, in all our Champion Countries, and in the very Heart of England, where,through want of the aids here shew'd, they could do little or nothing for Pomona: And where an Apple cannot grow, Shrubs may prosper and bear great store of delicate and rich Wine, by the help of Sugar; which, when brought into common practice, may in a short time prove a great benefit to our Sugar-plantations. And 'tis a point of exceeding good Husbandry, when very shallow Lands may with small charges and little trouble be improved to bear more delicat and more wholsom Wines, than a French Vineyard; and also find good Employment for poor Widows and Children. And hence I beg leave to joyn it together; That Mr. J. B. in the later part of Epitome of Husbandry p. 26, 28. in his usual plainness, teaches an easy and frugal way to raise profitable Gardens of Esculent Plants on the barren Heaths; and this our learned Author demonstrates, how to raise rich Vinous liquors in any shallow Land, that will bear thorns or bryars: For, in such Lands most of our vinous Shrubs will prosper. And then any Gentleman by his own good example may lead on the multitude to drive away laziness, and poverty, and to enrich themselves, by turning our waste Grounds, Heaths,barren Lands and Downs(which contain a great part of England) into Gardens, and Modern Vineyards. And 'tis more honour to raise a Village or Township with competent relief, on Land that hath been hitherto deserted as hopeless, than to make depopulations on good Land, as some have done to their own damage. 1. The Ingenio's for Cider-mills, by the Author described, are made by John De la more, a Joyner in Petersfield in Hampshire, from 20. to 30. Sh. price a piece, according as they are single or double. Note, that the former Cider-mills, whether with stone-cases, or timber-cases, are in many places, at five-fold, in some at ten-fold, G g g g in (584) in some at twenty-fold above that price,and very scarce to be gotten. And ch 5. Sect. 2. p. 86. he saith; By this Ingenio have been ground very fine, sometimes 4, sometimes 5 bushels of Apples in an hour; and with no harder labour, than that two ordinary Labourers may (the one feeding, and the other grinding) hold it, by interchanging all the day. And of the larger Ingenio, which he there also describeth, he faith p. 87. By this Ingenio may two workmen, and one feeder, grind 20 bushels of Apples in an hour. And p. 81. he saith; This is a remedy against the inconveniences, troubles and expences in the several waies hitherto used: Among which inconveniences,he there nameth an unpleasant taste of Cider, acquired from the rinds, stems and kernels of the fruits, which in the former Mills were much bruised. Thus the Author; and this is remarkable for them that would have the best and purest Cider. The Cider-mill, or Cider-press invented by Mr. Hook, is described by worthy Mr. Evelyn in his second Edition of Pomona p. 66, 67. I guess, that the Cider-mill, so highly recommended by Mr. Carew Reynel in the True English Interest, ch. 30. and by him there attributed to the invention of Mr. John Worlidge of Petersfield, and said to make ten hogsheads a day, is the same with those here named by our Author. And, if in these any thing be yet wanting, doubtless it will be soon brought to perfection,being in such skilful hands. 2. The Author saith p. 186; that Mr. Rickets, Gardiner at Hogsdon, and Mr. R. Ball of Brainford, can furnish any planter with all or most of all the choicest or most excellent of all the Fruit-trees mentioned in his precedentCorollary. And in thatCorollary he mentions the best Fruits for liquors that I can yet hear of in England, at common sale. For Walnuts and Filberds,his choice is judicious: For I have observed a very great difference in the kinds; to which if he had been pleased to add (but indeed they were quite out of his road and method) the best Chestnuts, and the other excellent vegetables for diet and food,mentioned in the French Gardiner, he had made an advance (as well for food, as he did for liquids,) to a part of the importance of the Introduction to your Vol. 10, p.256; and of the Breviat on Sir Hugh Plat. ibid. n. 113, p. 304. and elsewhere by you fervently sollicited, in both respects, for restorative food and for refreshing liquors of the best kinds, & by modern improvements. This I suggest afresh (out of due place) because much of this Garden-food is yet wanting in many places for Noble Tables. Cherries, (585) Cherries, which do hurt eaten raw, and when the body is heated, may do much good,if made wine,or dried.I once sent you a Receipt, whichI received from Mr. Newburgh F.R.S. (who is curiously skilful in extracting rich liquors, and justly famous for his healing extract from Elderberries,)how to make the best wine of Cherries,and to make Plum-wine: which later, in his way, hath an austerenes, that must be allay'd, when 'tis in the glass, with a little Sugar; and not till drawn. 'Tis but from a wild black Plum, much bigger than a damsin, round and full of juice, of no harsh or unpleasant austerity; and (doubtless)they will yield a good Spirit for Brandy. And some kinds of those black and russet-tawny Plums may be dried in a kind of Solar stove,made in a Summer-wall for Prunes, if your Winter do not overtake you; or, if that season faileth, they may be dried in a Culinary oven. These Trees bear abundantly, and from a small parcel of ground, of no great depth. And Cherries and Plums make haste to regratify the Planter. I have tasted a most delicious Bonello (or winy liquor extracted by infusions, and compounded with sugar) for the Summer heat,made of the red Gardencurrants, by curious Ligons instructions. And a Noble Person, famous for a curious palat, did in my hearing extol a wine made of Goose-berries, beyond imagination. And I have often drank a Rasberry-wine, much different, and far more excellent than any of the mixtures, with Syrrup of Rasberries, or any of the ordinary infusions. By these, and other instances, which I now sorbear, I am perswaded, that many Secrets for the best way of obtaining rich Vinous liquors are not yet published, and the Author is truly worthy, to whom they should be communicated. And his merits will engage him for many more Impressions. In all this I do not mean to detract from the Author's way of making Currant-wine, Rasberrywine, or any other of his directions, but only to invite him in all to inquire the Methods which succeed best. And I am not without hope of prevailing with my worthy and friendly Neighbour Mr. Newburgh, to send you some of his Experiments in this kind, that the worthy Author may compare them for his next Impression. Sir Ken. Digby's Post-hume hath great varietie of Metheglins; but he takes not a sufficient compass for other vinous liquors. 3. Our Author saith Ch. 5. sect. 9, p. 134; Green and crude herbs do dull and flatten the spirits of liquors into which they are infused. G g g g 2 This (586) This I have proved often, on many kinds of Vegetables, that the Plant fully ripe, and full of seeds, which are much stronger than the green leaf, will taste, if of any bitter or odions kind, less odious and less bitter, than the young leaf, and green spray, in any infusion; and will also preserve the liquor longer, and make it more quick, brisk and lively. Centory seeding, and boiled throughly, is more tolerable, than the green leaf or blossom, though but slightly and less than half boiled. I know a family, which made great gain by infusing Wormwood full of ripe seed, dried,and of a year old: Thus they made some vessels very strong; and from thence attemper'd it in Ale or Beer, more acceptable to every palat: And I have heard very learned and experienced Physicians say, that this drink did generally heal the Dropsical, Scorbutical, and such whose diseases were caused by the coldness of the Liver, or want of digestion. The right and best Roman Wormwood gives an Aromatick flavour, very pleasing to some when young and green; more pleasing to others, when fully ripe and kindly dried. And the tops of red Sage in blossom, with the top-leaves kindly dried in the shade, and with maturity of time, did excel the famous Thea, the Chinois themselves being Judges; as you have recorded it Vol. 1. n. 14. p. 250; and again in the aforesaid Introduction Vol. 10. p. 256. Our Betony is very friendly for the Head and Brain, but not, in this respect, to be compared with red Sage. Add, that Fumitory in the blossom, well dried, is tolerable. Tansey, Mugwort and Southernwood, are les, odious when ripe and dried. Rinds of Oranges and Lemons, Citrons, and the like, dried; Roots of Enula Campana, Horseradishes, Burre, Potadoes, and the like, being cut into bits or slices, and a little withered, so moderately, that their Juyces be not too much wasted, are thus kindest for Infusions and Decoctions. And the tops of Lavender, when full of seeds, and dried, are used in Beer in Germany; and (as Mr. Hartlib told me) the Lilly of the Valley (which propagates it self by the weight of its seeding tops, descending into the earth,) is much esteem'd on the Elbe, where they have excellent Beer; and in Wine, in other parts of Germany, as a specifick remedy against Apoplectical dangers. He said, that in some places of England bushels of it may be mowed. I have not Mr. Ray now at hand to enquire it of him. For drinks in Spring and Summer, the first appearing Leaves (587) Leaves and Blossoms of more gustful Plants, by a short infusion, will suffice to good effect. Baume, the best delight for a Cordial: Burnet, most pleasing in French Wine, in delicate Frontiniac, and in green Cider, (as green as the Rhinish glasses were heretofore tinged) made of a greenfillet, as they called it, where they had other kinds of fillets. This which I commend (and tried it often) was a small, round, and green Apple full of black spots, of a pleasant odour and taste, and yielded a grateful stomach-wine, for the extream heat of the following Summer, well agreeing with Burnet. The Thymes, denominated from Mastic, Lemon, Musk, Yellow and White Thyme, do make a sprightful and speedy infusion in Angelico, against Contagions or Infections. The Holy Thistle, an expeller of bad blasts Clary, a strengthner of Nature. Sanicle, Comfrey, and the Consounds, healers and knitters of inward ruptures. Burrage, Buglosse, and Cichory, purifiers of the blood, calming and appeasing of spirits; and the Cowslips of Jerusalem, peculiar to mitigate Hectical fevers: Ale-cost or Cost-mary (as sweet as Myrtle) and Alehoof, or Ground-lvy, famous for dispatching the maturation of Ale and Beer, and as prompt in healing bruised wounds. The Primroses and Cowslips do now prove, what a spirit Blossoms do give; And of Blossoms the Clove-gelliflower is our chief. Acute and Learned Writers do maintain it, that a good choice of Diet, duly order'd, is the surest remedy against many of the most obstinate maladies, and the best preservative of firm health: And Liquids have a potent insinuation, by their nearer affinity to our Blood, Humors and Spirits; without straining Nature to the difficulty of Triture, or Colliquation of grosser food: Which the stoutly Carnivorous can best perform, to support their athletic strength. And Flora freely offers to the Intelligent all her copious Wardrobes at hand, with infinite variety for all palates, humors, and occasions. And those who are afraid of breeding the Stone, and other tormenting and mortiferous diseases, may calculate, how much more cheap, easie, and pleasant it is, to drink moderately and seasonably from a hogshead of the best Cider of their own, than to pay large fees for uncertain Medicines at an after-game; or to live alwaies at the rate of hautgouts. The same for the cleansing, sanative and restorative Diet of other Vegetables. 4. The (588) 4. The Author gives good directions for the making or ordering of Thea, ch.5. Sect.9. p.140, (which may instruct us for other like foliats,) and for making good Chocolate, ib. p. 139; which by art and mixtures may in time excel the famous Thea, being both Drink and Meat, when duly incrassated; healing, reviving, cherishing, and strengthening Nature. But racy Canary, and right Redstrake do disdain all mixtures: And in Barbados, they say as much for Madera. It were to be wished, that the Author ch. 5. Sect. 9. p. 140. had shewed the best way of making Sherbet (as he has done Chocolate and Thea; for Sherbet is an excellent beverage, in high esteem, and very proper for hot Countries; and especially for our Sugar-plantations; where they have Lemons, Limes, and all other materials and requisites: And also, where they have need to be minded, and supplied with more sober allayers of thirst, than their Flagrant kill devil. Thus far I have adventured, too boldly, but with sincere respects to the obliging Author, and to the business, with a touch on the by. I am, Sir, Your, &c. Eclipsis 