Queries Concerning Vegetation, especially the Motion of the Juyces of Vegetables, communicated by some Curious persons. 1. WHat Vegetables there are, which, having the wrong end of them set downward into the ground, will yet grow; as 'tis said Elders and Bryars will. 2. Whether the Branch of a Plant (as of a Vine or Bramble) being laid into the ground whil'st yet growing on the Tree, and there taking root, being cut off from the Tree whil'st so growing, will shoot out forward and backward? 3. In tapping, cutting or boring of any Tree, whether the Juyce, that vents at it, comes from above or below. 4. What part of the Juyce ascends or descends by the Bark? U u u u Whether (798) Whether what so ascends, ascends by the outward or inward part of it? 5. Whether, if a Zone of about two or three inches be cut off about the bottom of a branch, that branch will dye, or cast its leaves, or bleed out a Juyce from the upper or lower part of the bark so cut, or be apt to shoot out leaves or branches or knobs either above or below that baring? 6. What the use of the Pith is? Whether the Juyce ascend or descend by it? And what effects will follow, if the Trunk be bored to the pith, and a pegg droven hard into the hole of the pith both above and below? This to be tryed in the most pithy Plants? 7. Whether the Points or Ends of the Roots being cut off, the Roots will bleed as copiously, as Branches of the Trunks do, when bored? 8. What side of the Tree affords most sap? 9. Of what Age Trees afford most Sap? 10. VVhat are the best Seasons of the Year for taking the Sap of every kind of Tree in greatest quantity; and how long that season lasteth? 11. VVhether the Sap comes more copiously at one time of the day or night, than another? 12. Whether Trees afford any considerable Juyce in the Fall? 13. What effect, copiousness or scarcity of Rain hath upon the saps of Trees? 14. Whether or no the nature of a Tree may be changed by applications of Juyces or Liquors to the Roots or other parts? 15. Whether a Tree, whose Root is cover'd from Rain, and not water'd, if the branches of it be expos'd to the Air, will grow? 16. Whether inoculated Roots of a Tree will grow? 17. How short the Arms of the Roots of a Tree may be cut, and the Tree still grow? 18. How deep the several kinds of Trees are to be set in the ground to grow? 19. Whether (799) 19. Whether or no a Seed being planted either way, it will grow equally? 20. Whether the Stem of a Tree being set in the Earth, and the Root turn'd up into the Air, the Tree will grow? &c. These Queries are made publick, to the end that such as are curious and inquisitive in this noble Subject of Vegetation, may be the better furnisht with matter to exercise their researches and Observations upon, and be also excited to communicate what they either already know, or may yet learn of these matters, for further elucidation of the yet too obscure nature of Vegetation. And though perhaps there may be divers among these Queries, resolved already by the skilful, yet it seem'd not amiss, to propose them here again among the rest, to see what further confirmation or new addition might be given in by others concerning the particulars, they speak about. And to the same end shall be subjoyned here, some other Inquiries, imparted by a Person of Honour for the obtaining of ampler information, than hitherto hath been had therein. They are such as follow. Inquiries concerning the Use and Culture of the KitchinGarden and Winter-greens? Eate raw. Boyle. Roots Roste. Bake. First Shoot Pickle. Preserve. Conserve. Sprouts Candy. Dry whole. Stalks Dry to powder,serving for Spice. Make Wine. 1. What Buds. Make Cyde. to Make Perry. Flowers Make Alc and other various Drinks. Make Vinegar and Verjuyce. Fruits. Make thick Juyces like Honey. Make Concrete Juyces like Sugar. Make Bread. Kernels. Make Cakes, Puddings and Baked Meats. Make Broaths. Seeds. Give pleasant Colours to Meat and Drinks. What Herbs are fit to make Sallets, and how to be order'd for that purpose. U u u u 2 The (800) 2. The best season to sow every sort of Seed. 3. How often every sort of seed ought to be sowed for the constant use of the Kitchin-garden? 4. How the Earth is compounded and order'd for several kinds of Seeds and Plants? 5. What to be sow'd on the cold ground? 6. What to be sow'd on hot beds? 7. Several wayes of making hot beds, and their attendance? 8. How and what to be transplanted either into cold ground, or into new hot beds, and how order'd after? 9. What Observations of the Sun, Moon, and Weather, for sowing, planting and transplanting? 10. How to Water and shade Plants new planted, and Seeds sow'd? 11. What thrives best in the Sun? 12. What thrives best in the shade? 13. What, and how such as will not prosper in the Greenhouse, may be cover'd and preserv'd abroad? 14. The several names of Worms, Vermine and Insects, that are noxious to the Garden? 15. The Remedies. 16. The best forme and dimension of the Green-house; as also of what to build and cover it? 17. What to be hous'd in Winter? 18. How to order the Pots or Tubs before they are hous'd? 19. When and in what weather to open and close the Green-house? 20. What observations at the first setting abroad of the Winter-greens in the Spring? 21. How to prune and dung the Winter-greens? 22. What may be increas'd by the Root? 23. What increas'd by Layers? 24. What by slips or Cuttings? 25. What grows best of Seeds that shed and sow themselves? 26. What to be grafted and inoculated? 27. The (801) 27. The several wayes of grafting and inoculating? 28. How to alter the shape, smell, colour and taste of Vegetables by joyning different Roots together? 29. How and what may be chang'd by grafting, joyning or inoculating shoots or Buds on different Stocks or Cyons? 30. How to compound several Liquors to water and seed Vegetables, whereby they may be much alter'd? 31. Of what Roots, Stalks, Barks, Leaves, Flowers, Fruits, Seeds, Downs, may be made either Cups, Boxes, Baskets, Matts, Calicoes, Cloaths (as Netle-cloath) and the like? All which will be most useful for the life of Man from the Garden. 32. How to prune Vines? How many Joynts to leave? And of what age the Vine must be, that is cut away? 33. How to prune Standard-trees? 34. How to prune WallTrees, and with what to be best fastned? 35. The Places, from whence the best of the Vegetables, that are either Winter-greens, or fit for the Kitchin-garden,may be had; and the marks of their goodness? 36. How to discerne good Seeds from bad? 37. The times of gathering, and the wayes of preserving them, &c. 'Tis supposed, that the Names of the Vegetables, which make up the Kitchin-garden, and the Winter-greens; are sufficiently known: yet if there be any, that desire to have a good List of both sorts publisht, they may be gratify'd therein upon intimation given to the Publisher, who hath by him such a List, collected by the same Noble Person, who now proposeth the Queries for fuller information, than hath been given hitherto. 