[39] A Voyage of the Emperor of China into the Eastern Tartary, Anno. 1682. THe Emperour of China made a Voyage into the Eastern Tartary, in the beginning of this Year 1682, after having appeased (by the Death of three rebellious Kings) a Revolt, formed in some Provinces of the Empire: One of those revolted Princes, was strangled in the Province of which he had made himself Master: The second being brought to Pekin with the Principal Heads of his Faction, was cut in pieces in the sight of the whole Court: The most Considerable among the Mandarines, acting with their own hands in this sad execution, to revenge upon this Rebel the Death of their Parents, which he had caused to be cruelly murdered. The third which was the most considerable, (and indeed the chief of all the Revolt) had by a voluntary Death prevented his deserved Punishment, and so put an end to a War which had lasted for seven Years. The Peace having been setled, by the reestablishing in the Empire and all the Provinces, the Peaceable injoyment of their ancient Libertys: The Emperour departed the 23d. of March to go into the Province of Loaotum, the Country of his Ancestors, with a Designe of visiting their Sepulchers, and (after having honoured them with the usual Ceremonys) of prosecuting his journey into the Eastern Tartary: This journey was about 11 hundred miles, from Pekin to the end of it. The Emperour took with him his eldest Son, a young Prince of ten years old, which had already been declared Heir of the Empire: The three principal Queens went also in this journey, each in their guilded Chariot; the princiF pal [40] pal Kings also which compose this Empire, were accompanying with all the Grandees of the Court: And the most considerable Mandarines of all the Orders, who having all a very great Train of Attendants, and very numerous Equipage, made a Court about the Emperour of more than 70000 Persons. It was his Will that I should accompany him in this Journey, and that I should be always near him, to the end I might make in his Presence, the Observations, necessary for knowing the disposition of the Heavens, the elevation of the Pole, the magnetical Declinations of every Place, and for measuring with Mathematical Instruments, the height of the Mountains, and the distances of Places: He was well pleased also to be informed of what concerned Meteors, and many other Physical and Mathematical Matters. In so much, that he gave Order to an Officer to carry upon Horses such Instruments as I should have occasion to make use of, and recommended me to the Prince his Unckle, who is also his Father in Law, and the second Person of the State, he is called by a Chinese Name, which signifies an Associate of the Empire: He gave Charge to him to cause all things to be provided for me which were necessary for this Journey, which this Prince performed with a very particular goodness, causing me to lodge always in his own Tent, and to eat at his Table. The Emperour ordered that they should give me Horses of his own Stables, to the end I might the more easily change in riding, and some of those were of them he himself had ~, which is a mark of very extraordinary distinction. In this Journey we always went toward the North-east: From Pekin to the Province of Leao-tum, the way being about 300 miles is ~ equal: In the Province it self of Leaotum, it is about 400 miles, but much more unequal by reason of the Mountains; from the Frontier of this Province to the City of ~, or the River which the Tartars call ~, and the ~ ~, the way, (which is about 400 miles [41] miles) is very difficult, being crossed sometimes by Mountains extreamly steep, sometimes by Valleys of extraordinary depth, and through Desert Plains, wherein for two or three dayes march we met with nothing. The Mountaines of this Country are covered on the East side with great Oakes and old Forrests which have not been cut for some Ages. All the Country which is beyond the Province of Leaotum is exceeding desert where nothing is to be seen on all sides but Mountains and Vallys, and Denns of Bears, Tigres, and other Devouring beasts, you can scarce find a house, but only some poor Reed hutts, upon the sides of some brooks, and streames. All the Citys and Burrow-towns which I have seen in the Province of Leao-tum, and which are in very great numbers are intirely ruined: One can see nothing through the whole Country but old ruined Walls with Rubbell, Bricks and Stones. In the out skirts of these Citys there have been of late some few houses built, but without any order. Some of them made of Earth, others of the Rubbish of the old Buildings, the most part of them covered with straw or thatch, and but few with tyles. There is now not the least footsteps remaining of a great number of Towns and Villages which were here before the Warr. Because the petty King of the Tartars, who began to kindle this Warr having but a very small Army, caused the Inhabitants of those places to take Armes, which places he forthwith destroyed, that he might take from his Soldiers the hopes of ever returning again to their own Homes. The Capital City of Leao-tum, which is called Xin-Yam, is a City very fair and pretty intire, it has as yet the Remaines of an antient Palace. It is (for as much as I was able to remark by divers Observations) of the Latitude of 41 degrees 56 minuts, that is to say, two degrees above Pekin, tho' hitherto both the Europeans and the Chinese have given that City the Latitude of 41 degrees. There is in that City no declination of the Magnetick Needle, as I have found by many reiterated Observations. The City of F 2 Ula [42] Ula which was almost the very extream or our Journey lyes in 44 degrees and 20 minutes. The compass there declines from the South to the West one degree 40 minutes. But to Resume the prosecution of our Journey. From Pekin to this extream towards the East there is made a new way, by which the Emperour can commodiously march with his Horse, and the Queens in their Chariots. This way is about 10 foot broad, and as even and streight as could possibly be made; it is extended above 1000 miles, it has a little Raiseing on each side of about a foot high every where equal and perfectly parralel to one another; and this way was as neat especially when the weather was fair, as a floor where the husbandmen beat out their corne in the feild, there were also certaine persons along this way, who only took care to smooth and cleanse it. The Christians have no where so great care of sweeping their streets and publick places where the holy Sacrament is to pass in the Processions, as these Infidels have of ~ the wayes, where their Kings and their Queens are to pass every time they go out of their Palaces. There was made for the Return a way like the former, they plained or levelled the Mountains as far as they were able, they raised Bridges over the Rivers, and for ornamenting them, they had extended on each side of them a sort of matts upon which they had painted divers figures of animals, which had the same effect with Tapestry hangings, with which the streets are usually hung in Procession. The Emperor did very seldom make use of this way, being almost alwayes in hunting: And when he accompanied the queens he only Rod by the side of it, to the end that the great number of horse which were in the train that followed should not spoile it: He ordinaryly marched at the head of this kind of Army. The Queens followed Immediatly in their Chariots, with their train and their Equipage; they notwithstanding left some space between the King and themselves: After these marched the Kings, the Grandees of the [43] the Court and the Mandarians, every one according to his Rank, behind these an infinity of Attendants, and other people on horsback brought up the ~-guard. As there was not one City upon all this way, that could either lodge so great a Multitude, or furnish them with Provisions, and that the greatest part of their Journey was through a Country very little inhabited, so they were necessitated to carry along with them all things that were necessary for the Journey, and even Provisions of Victuals ~ three Moneths. Upon this Account there were sent before by the ways which were made on each side of the Emperours way, an Infinity of Waggons, Camels, Horses, and Mules for to carry the Baggage: Besides these the Emperour, the Kings and almost all the Grandees of the Court, had great numbers of Horses led, for the use of changing from time to time. I do not here reckon the droves of Beefs, Sheep, and other Cattel which they were obliged to have with them. And though this great Multitude of Men, Horses, and Droves passed by a way at a good distance from that of the Emperour, yet it raised so horrible a dust, that we always seemed to march in a cloud, and thence found it difficult to distinguish those that marched 15 or 20 paces from us. The March was so well regulated, that this Army incamped every night upon the sides of some River or Brook. 'T was for this reason that they caused the Tents and the Baggage necessary for this Incamping to set out very early in the Morning; and the Quarter-masters upon their first arrival, marked the ground most proper for the placing of the Emperors Tent, of the Queens, of the Kings, of the Grandees, of the Court, of the Mandarines, each according to his Dignity, and according to the Dignity he had in the Chinese Militia, which is divided into eight orders or into eight Standarts. In the space of three moneths we passed about 1000 miles, advancing towards the north east and about as many in [44] in our returne: In fine we arrived at Kam-Hay, which is a Fort situated between the South Sea and the Mountaines of the North: It is there where is the beginning of that so much cellebra ed Wall, and which ~ the Province of ~-~ from that of ~; from whence it is extended very farr on the side of the North over the tops of the highest Mountains. When we entred this Province, the Emperour, the Kings, and the Grandee, of the Court, quitted the great way of which we have hitherto spoken, to take that of the Mountains of the North, which are extended without interruption towards the North-East: There some dayes were passed in Hunting, which was performed in this manner. The Emperour chose 3000 men of his Life-guard, armed with Arrows and Javellings, and dispersed them some on this side some on that; so that they possest themselves of a great circute about the Mountains, which they invironed on all parts, which made a kind of Circle whose Diamiter was at least 3000 paces; then marching to draw nearer together with equal progresse and without quitting their range, what ever Obstacles they found in way (the Emperour having joyned with them several of the Captains, and of the Grandees of the Court, for the better keeping of their Order) they Reduced this great Circle to another much less, which had about 300 paces in the Diameter: So that all the Beasts which had been stayed within the first, found themselves taken in this last as in a Net: for that every one setting his feet upon the ground, they Locked themselves together so closely, that they left no meshing place for them to make their escape by. Then they Pursued them so Vigerously in this little space, that the poor creatures tired with the violence of their Coursing, came and fell down at the feet of their Chasers, and suffered themselves to be taken without trouble. I saw taken in this manner two or three hundred Hares in less then one day, without counting an Infinite of Wolves and Foxes. I have seen the same thing divers times done [45] done in that part of Tartary, which is on the other side of the Province of Leao-tum, where I remember to have seen, amongst others, more than 1000 Deer so pent up by these sort of ~, which came to cast themselves into the hands of the Hunters, having found no passage to save themselves by: they kill'd also Bears, Bores, and more than 60 Tigres, but these are taken by other meanes, and with other weapons. The Emperour ~ that I should be present at all these different Huntings, and he recommended to his Father in Law, in a most obliging manner the having a particular care of me, and of giving charge that I should not be exposed to any danger in the Hunting of the Tigers, and the other fierce Beasts; I was the only Person of all the Mandarines who was without Arms, and so near to the Emperor, though I made light of the Fatigue during the time we were on our Journey, I found my self so wearied every evening when I got to my Tent, that I was not able to support my self; and I should have dispensed with my self divers times from following the Emperor, if my friends had not councel'd me to the contrary, and if I had not fear'd that he would have taken it ill if he should have perceived it. After having passed about 400 miles in Hunting daily after this manner, we arrived at last at Xyn-Yam, the capital City of the Province, where we stayed four days. The Inhabitants of Coree came to present to the Emperor a Sea-calf which they had taken, the Emperor caused me to see it, and asked whether our European Books had spoken any thing of this Fish; I tould him we had a Book in our Library at Pekin which had explain'd the Nature of it, and dispatched presently a Currier to our Fathers at Pekin, who brought it me in a few days: The Emperor was pleased to say that what was sayd of this Fish in this Book, was agreable to this which he had seen, and caused it to be carried back [46] back again to Pekin to be ~ efully preserved. During the stay which we made in this City, the Emperor with the Queens went to visit the Sepulchers of his Ancestors, which are not very far distant, from whence ~ sent them back to Xyn-Yam, to continue his own Journey into the Eastern Tartary. After several days of marching and hunting, he arrived at Kirin, which is distant from Xyn-Yam 400 miles: This City is built along the great River Songoro, which ~ its source from the Mountain Cham-pe, distant 400 miles towards the South: This Mountain so famous in the East for having been the Antient Seat of our Tartars, is alwayes covered with Snow, from whence it had its name, because Cham-pe signifyes the white Mountaine. So soon as the Emperour saw it, he alighted from his Horse and fell on his knees on the bank of the River, and bowed himself three times to the ground to Salute it: After which he caused himself to be carried upon a Glorious Throne of Gold, and so made his entry into the City: All the people ran in a throng before him~ testifying by their Acclamations the Joy they had to see him. This Prince took great pleasure in those Testimonies of their Affection; and that he might give them some marks of his being very sensible of it, he was pleased to suffer himself to be seen by all, and forbid his Guards to hinder the people from approaching him, as they used to do at Pekin. They make in this City Barks of a very particular manner: The Inhabitants keep alwayes a great number of them ready fitted to Repulse the Muscovites, who come often into this River, to dispute the fishing of Pearls. The Emperor reposed himself two dayes, after which he Descended upon the River with some Lords, accompanied with more then 100 Boates, till he arrived at the City of Ula, which is the fairest of all this Country, and which at other times hath been the Seat of the Empire of the Tartars. A little below this City, which is at most about 32 miles from [47] from Kirin, the River is very full of a certain fish which resemble near enough the ~ of Europe: and 'twas principally for the taking the Divertisement of Fishing, that the Emperor went to Ula; but the Rains coming on so suddainly, swelled the River so much, that all their Nets were broken and carried away, by the great Flood of those land Waters: The Emperor notwithstanding stayed 5 or 6 dayes at Ula; but seeing the Rains were not at all discontinued, he was obliged to come back to Kirin, without having injoyed the Pleasure of Fishing: as we ascended the River, the Bark wherein I was with the Emperors Father in Law, was so indammaged by the agitation of the Waves, that we were constrained to go ashore, and mount a Chariot drawn by one Oxe, which carryed us very slowly to Kirin, the Rains not at all ceasing during our Journy. In the Evening when the Emperor was entertained upon all these Adventures, he said Laughing, the Fish have cheated us; at length, after we had stayed two dayes at Kirin, the Rains began to Deminish, and we re-took our way towards Leao-tum. I cannot here express the paines and Fatigues these had caused us to undergo, dureing the whole course of this Journy, by reason of the ways which the Rains had spoiled, and rendered almost Impassible: we went without staying over the Mountains and over the Vallies, and we could not pass but with extream Danger, the Brooks and Rivers which were swelled by the Floods and Inundations which ran from all parts: the Bridges were either overturned by the Violence of the Currents, or all covered by the great overflowing of the Waters. There were made in divers places great Collections of Water, and of Mudd, that it was almost impossible to be drawn out of it. The Horses, Cammels, and other Beasts of Burthen, which carried the Baggage could not advance, but remained sticking in the Mudd of the ~, or Dyed of tireing upon the Ways. The Men were not at all less incommoded, and all were enfeebled for want of Victuals, and of ReG fresh[48] freshments necessary for so great a Journey: Many of the Horsemen were obliged, either to lead their Horses on Foot, who were no longer able to carry them, or to rest in the middle of the Fields to suffer them to take Breath: And though the Quarter-masters and the Harbingers, spared not their Pains, nor for Wood (which they cut on all sides) to fill with Faggots all the bad Passages: Yet notwithstanding after the Horses and Chariots, which took the Van early in the morning had quite passed, it was Impossible to pass after them: The Emperor himself, with his Son, and all the great Lords of the Court, were obliged more than once, to foot it over the Mud and the Marshes, fearing to expose themselves to greater danger, if they should have passed them on Horseback. When they came to Bridges, or those other obstructions all the Army stayed: And as soon as the Emperor was passed, with some of the most considerable Persons, all the rest came together in a Throng, and every one striving to pass first, many were tumbled over into the Water: Others taking ways more about, found them more Dangerous, falling into Sloughs and Bogs, out of which they could not Recover themselves. In fine, there were so many Inconveniencies to be met with, in all the Ways of Eastern Tartary, that the old Officers who had followed the Court above 30 years, said they had never suffered so much in any Journy. It was on those Occasions, that the Emperor more than once, gave me the Marks of a Respect altogether particular: the first day that we put ourselves in the way for returning, we were stayed in the evening, by a Torrent so great and Rapid, that 'twas impossible to Ford it: The Emperor having by chance found a little Boat, which could not hold above 4 Persons at most, passed first with his Sons, and some of the Principal Kings followed: All the other Princes, Lords, and Mandarines, which the rest of the Army attended, (in the mean while) with Impatience the return of the Boate, to carry them to the other side of the Torrent, because the night approch[49] proched, and the Tents had long before passed: But the Emperor being come back to us in such another Boat as the former, demanded aloud where I was; and his Father in Law having presented me to him, he added, let him come in and Cross over with us: So we were the only Persons that passed with the Emperor; and all the rest stayed on the Bank, where they must pass the night under the open Heaven: The same thing hapned the next day almost in the same manner. The Emperor at Noon meeting with a like Rapid and swelled Torrent, gave order that the Boats should be made use of for Transporting the Tents, Packs, and other Baggage till the Evening, then willed that I should pass alone with him and some few of his Attendants, having left on the other side all the Great Lords, who were necessitated to pass the Night there: The Emperors Father in Law himself, having asked if he should not pass with me, since I lodged in his Tent and eat at his Table; this Prince answered him, that he should stay, and he himself would take Order to give me what was necessary. After we had past, the Emperor sitting on the Bank-side, made me sit by him, with the two Sons of the two Petty Western Kings, and the first Colao of Tartary, whome he distinguished on all Occations. As the Night was fair, and the Heavens very cleer; he willed me to Name in the Chinese and European Languages, all the Constellations that then appeared above the Horizon, and he himself first named all those he already knew; then unfolding a small Map of the Heavens, which I had some years since presented him, he put himself upon inquiring the Hour of the Night, by the Stars in the Meridian: Pleasing himself to shew to all, the Knowledg he had acquired in these Sciences. All the Marks of his Favours which he so often gave me, even to the sending me to eat from his own Table; these marks I say were so Publick, and so Extraordinary; that the two Unckles of the Emperor, who bore the Titles of Associates of the Empire, being on their return to G 2 Pekin, [50] Pekin, said that when the Emperor had some Regret or appeared somewhat Sad, he would Resume his ordinary Gaiietie upon the sight of me. I arrived at Pekin in perfect Health the 9th day of June very late, though divers were detained in the way by Distempers, or were returned from their Journy, ~ and Lamed. I say nothing of what we did for Religion in this Journy, having Reserved that for a particular Relation, by which it will appear, that by the Grace of our Lord, the Favours we received at the Court of China, produced considerable Fruits for the Church, and did not take away the Cross from the Missionaries. I shall here add the Tartarean Names, and the distance of every Place through which we passed in the Eastern Tartary, from the Capital of the Province of Leao-tum even to Kirin, according to the order of Days which we spent in this Progress. A Topographick Chart may be made and inserted into the Map of the Province of Leao-tum, to be found in the Atlas of Father Martin Martinius, by changing only the Latitudes according to the hights of the Pole, which we have before Specified. I shall add one thing more which I Understood from the Inhabitants of Ula, to wit that Nincrita (which is a Place much Renowned in those Parts) is distant from Ula 700 Chinese Stadia (each of which is 360 Geometrical Paces) And that Imbarking at Nincrita upon the great River Helum, into which the Songoro, and some other more considerable Rivers are discharged, and following the course of the River, which runs towards the North-East, or somewhat more to the North, they arrive in 40 days Journy at the Eastern Sea, which is (as I beleive) the Streight of Anien: I was told this by the General of the Militia, which is at Kirin; and who had performed this Voyage himself. The [51] The Distances of the Places through which we passed in the Eastern Tartary. THe first Day we passed from Xyn-Yam, the Capital of the Province of Leao-tum, and we arrived at Seac-Lysto, so the place is called in the Chinese Language. 95. stadia. The 2d. day we arrived at Cha-cay Angha. 85. stadia. The 3d. day at another Torrent of the -70. stadia. same Name. The 4th. at Kiaghuchen. 50. stadia. The 5th. at Feyteri. 80. stadia. The 6th. at the Torrent of Seipery. 60. stadia. The 7th. at the Torrent of Ciam. 60. stadia. The 8th. at Courou. 50. stadia. The 9th. at the Burrow of Sape. 40. stadia. The 10th. at Quaranny Pyra. 40. stadia. The 11th. at Elten eme Ambayaga. 70. stadia. The 12th. at ypatan. 58. stadia. The 13th. at Suayen ny Pyra. 60. stadia. The 14th. at Ylmen. 70. stadia. The 15th. at Seuten. 70. stadia. The 16th. at the City of Kirin. 70. stadia. 1028. All this Course being 1028 Chinese Stadia, contains 369 miles (each) of 1000 Geometrical Paces; the Chinese Stadium containing as I mentioned before 360 Geometrical Paces. A 