XXXV. A Relation of a Scirrhous Tumour, included in a Cystis, &c. By Mr. Richard Russell, Surgeon, at Lewes in Sussex; and communicated by Mr William Cheselden, Surgeon, F. R. S. A U G U S T the 18th, 1713. I was sent for to Mrs. Smith, who had been reduc'd very low by a Fever, which from her Cough, sharp Pain under her Breast, and other Symptoms was judg'd Pleuritick. But upon having a Discharge from her painful Breast, of a thin Gleet, all Symptoms vanished. When I saw her first, the Liquor discharg'd by a small Pin-hole near the Papilla, was little more than would have wet a Handkerchief four times double. Examining of the Breast, I found a large Tumour, that lay deep, yielding to my Fingers, and pasting like Dough. I (277) I search'd the Abcess with my Probe, and twisted out with it a Matter like Saw-dust, or Brann, mix'd with Hair. Upon laying open the Breast, I separated a Cystick Tumour, which weigh'd eight Ounces, and contain'd a solid Matter like the above-mention'd, mix'd with a Body like Hair. Upon Enquiring into the manner of its coming, she told me, that eight and thirty Year ago, she receiv'd a Bruise in that Breast by a Fall from a Horse, which was attended with great Pain and Fluxion; insomuch, that the Veins of her Breast appear'd Varicous and Turgid, as in a Cancer; but her Pain ceasing, they sunk, and left an Indolent Tumour in her Breast, suppos'd by her Surgeon to be a true Scirrhus: Since which <inferred>time</inferred> it hath always continued nearly in the same State, without pain, encreasing very little in Magnitude, but obstructed in such a manner that she could not nurse her Child with that Breast. The Tunic was pretty thick, nourished with very small Vessels, but had form'd a Scirrhus of the Glands it adher'd to, by keeping up a Distention of Parts, till there was a Cohesion of their Membranes and Vessels. I make no doubt, but this was a Body of diseas'd Glands, which had suffer'd a Colliquation by some extravasated Fluid, and that the Membrane of the Tumour was their Proper Tunic. After this manner all our Tunicated Tumours seem to be form'd; for when an Obstruction proceeds to Extravasation, there is a Liquor pour'd out which consists of such Particles, that by degrees makes a Colliquation of the Glandulous Flesh, which is not very sensible of Pain; and by degrees the Capsula becomes distended with a Matter of a very different Consistence, which (278) which gives the Name to the Tumor, either Steatoma, Atheroma, or Meliceris. Thus pour Oyl of Olive on Spirit of Nitre, and your Oyl first becomes a little hardned, then of the Colour and Consistence of Marrow, till by degrees it is hardned into a white Fat, resembling that of Animals. The Possibility of this Colliquation and Digestion, we may the easier be induc'd to believe, if we consider how often we find the Glands of the Viscera petrified, without any degree of Pain, or the Membrane in any Measure destroy'd: The Truth of which, every one that hath been conversant with the Dissection of Morbid Bodies, must have seen. 