Observations Concerning Cochineel, accompanied with some suggestions for finding out and preparing such like substances out of other Vegetables. IT is generally believed, that the Cochineel comes out of a fruit called the Prickle-pear, bearing a leafe of a slimy nature, and a fruit bloud-red and full of Seeds, which give a Dye almost like to Brasiletto wood, that will perish in a few dayes by the Fire: But the Insect engendred of this fruit or leaves, gives a permanent Tincture, as is generally known. There grows a Berry (by report) both in the Bermudas and New-England, call'd the Summer-Island-Redweed, which Berry is as red as the Prickle-Peare, giving much the like tincture; out of which Berry come out first Worms, which afterward turn into Flyes somewhat bigger then the Cochineel-Flye, feeding on the same Berry: In which we read, there hath been found a colour no whit inferior to that of the Cochineel-Flye, and as to Medicinal vertue much exceeding it. 'Tis hereupon offer'd to consideration and tryal, 1. Whether this Bermuda-Berry might not grow in England? 2 VVhether out of the Berry of Brasiletto-wood the like insect might not be obtained in respect of colour or tincture? 3. VVhether a fading colour, yielded by certain Vegetables, might not be fixed by causing such a Fermentation in the Concrete, as may engender Insects giving the tincture of its original, which will hold in Grain? For the obtaining of the last we find the following directions, VVhereas Vegetables of Tincture are either Herbs, or VVoods, or Berries and other Fruits; to breed Insects out of Herbes, dry them, (for so they yield the best tincture;) otherwise stamp them, and let them dry, till they will suffer no more juyce to run from them, (this in the Sun or in a proportionable heat:) or if (797) if dryed, infuse them with water in a heat for 24 houres; then vapour away the water till the dissolution be as thick as a Syrup (but for this use strain them not from their feces;) take this Masse, and put it into an Earthen or Woodden-Vessel cover'd with some Straw or something else of that nature, that it lye not too close, and so proportion the quantity to the Vessel, that the Air may come about and into the Masse (yet not too much.) Then set this vessel in a ditch or pit made in the Earth in a shady place, and put about it some wet leaves or some such putrifying rubbish, and over it a board, and on that some straw or the like; and it will produce first a shelly husky Worm, and then a Fly of the Tincture of the Concrete, but durable and somewhat more advanc'd. And as for Berryes, stamp and boyle them, evaporating them to the consistence of a Robe, and then use them as the former. Lastly, for Woods, infuse them in water, being first pulveriz'd, and boyle out their tincture, and then evaporate also the Water to such a thickness, as the other, and handle them in the like way. The Flyes will play about the sides of the Vessel and the surface of the matter; which taken are kill'd in a warm pan or stove, and so dryed and kept. 