(529) II. Part of a Letter from Mr. Nicolas Witsen, Burgermaster of Amsterdam; giving a farther Relation of the Horrible burning of some Mountains of the Molucco Islands. AT present nothing offers it self, except a farther Relation of the horrible burning of some Mountains of the Molucco Islands: whereof I ~ gave some account to a very Eminent Member of the Royal Society. Wherefore, I make bold to send you the true Translation of several Letters sent to me from those Parts by the last Ships. To which I add, That the Mountain Kemas or Brothers, in the Territory of Manado, is blown up with a most dreadful noise, as of the hardest Thunder, which caused Darkness and Earthquake, with very heavy Blows, and other dismal Signes at Ternata: which Noise hath also been heard at Amboyna. The Mountain of Brimstone upon Amboyna, called Wawany, does also burn dreadfully. From all which it seemeth evident that in those Parts and Seas, there are Subterraneous Fires, having a mutual Communication one with another: Which God knoweth but may some time cause the sudden subversion of them, and consequently a notable Change or Alteration of the Worlds Globe. Those who have seen these things with their own Eyes, and are arrived from thence last Year have told me, that when a hole is made in the Ground 10 or 12 Foot deep, the Ground is warm. And so after hearty Salutation, I remain, Tours, &c. K k k k Copy (530) Copy of a Letter Witten in the Molucco Islands, in the Year 1695, to the Burgermaster Witsen. TO give you some account of things happened at Banda; I must tell you, it hath pleased God to let us see his wonderful Works, and Mighty Hand, upon the 20th of November of the last Year, which hath never been seen by any Person now living. On the about the Evening was seen a very thick Smoak about the top of the Mount Gounong Apy, which was much augmented on the 21 and 22, and that Night the Flame broak out: On the 23, 24, and some following Days, the Fire was continually increasing on the West side, and with such blows, as if the greatest Pieces of Canon had been discharged: So that we were fearing that the whole Mountain should have been cast upon us. A day of Humiliation and Prayer was Proclaimed by the Government against the Seventh throughout all Banda. Sometimes the Mount brought forth such a noise, as the greatest Storms can do about the Rigging of a Ship, or a Building on Shoar, and afterward followed the Stones on the West side as far as the Sea, which was a horrible Spectacle. Fishermen have related unto me, that so many Stones have been cast out already, that the place where they used to fish with Lines at 40 Fathom water is now dry, and the Fire cometh forth out of the Water so vehemently, that it is dreadful to see, and the Water is so hot that we cannot come near it. And now the Mountain burneth most towards the side of the Loutoir. The Trees on the East and West side are altogether spoil'd, and the West side is covered with Stones God knoweth how high. The stink of Brimstone during the Westerly Monsoon, is (531) is so intollerable, that one could scarce endure it in the Streets of Neira. The Noise continueth yet. How God Almighty will be pleased to dispose of us, is known to him alone. It causeth a great Sickness on Neira: The Water which raineth down, is by reason of the Brimstone and Saltpeter become sower and without a natural tast. The Gardens which were on the Gounong Apy, and formerly brought forth great store of Fruits for Mans livelihood are partly covered with Stones, and partly Desert. The greatest fear is because it is consumed inwardly towards the old hole, which was blown up in the Year 1615, and because the Fire seemeth to take its course towards the South-West, and that it being quite hollow there will tumble inwardly, or be subverted. I have been as near the Fire as I could approach, but the excessive Noise, and casting of Stones made me draw back speedily. Copy of a Letter Written by another Person from Banda, to the same Burgermaster. THE Mount Gounong Apy keeps us still in a continual fear, bringing forth a Noise and Stones, and we see nothing but Fire and Flame, which is continually increasing. It casteth out Stones round about the Mountain, and the Fire ascendeth so high, that we can see it above the high Land at Denter, as it happened the sixth of this Month that the Stone and the Flame went up above the high Land, which was horrible to see. K k k k 2 Extract (532) Extract of another letter from the same place to the same Man. WE are in fear because of the Mount Gounong Apy, which burning continually doth cast out so great a quantity of Fire and Ashes, that the Trees of the Country Neira, and part of those on the high Country of Loutoir, is so much covered with Ashes, that not one good Fruit is to be expected from them. Copy of a Letter to the Burgermaster Witsen, from the Molucco Islands the 11th of June, 1695. IT is almost impossible for me to give a particular account of the present state of Banda; for at Neira there is neither Leas nor Herb. The Ground is covered with Stones and Ashes; the Trees look just as those of our Native Country in Winter; one half of the high Country is likewise in a sad condition, many Trees be wholly or partly dead, and the rest lingring. If we are to have such another West Monsoon, all will perish to which that Wind can reach. Not one House at Neira is demolished, several are quite without damage to the Ground by the weight of the Dust and Ashes; and if all hands had not been continually at work to take and carry it off, not one House had been left standing in Neira. One of my Houses is down. Those of Denter, Weyer, Celam, and the inward Coast, as far as Waling, have likewise a sad experience of this Calamity. We are sometimes visited with Earthquakes; and especially on the 11th of May, about 2 a Clock in the Afternoon, we had two hard motions: Finally Banda meets with many Crosses. III. An 