441 ] P R E Is E NT S RECEIVED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, Fromn November 1820 to yuly 1821, WITH THE NAMES OF THE DONORS. 187.0. F R PRESE N TS. DONOKRS Nov. 9. Karamania, or a brief Description of the South Capt. Francis Beaufort. Coast of Asia Minor, and of the Remains of Antiquity, with Plans, Views, &c. Collected during a Survey of that Coast under the orders of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, in 181i and 1812, by Francis Beaufort, Esq. London, X 8 i 8. so Survey of the Coast of Karamania, 4 sheets. Memoir of a Survey of the Coast of Karamania. Librorum Impressorum. qui in Muspeo BritanThe Trulsteees of the nico asservantur Catalogus. Vol. VII. LonBritish Museum. don. A Chemical and Medical Report of the properties Dr. Charles Scudamore. of the Mineral Waters of Buxton, &c. By Charles Scudamore, M. D. London, 1820. 80 Transactions of the Geological Society, Vol. V. The Geological Society. Part Ist. London, X8I9. The Life of Thomas Egerton, Lord Chancellor of The Horn. and Rev. England. 49 Francis Henry Egerton. Principles of Military Surgery, by John Hennen, John Hennen, M. D. M. D., &c. znd edition. Edinburgh, I820. 8S Thbe Characters of the Classes, Orders, Genera, Frederic Mohs, Esq. and Species, or the Characteristic of the Natural History System of Mineralogy, by Frederic Mohs. Edinburgh, 18zo. so Medical Transactions, published by the College The Royal College of of Physicians, Vol. VI. London, 1820. 8S Physicians. Medico-Chirurgical Transactionis, Vel. XI. Part The Medical and Chirur.. Ist. London 1820. 80 gical Society of London. [ 440 ] 1820c PRESENTS. DONORS. Principes d'Astronomie, et Amours de deux Amans, M. Roucher-Deratte. par C. Roucher-Deratte. Montpellier, 18o4. 80 Traite sur la Luminologie, par M. Roucher-Deratte. Montpellier, x809g. 8 The Nautical Almanack and Astronomical Ephe. 'The Commissioners of meris, for the year I8z . London, 1820. 80 Longitude. L'Attraction d6truite par le Mouvement PrimorLe Comte de Zuylen de dial, par Le Comte de Zuylen de Nyevelt. BrusNyevelt. sells, I8I9. 120 Annales des Mines, redigees par le Conseil Ge'n& Le Conseil des Mines. ral des Mines. Vol. IV. Part 4, and Vol. V. Part Ist and zd. Paris. 80Introductory Lect ire to a Courrse of Botanical LecJames Robinson Scott, tures, Excursions, and Demonstrations, by Esq. James Robinson Scott. Edinburgh, 1820. 8@ Me~moires de lAcade'mie Royale des Sciences, de The Royal Institute of 1'Institut de France) Annene i88. Tome III. France. Paris, I 8 70. 40 Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar fbr The Royal Academy of Ar 1819. Stockholm, 18I9. 80 Sciences ofStockholm. Ephemeris of the Distances of the four Planets Prof. H. C. Schumackcr. Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, from the Moon's Centre, or I 822; to which are annexed, Tables for finding the Latitude by the Polar Star, for i82i and 1822, by H. C. Schumacker. Copenhagen, i8zo. 40 HUlfstafeln. zu Zeit und Breitenbestemmungen herausgegeben, von H. C. Schumackcr. Copenhagen, I820. 1 zo An Analysis of the Leamington Spa in WarwickDr. George Hlume Weashire, by Geo. Hume Weatherhead, M. D. Lontherhead. don, I82o. 80 Dissertatio Physico-Mathematica Inauguralis, de Prof. Moll. Celeritate Soni per Fluida Elastica propagati, Auctore Richard Van Rees. Utrecht, 1819. * * ~~~~40 Tentamina Mathematica de Cubatura Segmenti Ellipsoidis, Auctoribus Rb. van Tuyl van Serooskerken et R. Van Rees. Utrecht, x819. 40 Richardi Van Rees Disquisitio de Decompositione Acidi Carbonici in Vegetatione. Utrecht, i8x8. 80 Discours sur les Medailles d'Auguste et de Tibere M. F. Artaud. au Revers de l'Autel de Lyon, par F. Artaud. Lyons, 1820. 8o Meteorological Observations made in the Vici. W. Gwynn, Es'q. nity of Baltimore, during the years 1817 and i i8, by Lewis Brantz. Baltimore, 18i8 and I819. 40 C 4413 1820. PRESEN TS. DONORS. A Chinese Chronicle, by Abdalla of Beyza, transRev. Stephen Wes ton. lated from the Persian, with Notes and Explanations, by S. Weston, B. D. London, i 820. 80 Beytrage zur Geschichte und Kenntniss meteori. M. C. Von. Schreibers. scher Stein-und Metall-messen und der Erscheinungen welche deren Niederfallen zu be. geiten flegen, von D. Carl. von Schreibers. Vienna, 18zo. FO A Chemical and Medical Report of the Properties Dr. Charles. Scidamore. of Mineral Waters, by Charles Scudamore, M. D. London, 18zo. 8" Conclusions d'un Memoire sur l'Action mutuelle M. Ampere. de deux Courans electriques sur celle qui existe entre un Courant electrique et un Aimant run sur l'autre, par M. Ampere. i 82o. 120 A Treatise on Heat, Flame, and Combustion, by Lieut. Col. Pasley.. T. H. Pasley. London, i8zo. 8 Almanak ten Dienste der Zeelieden voor het Jaar Professor Moll. 82zi, op last van Zijne Majesteit den Konig der Nederlanden & Amsterdam, 18 19. 8" The Second Part of a Letter to the Parisians and The Hon. and Rev. the French Nation, upon Inland Navigation, by Francis Henry Egerthe Hon. and Rev. Francis Henry Egerton, &c. 8" ton. Supplementary Table to that usually given of Lieut. Gen. Sir Thomas Equations to Equal Altitudes. Brisbane, Bart. Table to determine accurately the Time of High Water at any given Port, dependent on the accelerated or retarded Motion of the Moon on the Tides, on passing ,the given Meridian in her different Parallaxes. The Ordnance Survey of Great Britain, No. 9. Capt. Thomas Colby. 4 Sheets. The Statutes of the Realm, printed by Command The Commissioners of of H. M. King George Ill. in pursuance of an Public Records. Address of the House of Commons of Great Britain, from Originlal Records and Authentic Manuscripts, Vol. VIII. 180zo. F" A Lithographic Print of the Upper Jaw of a Fossil H. T. Dela Beche, Esq. Crocodile from Havre, in the Museum of the Academy of Geneva, from a Drawing by H. T. Dela Beche, Esq. Nov. I6. A Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, and their Benjamin Travers, Esq. Treatment, by Benjamin Travers, London, 18zo. 8" 23. Flora Batava, No. 57. H. M. The King of the Netherlands. An Historical and Practical Treatise on the Inter. Dr. Augustus Bozzi nal Use of the Hydro-Cyanic, Prussic Acid, Granville. in Pulmonary Consumption, &c. by A. B. Granville, M. D. zd. Edition. London, x8zo. MDCCCXXI. 3 L :441 i I 32o. PRESENTS. DONORS* Dec. 7. The Climate of London, deduced from Meteorollo Lo ke Howard, Esq. gical Observations, made at different Places in the Neighbourhood of the Metropolis, by Luke -Howard. London, is 8I. 2 vol. so Surles Experiences Electro-Magnetiques de MM. M. Hachette. CEersted et Ampe're, par M. Hachette. 4 Introductory Lecture read in the Theatre of the B. C. Brodie, Esq. Royal College of Surgeons, on the 8th of May, i8zo,by B. C. Brodie. London, i82o. 80 A Memoir on the Voyage of D'Entrecasteaux in James Burney, Esq. Search of La Perouse, by James Burney, Esq. Lonldon, t82o. go Dec. 14. Memoirs Historical and Illustrative -of the Bota. The Master, Warden, nic Garden at Chelsea, belonging to the Sociand Society of Apoety of Apothecaries of London, 1820, 8? thecaries. 2i. Discours stir Nicolas Kopernick par Jean SniaDr. -Slavinski. decki. Paris, 18zo. 8 Precis des Travaux de la Societe Royale des Dr. Lewis Valentin. Sciences, Lettres, Arts et Agriculture de Nancy pendant les Annees, i8I6-i8.18. Nancy, I8I 9. 80, Memorie sopra Alcuini Pezzi Morbosi conservati Prof., Frances Luigi Fannel Gabialerto patologico dell' I. R. Universita' zago., di Padova di Francesco Luigi Fanzago. Parte la. Padova, I820. Fo Sulla Pellagria, Memorie di Francesco Luigi Fanzago. Padova, s8 i. 80Institutiones Pathologicm Auctore Francisco Aloyisio Fanzago. Patavii, I83. 2 Vol. 8o 1821. J7an. I I. Commentaire de S. J. Frontin sur les Aqueducs de M. J. Rondelet. Rome, traduit avec le texte en regard, par J. Rondelet. Paris, 18zo. 40 A Description of the Collection of Ancient MarThe Trustees of the Bribles in the British Museum, with Engravings. tish Museum. Part IV. London, i8zo. 40 Introduzione alla Geologica di Scipione Brieslak. M. S. Brieslak. Milan, I8II. z vol. 80 Memoires sur l'Action mutuelle de deux Courans M. Ampere. electriques sur celle qui existe entre un Courant electrique et un Aimant ou le Globe Terrestre et celle de deux Aimans, l'un sur 1'autre, par M. Ampere. Astronomisches Jahrbuch fur das Jahr I 8zz. Von Prof. J. E. Bode. Dr. J. E. Bode. Berlin, I8I9. 80 i8. A Grammar of Botany, illustrative of Artificial Sir James Edward Smith. as well as Natural Classification, with an Explanation of Jussieu's System, by Sir James Edward Smith, M. D. London, i8zi. 80 history and Method of Cure of the Various SpeDr. James Cooke. cies of Palsy, by James Cooke, i82I. 80 U 445 Z 'PRESENTS, DONORS. :5. Observations made at Copenhagenl, Skagen,and Professor Schumacker. Lysabel, with the Ordnance Zenith Sector, by Professor Schumacker, MS. F? Feb. . Description d'un Monument Arabe du moyen Age J. Spencer Smith, Esq. existant en Normandie, par J. Spencer Smith, 2de Edition. Caen, i82o. 12 An Engraved Pewter Plate of Two Lambs connecMr. B. Killinbeck. ted at the Neck with only One Head. Four Letters from Spa, to John William Egerton, Hon. and Rev. Francis Earl of Bridgewater, from Francis Henry EgerEgerton. ton. 80 8. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of LonThe Horticultural So. don, Vol. IV. Part 2, London, i82i. 4? ciety. Observations on the Climate of Penzance, and the Davies Gilbert, Esq. District of the Land's Enid in Cornwall, by John Forbes, M. D. Penzance, Iz 82. o8 Monographie du Genre Hydrocotyle de la Famille M. Achille Richard. des Ombellif~res, par M. Achille Richard Fils. Brussels, 1820. 80 I5. Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe The Trustees of the Observatory, from May s, 1820, to May x, Radcliffe Observatory. 18z i, by and under the Direction of Rev. Abram Robertson, D. D. Sav. Prof. Astron. MS. F? za Di Marco Polo e degli altri Viaggiarori Veneziani The Abbot Placido Zurpiil illustri. Venice, i i 8 4 l Ia. Reports of the Commissioners appointed by His The Commissioners of Majesty to execute the Measures recommended Public Records. by a Select Committee of the House of Commons, respecting the Public Records of the Kingdom. i8oo-I8I9, z vols. F0 -Mar. I. Practical Observations on the Treatment of StricSir Everard Home, Bart. tures in the Urethra, by Sir Everard Home, Bart. Vol. III. London, 1821. 8 The Life of James the Second, King of England, The Rev. James Stanier &c. Collected out of Memoirs Writ of his own Clarke. Hand, by the Rev. J. S. Clarke, LL. B. Lonu don,i8i6. zvol. 40 Annales Academix Rheno.Trajectinaw. Anno The AcademyofArtsatnd 18I5-I8I9. Utrecht, 1817, &c. 5 vols. 8? Sciences of Utrecht. Acta Literaria Societatis Rheno-Trajectinx, Vol. ___ I. to IV. Utrecht, 1793, &c. 4 vol. 8? Verhandelingen van het Provinciaal Utregtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Utrecht, 1781, 9 vol. 80 Joan. F. L. Shroeder, Oratio de majoribus CorpoProf. Moll. rum Coelestium Permutationibus, quatenus ex iis Progressum Naturm in his corporibus formandis suspicari licet. Utrecht, I8I6. 80 Disputatio Geologica Inauguralis de Granite. Leyden, 1820. 80 Ger. Moll, Oratio de vitanda in Astronomiam Studio Fingendi Temeritate, et Coeli Observa446 j 1821. PRESENTS. DONORS. tione quam diligentissime instituendx. UJtrecht, I819. 8? Over den Voortgang en de Verbreiding den BoekProf. Moll. drukkunst in de vijftieinde en zestiende Eeua, van G. H. M. Delprat. Utrecht, I8zo. 80 Prys Verhandelingen over bet vookomen en weren der twee Gevechten, uitgegeven door het Utrechscl Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Utrecht, i80o5 so Verhandeling over de Oorzaken Waardoor ons Vaderland in't begin der zeventiende Eeua in't Voorbrengen van voortrefelijke Schrijvers Dich. ters geleerden en Schilders boven andere Landen zoor Zeer het uitgemunt Ewa, door J. Van Manen, Utrecht, i8xs 8? Verhandeling over de weelde bij de invoreren der Vereenigde Nederlanden en derzelver Voortgang en Invloed op den Burgerstaadt, door J. Van Manen. Utrecht, i8zo. 80 Twee Verhandelingen, de eene over de Ontgining der onbebouwde G-ronden in de noordelijke Nederlandsche Provinciecr, door Kolonisatieder behooftigen die zonder werk zich bevinden, en andere over bet Staatkundig Stelzel der Phoeniciers Grieken en Romeinen en het uitzenden van Volkplantingen en hoe verre men og he. den daags van dlie Voorbeelden gebruik zon kunnen maken? door Jacob van Manen. Utrecht, i8zo. 80 Over de Oorzaken der Aardbevingen, van Friedrich Kries. Utrecht, i8zo. so Waarnemingen omtrent verscheidene Soorten van Etterziehten benevens eenige Proofneemingen en Aanmerkingen over den Etter en andere dierlijke voogten, door I. W. Heppe, Utrecht, 1802. 80 Antwoord op de vra g voorgesteld door het Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wettenschappen, door Mr. Dirk Hoola van Nooten. Utrecht, i8io. 80 H. M. Marcard over de eigenaartige Zeiktens op bederfder Vochten. Utrecht, i8io. 80 Onderzoek nopen zeker vraagstuk uit ovenwight Kunde, door C. L. Bruninigs, Utrecht, 1803. 80 A Reply to an Article contained in the zoth Num. Dr. Aug. B. Granville. ber of the Journal of Science, edited by T. W. Brand-e, Esq. Sec. R. S. purporting to be a Review of Dr. Granville's Treatise on Prussic Acid. i82i. 80 The Visitation of Middlesex in the Year i663, T. Phillips, Esq. by Wm. Rigby, Esq. Lancaster, and Henry C 447 : 182I. PRESENTS. DONORS. Dethick, Rouge Croix, Marshals and Deputies to Sir Edward Bysshe, Knight, Clarencieux King of Arms, Salisbury, .82zo. F? Mar. 8. Ele'mens de Physiologie Vegetale et de Botanique, M. Brisseau Mirbel. par C. F. Brisseau Mirbel, Paris, IS 8I. 3 vols. Voyage sur le Mont Rose. M. Joseph de Frangois Zumstein. 15. Transactions of theCambridge Philosophical SoThe Cambridge Philociety, Vol. 1. Part i. Cambridge, i82i. 42 sophical Society. 29. A Treatise on the Plague, designed to prove it Sir Arthur B. Faulkener. Contagious; with Observations on its Prevention, Character, and Treatment, by Sir Arthur Brooke Faulkener, M. D. London 182o. 8" Transactions of the Society instituted at London The Society for Encou. for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, ragement of Arts, &c. and Commerce. Vol. 38. London, i8zi. 80 Comparaison des Effets de la Vaccine avec ceux M. Chambon de Monde la Petite Verole Inocul6e par la Methode des taux. Incisions, par M. Chambon de Montaux, Paris, 1821. 80 ,April 5. Die Kreisflache und das Verhaltniss des Kreises . Leonhardt. zum Durchmesser geometrisch bestimmt, von M. Leonhardts. Augsburg, 1820,, 4 A View of the Structure, Function, and Disorders Thomas Hare, Esq. of the Stomach and Alimentary Organs of the Human Body, by Thomas Hare, London, 1821. 8i 12. Flora Batava, No. 58. 40 H. M. The King of the Netherlands. 3lay 3. Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, The Royal Society of Vol. IX. Part I. Edinburgh, i8zx. 4? Edinburgh. An Historical Account of St. rThomas's Hospital, B. Goulding, Esq. Southwark, by Benjamin Goulding, London, 1819. I 2 A System of Practical Nosology, to which is preDr. David Hosac, fixed a Synopsis of the Systems of Sauvages, Linnxus, Vogel, Sagar, Macbride, Cullen, Darwin, Crichton, Pinel, Parr, Swediar, Young, and Good, with References to the best Authors on0 each Disease, by David Hosac, M. D. New York, i 8z i. 80 Annales des Mines ou Recuejil de Memoires sur Le Conseil des Mines. l'Exploitation des Mines, et sur les Sciences qui s'y rapportent. Vol. III. Part 3. and Vol. IV. Part 1. Paris, I82o. 8? Table Analytique des Matieres contenues dans les dix derni~res Volumes du journal des Mines, redigee, par A.C. S. Peltier. Paris, i82i. 8Q. Nouveau Memo~res de P'Academie Royale des The Royal Academy of Sciences et Belles Lettres de Bruxelles. Vol. 1. Sciences and LiteraBrussels, i8zo. 40 ture of Brussels. C 448 4J I8Z~g PRESENTS. DONORS. Memoires sur les Questions proposees par l-AcaThe Royal Academy of demie Royale des Sciences et Belles Lettres de Sciences and LiteraBruxelles en 1793, An 4, i8I6, qui ont remporte ture of Brussels. les Prix et l'Accessit en 1817. Brussels, I818. 40 The Hun terian Oration, delivered before the Royal T. Chevalier, Esq. College of Surgeons in London, on 14 February, ISz, by Thomas Chevalier, Esq. London, 1821. May 17. Address of the Astronomical Society of London, The Astronomical SociJanuary, I 8 20, and Report of the Council of the ety of London. Astronomical Society of London, to the First Annual General Meeting, Feb. 9, i 8zi . 8 Alte Malerkuns't und Johanti Gotlieb Walters Mr. Fried. Aug. Walter. Leben und Werke, von Friedrich August Walter. Berlin, i8zi. 80 A Manual of Chemistry, containing the principal Wm. Tho. Brande, Esq. Facts of the Science, arranged in the Order in which they are discussed and illustrated in the Lectures of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, by William Thomas Brande, 2nd Edition. London, 18zi. 3 VOIs. 80 24 Journal of a Voyage for the Discovery of a North. Capt. W-. Parry, R. N. west Passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, performed in the years 18i9 and I820, by H. M. Ships Hecla and Griper, under the Orders of W, Edw. Parry, R. N. With an Appendix, containing the Scientific and other Observa-. tions. London, I82I. 4 The North Georgia Gazette and Winter ChroniThe Contributors. cle. London, i821 . 40 MIemoire sur l'Influence du Systeime nerveux sur la Dr. Charles Chossat. Chaleur animale, par Charles Chossat, M. D. Paris, I 82o. 40 24. A Selection of the Correspondence of Linnxus SirJanmesEdwardSmith. a'd other Naturalists, from Original Manuscripts, by SiT J ames Edward Smith, M.D. London, i8zI. 2 vols. 80 Esprit, Origine, et Progres des Institutions judici.B. Gompertz, Esq. aires des principaux Pays de l'Europe, par r. D. Meyer. Vol. II. and IV. Hague, I819 and 1820. 80 3 t. A Narrative of the Conduct of the Swiss Regiments The Count de Salis. of Guards, in the Service of His late Majesty Lewis XVJ. King of France and Navarre, on the memorable i6 of August, 1792,written by Col. Pfyffer D'Altischoffen. London, 182!. 40 Rapport de M. le Chevalier Delambre, Secr. M. de Paravey. Perp. de l'Acad. des Scienees, sur les Memoires relatif a l'Origine commune fdes Sphbres de tous les Anciens Peuples, et 'al'Epoque voisine du Commencement de notre Ere que retracent C 449 3 i820. PRESENTS. DONORS. les Zodiaques decouverts en Egypte, specialement ceux de Dendera, par M. De Paravey. Paris, s82I. 20 LaW 7. A Treatise on the Valuation of Annuities and AsJoshua Milne, Esq. surances on Lives and Survivorships, by Joshua Milne. London, 1815. 2 vols. 8? Essai Eletnentaire de Geographie Botanique, par M. A. P. Candolle. A. P. Candolle. 8g A Short Account of the Life of the Right Hon. Dr. Andrew Duncan., Sir Joseph Banks, K. B. President of the Royal Society of London, by Andrew Duncan, Sen. M. D. Edinburgh, i82i. 8o 2i. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of LonHorticultural Society. don. Vol. IV. Part 3. London, i8zi. 40 Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar for The Royal Academny of Ar, I8zo. Stockholm, 18zo. so Sciences of Stockholm. Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der K6nigliProf. F. W. Bessel. chen Universitats Sternwarte in K6nigsberg, von F. W. Bessel, Part 5th, from ist January to 31st December, i8i8. Kdningsberg, i8zo. FO The Transactions of the Linnxan Society. Vol. The Linnean Society. XIII. Part ist. London I8zx. 40 Nova Acta Physico-Medica Academia Cxsarew Czsarean Academy. Leopoldino-Carolinoe Naturax Curiosorum. Vol. Io. Part I. Bonn. 1820. 40 Przcipuarum Stellarum Inerrantium Positiones Francis Bailey, Esq. medix ineunte Sxculo XIX. ex Observationibus habitis in Specula Panormitana ab anno 1792 ad annum 18I3. Palermo, 1854. 40 12. Archmologia, or Miscellaneous Tracts relating to The Society of AniquaAntiquity, published by the Society of Antiquares. ries of London. Vol. XIX. Part 2nd. London, i8zi. Plates I to 5 of the Vetusta Monumenta, Vol. VI. 7. Memorie di Matematica e Fisica della Societa H. I. H. the Archduke Italiana. Vol. I. to X. Verona, 1782 to i8s. Maximilian of Aus40 tria. Report upon Weights and Measures, by John John Quincy Adams, Quincy Adams, Secretary of State of the United Esq. States; prepared in Obedience to a Resolution of the Senate, of the 3rd of March, 1817. Washington, i 8a. 8? A Journal of Science, Literatures and the Arts, No. The Managers of the 59 to 22. 89 Royal Institution. Annals of Philosophy, No. 9i to 96. Dr. Thomas Thomson. Annals of Philosophy. New Series, No. I to 7. Mr. Richard Phillips. The Philosophical Magazine, No. 267 to 278. Dr. Alexander Tilloch. The Monthly Review from July i8So, to July Mr. George Edward I 8a i, and Appendices to Vol. 92, 93, and 94. Griffiths. The European Magazine from July 182o, to The Proprietors. July I82I. The London Magazine, No. 8 to i8. The Editors. I ND EX TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR 1821. A page Ammonia found in the products of papyri, arising probably from the decomposed glue used in the manufacture of the ink, 198 B Bakerian Lecture, on the best kind of steel and form for a compass needle, by CAPTAIN HENRY KATER, 104 BARLOW, PETER, Esq. On the effects produced in the rates of chronometers by the proximity of masses of iron, -0 361 BELL, CHARLES, Esq. On the nerves, giving an account of some experiments on their structure and functions, which lead to a new arrangement of the system, 398 Brain and Nerves, observations showing that the materials of which they are composed exist in the blood, B 5 Brassa Island, experiments to determine the times of vibration of the pendulum there, 165 BRINKLEY, REVEREND JOHN, D. D. An account of observations made with the eight feet astronomical circle, at the Observatory of Trinity College, Dublin, since the beginning of the year 1818, for investigating the effects of parallax and aberration on the planes of certain fixed stars; also the comparison of these with the former observations for determining the effects of lunar nutation, 327 MDCCCXXI. M INDEX. C page Charcoal and Hydrogen, on the aieiriform compounds of them, with an account of some additional experiments on the gases from oil and coal, 136 Chlorine and Carbon, on two new compounds of it, 47 _-on a new compound of these substances, X 392 Chronometers, on the effects produced in their rates by the proximity of masses of iron, 361 Coal, experiments on the gas produced from it, 151 Croonian Lecture, microscopical observations on the following subjects: on the brain and nerves, showing that the materials of which they are composed exist in the blood: on the discovery of valves in the branches of the vas breve, lying between the villous and muscular coats of the stomach: on the structure of the spleen. By Sir EVERARD HOME, Bart. 25 Cube, Cylinder, and Sphere, an account of the re-measuremient of those used by the late Sir GEORGE SHUCKBIJRGLL EVELYN, in his enquiries respecting a standard of weights and measures, 316 D DAvy, Sir HUMPHRY, Bart. On the magnetic phenomena produced by electricity, 7 Some observations and experiments on the papyri found in the ruins of Herculaneum, 191 Farther researches on the magnetic phenomena produced by electricity; with some new experiments on the properties of electrified bodies in their relations to conducting powers and temperature, 425 DAVY, JOHN, M. D. An account of the urinary organs and urine of two species of the genus Rana, 95 DOLLOND, GEORGE. Ain account of a micrometer made of rock crystal, 101 Dugong, from Sumatra, an account of its skeleton, 268 ___________________ on the peculiarities that distinguish it from the Manatee of the West Indies 39() INDEX. E paigeEARLE, LIENRY, Esq. On the re-establishment of a canal in the place of a portion of the urethra which had been destroyed, 300 Earth, on the mean density of it, 276 deductions as to its figure, 189 Eclipse, Solar, calculations of some observations on that of the 7th of September, 1820, 311 Electricity, on the magnetic phenomena produced by it, 7 farther researches on the magnetic phenomena produced by it; with some new experiments on the properties of electrified bodies in their relations to conducting powers and temperature, 425 Elephant, has two nerves belonging to the trunk, 419 F FARADAY, MICHAEL, Esq. On two new compounds of chlorine and carbon, and on a new compound of iodine, carbon, and-hydrogen, 47 and RICHARD PHILLIPS, Esq. On a new compound of chlorine and carbon, 392 Fossil bones, a farther account of some discovered in caverns inclosed in the lime-stone rocks at Plymouth, 133 G Gas, experiments on that produced from oil, 149 -experiments on that produced from coal, 5 Gasesfrom coal and oil, inferences respecting the composition of that part of them which is condensed by contact with chlorine, 156 inferences respecting the compo-. sition of that part of them which is not condensible by the action of chlorine, 152 GILEs, DANIEL, Esq. Particulars of a fact nearly similar to that related by Lord MORTON, M S Glasses, object, theory of them, 249 -lon their aberrations, 22 H Hare Island, experiments to determine the times of vibration of the pendulum there, 169 INDEX page HENRY, WILLIAM, M. D. On the aeriform compounds of charcoal and hydrogen; with an account of some additional experiments on the gases from oil and from coal, 136 Herculaneum, some observations and experiments on the papyri found in the ruins of that place, 191 HERSCHEL, J. F. W. Esq. On the aberrations of compound lenses and object-glasses, 222 _________ __On the separation of iron from other metals, 293 HOME, SIR EVERARD, Bart. On the black rete mucosum of the Negro, being a defence against the scorching effect of the sun's rays, . __ Croonian Lecture. Microscopical observations on the following subjects: on the Brain and Nerves; showing that the materials of which they are composed exist in the blood: on the discovery of valves in the branches of the vas breve, lying between the villous and muscular coats of the stomach: on the structure of the spleen. 25 __-~ An account of the skeletons of the dugong, two-horned rhinoceros, and tapir of Sumatra, sent to England by Sir THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES, 268 On the peculiarities that distinguish the manatee of the West Indies from the dugong of the East Indian Seas, 390 HUTTON, DR. CHARLES. On the mean density of the earth . 276 I Iodine, Carbon, and Hydrogen, a new compound of these substances described, l 72 Iron, on the separation of it from other metals, 293 in what manner it may be separated from uranium, 299 on the effects produced in the rates of chronometers by the proximity of masses of that metal, 361 K KATER, CAPTAIN HENRY. An account of the comparison of various British standards of linear measure, 75 The Bakerian Lecture: on the best kind of steel and form for a compass needle, 104 INDEX. page KATER, CAPTAIN HENR-Y. Notice respecting a volcanic appearance in the moon l 30 An account of the re-measurement of the cube, cylinder, and sphere, used by the late Sir GEORGE SHUCKIBURGH EVELYN, in his enquiries respecting a standard of weights and measures, 316 KIDD, JOHN, MI. D. Observations on naphthaline, a peculiar substance resembling a concrete essential oil, which is apparently produced during the decomposition of coal tar, by exposure to a red heat, 209 L Lenses, Compound, on their aberrations, 222 on the destruction of the spherical aberration of two of them of the same medium, placed close together, with a view to the improvement of magnifiers, eye-glasses, and burning lenses, 212 Light, Rays of, on the destruction of the chromatic aberration of the imperfections arising from their different refrangibility, 249 Lunar Nutation, _45 M Manatee, of the W~est Indies, on the peculiarities that distinguish this animal from the dugong of the East Indian Seas, t 390 Measure, linear, an account of the comparison of various British standards of linear measure, 75 Melville Island, experiments to determine the times of vibration of the pendulum there, 177 Metals, experiments on the different conducting powers of different metallic substances, 430 Micronmeter, an account of one made of rock crystal, 101 Moon, notice respecting a volcanic appearance in it, 130 MORTON, EARL OF, a communication of a singular fact in natural history, S0 N Naphthaline, a peculiar substance resembling a concrete essential oil, which is apparently produced during the decomposition of coal tar, by exposure to a red heat, observations on it, -0 09 Needle, Compass, on the best kind of steel and fornm for one, 104 INDEX. page Nerve, on the function of the trigeminus, or fifth nerve, 417 Nerve of the Face, Respiratory, is that which is called portio dura of the seventh, 410 its structure, 412 Terves, an account of some experiments on their structure and functionis, which lead to a new arrangement of the system, 398 those of the animal frame are complex in proportion to the variety of functions which the parts have to maintain, 402 may be divided into two parts or systems; the one simple and uniform, the other irregular and complex, in proportion to the complexity of organization, 403 on those of the face, 408 respiratory, 405 Nervous system, intricacy of it, 399 Nigrum pigmentum, is not necessary for vision, but only provided as a defence against strong light, 5 0 Oil, experiments on the gas produced fronm it, 149 P Papyri, some observations and experiments on those found in the ruins of Herculaneum, 191 ....'-an account of some experiments made in England on some fragments of papyri, in 1818, 192 on the state of those found at Herculaneurn, 194 an account of some experiments on papyri, made in the Museum at Naples, 199 some general observations on papyri, 204 Parallax, an account of observations made with the eight feet astronomical circle, at the Observatory of Trinity College, Dublin, since the beginning of the year 1818, for investigating the effects of parallax and aberration on the planes of certain fixed stars; also the comparison of these wvith former observations for determining the effects of lunar nutation, 327 Pendulum, an account of experiments to determine the times of its vibration in different latitudes, 163 Perchloride of Carbon, experiments on its nature, 49 INDEX. page PHILLIPS, RICHARD, Esq. and MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq. On a new compound of chlorine and carbon, -gg Presents, a list of those received by the Royal Society from November, 1820, to July, 1821, s 441 Proto-chloride of Carbon, a description of it, with experiments, 64 Q Quagga, a communication of a singular fact relating to that animal, C 0 R Rana, an account of the urinary organs and urine of two species of that genus, 95 Rete mucosum, on that of the Negro being a defence against the scorching effect of the sun's rays, Rhinoceros, two-horned, from Sumatra, an account of its skeleton 270 RUMKER, CHARLES. Calculations of some observations of the solar eclipse on the 7th of September, 1820, 311 S SABINE, CAPTAIN EDWARD, an account of experimients to determine the times of vibration of the pendulum in different latitudes i6-s Schlehallien experiment, an account of this experiment made by Dr. MASKELYNE and Dr. HUTTON in the years 177"4, 1775, and 1776, K 276 a comparison of this experiment with that performed by Mr. CAVENDISH, for ascertaining the mean density of the earth, 284 Sow, particulars of a singular fact relating to the litter of one, 23 Spherical aberration, developement and application of the equations for correcting it, -54 Spherical surfaces, general formulh for the focal distances and aberrations of anyer combination of them, 228 _---gen general theory of their aberrations for rays incident in the plane of the axis, 37 Spleen, observations on its structure and uses, 8 Sun's rays, the black rete mucosum of the Negro is a defence against their scorching effect, 1 INDEX. T page Tapir, from Sumatra, an account of its skeleton, 272 U Urethra, on the re-establishment of a canal in the place of a portion of the urethra which had been destroyed, _300 Urinary organs and tirine, an account of those belonging to two species of the genus Rana, 95 Vas breve, on the discovery of valves in the branches of it, lying between the villous and muscular coats of the stomach, 35 Volcano, lunar, notice respecting the appearance of one, 130 notice of three recorded by Sir WILLIAM HERSCHEL ini the Philosophical Transactions, l32 W WHIDBEY, JOsEPH, Esq. A farther account of fossil bones discovered in caverns inclosed in the liHoestone rocks at Plymouth 133 From the Press of WJ B ULMER 4Wf NICOLE Cleveland-row, St. James's, London. 