An Accompt of some Books. I. LA STATIQUE, ou La Science des Forces Mouvantes,par le P. Ignace Gaston Pardies,dela Compagnie de Jesus. A Paris, 1673. in 12o. THE Learned Author of this Book had proposed to himself to write a whole Body of Mechanicks, such an one, as might be accommodate to ordinary Capacities; he conceiving, that there had not been extant hitherto a compleat system of that Science, or, if there had, it did exceed the reach of most Readers: which latter he thinks to be the Character due to Dr. Wallis his Three Tomes de Motu & Mechanice, of which we gave an Account No. 54. p. 1086. No.61. p. 2005. No.76.p.2286. But since the publication of this part of it, we understand that he hath been prevented and cut off by an intimely Death; being regretted by those that knew his frankness and strong inclinations to promote philosophical knowledge. How far he hath indeed advanced those other parts of this Design,and, whe(6043) whether those of his Society, in case he hath made a good progress therein,will take care to see it publisht,we know not; but yet hope, He hath gone a good way therein, and, if so, that his Companions will not suppress his labors, for the benefit of young Students in this kind of knowledge. Concerning the whole Design, the Author (as appears by the Preface to this part of it) had so contrived it as to make it up of Six parts. The first is of Local motion,already published by him,though he thought not fit to prefix his Name to that part, in the year 1670. in French, and English't the same year; described in Numb. 65. p. 2010. The second is this very Discourse, entituled as above;which treats of such Motions, as are performed with Violence, by surmounting the Resistance that is made from elsewhere.Here, besides the Demonstration given of all those Moving Engins, whose force may be reduced to that of the Ballance, some reflexion is made on the Impossibility of the Perpetual Motion. Besides, the Author treats of Bodies suspended, fastned at one or both Ends; of the manner how they are broken; of the figure they take in becoming curve; and particularly of the Cases, where Cords extended will be Parabolical, Hyperbolical, Elliptical, or Circular. More-over, he examins the force of Towers and Pyramids, and shews in what part they are weakest; he determins the figures they ought to have to render them perfect and able every where to resist equally to the violence of Winds; delivers General Rules of the Resistance of bodies, and teaches the way of applying those general rules to particular cases, relating to Architecture and other effects of Nature and Art: And taking an Example of the motion of a Ship,he observeth the use that may be made therein of the Rules of Mechanicks. By the by,having made mention in the Preface of the uniform motion in a Cycloid, he gives us his way of demonstrating this Uniformity, to see, whether, when M.Hugens shall have publish't his demonstration, he be so fortunate as to concur with him in it. As for the other four parts, (which his Death, 'tis feared, will (6044) will deprive us of,) they should have contained, as he intimates in the same Preface, the following particulars: The first of them, the Motion of Heavy bodies; shewing all the proprieties of this motion, whether it be that the Bodies descend by their own weight, or are mov'd by some pulsion of violence. Where he would give the reason of that admirable augmentation and diminution of the Celerity of bodies, that pass in their ascent and descent through all the imaginable degrees of Tardity. On which occasion he would have discoursed, that Galilei hath not shew'd those proprieties but by supposing a Definition which is contested; and that Baliani undertook to give an other Progression to the Motion of those Bodies. Which two Authors having had their respective abettors, and whole Volumes of contestations having been written about it between Gassendus and Cazre, the whole business seemed to have been determined by three great Geometricians; M. Hugens and the P. de Billy having demonstrated, that the Progression of Baliani was impossible; and M. Fermat having shew'd, that there would need no less than a whole eternity for a Body that should, with this proportion of celerity, descend the height of one only foot. Whereupon the Learned seemed to have yielded to such regular demonstrations: But it appears, that P.Lalouvera survening made it out, that not withstanding all those demonstrations, the Progression of Baliani was very possible and very natural; the manner wherewith he maintained it, having appeared so fair,that M. Fermat himself was never able to gainsay it. All which the Author would have delivered in this first of the four remaining parts, and shew'd, that that first weight, or that determined degree of celerity, on which Lalovera's demonstration is grounded, cannot subsist. Where also should have been explained, not only a Progression altogether like it, found in the Motion of an Arm or Foot,or of Instuments which we hold when we strike; but also another kind of Progression,such as we find in Canon-bullets, or in Arrows shot with a Crassbow. To all which he would have added in the same part an examination of the motion made upon Inclined Superficies; where would have occur'd the demonstration, made also by M. (6045) M. Hngens, of that important proposition, touching the motion made in a Cycloid. The second of them, would have consisted of the Motion of Liquids; where he would not only have demonstrated all the pbaenomena of the Celerity of Liquors, of the Force of their Pressure, of the Direction and Figure they take in their Jets, Course, and Equal Poise; but also comprehended the whole Science of Pneumatiques, (since Air is a liquid;) the force of Springs, Rarefaction and Condensation, and the strange Violence of Gun powder kindled, and all the new Experiments of the Vacuum, and the reason of all those surprising Effects observed in them. The third would have treated of the motion of Vibration. Where he would have described a Pendulum having all its vibrations synchronous, together with a demonstration, that all Vibrations of a cord extended do last equally long; that the Vibrations of two cords of an equal thickness and tension are in a reciprocal proportion of the Length of the cords, whereas in Pendulums they are only in a sub-duplicate proportion; that in equal cords the Vibrations are in a sub-duplicate proportion of the forces or weights that make them tense; that the Vibrations are likewise in a sub-duplicate proportion of the thickness of the cords equally long and equally tense. And so he would have demonstrated by the Causes, what ever hath been observed by Experience in Sounds and in the Harmony of tense Bodies. The fourth would have discoursed of the Motion of Undulation, taking for an Example those Circles that are made on the surface of the water upon the throwing in of a stone. Where also would have been considered some Circles like the former, such as may be formed in the Air, and even in some other more subtile Bodies, which manifest experiments evince to be spred every-where. And of such Circles he would have examined,how they may be formed, how their motion is communicated, what are the lines of their direction, with what force they may act near or far off, how they may reflect and refract. Further, supposing that Sound hath for its vehicle this kind of motion in the Air, he would have explained all what (6046) what concerns Sounds; and making a Conjecture about the propagation of Light, he would have discussed, whether it might not be supposed,that Light hath for its vehicle some such motion in an Air more subtile; and shew'd, that indeed in this Hypothesis all the proprieties of Light and Colours might be explicated in a very natural way, without which it would not be done but with great difficulty. This is the whole Design,drawn up by the Author; in which he intended, as he saith in this piece, to have interspersed divers curious and useful practises of Art, and many demonstrations giving light for the decision of several considerable Questions in Natural Philosophy. II. Antonii le Grand HISTORIA NATURAE. Londini, apud J. Martyn, R. Societ.Typographum, ad Insigne Campanae in Caemeterio D. Pauli, A. 1673. in 8o. THE Learned Author of this Book, desirous to shew,that even the common and obvious phaenomena of Nature can be very congruously explained and accounted for by those Principles he hath formerly laid down,and published A 1672. under the Title of Institutio Philosophiae,described in Numb. 80. of these Tracts; maketh it his business in this Treatise, to pass, for that purpose, through the whole Body of Physiology,and in so doing to supply in due places what he hath omitted in the said Institution. This he performeth in Nine several parts, into which he thought fit to divide his Book; In the first of which he treats of the Nature of Bodies in gen ral: Where he endeavors,to disprove all Vacuity in Bodies; to resute the Arguments and Experiments alledged to assert a vacuum; and to explain the Proprieties and Affections of Bodies, as Indefinit Divisibility, Rarity and Density, Hardness and Fluidity, Roughness and Smoothness, Perspicuity and Opacity; alledging various Experiments concerning all these, and assigning Reasons for them. In the Second, he undertaketh to explain the true Nature of the Qualities of Bodies by Experiments, and to make it out (6047) out, that even those, that are commonly called Occult, may be explicated by Motion, Figure, Pores and Texture: where he discourseth at large of Heat, Cold, Gravity, Levity, Taste, Smell, Sound, Light, Colour, & c. In the third, he delivers the History of the Universe, and particularly of the Heavens, and the Stars, Planets, Comets; together with his Opinion concerning their Influences upon the Bodies here below. In the fourth,he dispatches the Explication of those four great Masses of the Sublunary World,the Earth, Water, Fire, and Air. About the Earth he examins its Position and Suspension in the Air, and its Magnetical vertue. Of the Water, he considers its proprieties, the Origin of Rivers and Fountains, and the Cause of the Flux and Reflux of the Sea. Of the Fire, he discourseth of its various Effects both above and under ground; Concluding this part with the Consideration of the great Power of the Air both in Natural and Artificial things. In the fifth, he examins Fossils, Mettals, Fluors, Salts, Stones, delivering his opinion about their origine, and discoursing amply of the Magnet in particular, assigning with Des Cartes the cause of the various phaenomena thereof to be the passage of the Materia striata through the pores thereof. In the sixth, he explains the doctrine of Meteors, Vapors, Exhalations, Winds,Rain,Hail,Snow,Dew,Thunder,Lightning, the Rainbow, & c. In the seventh, he treateth of Plants, their variety, parts, qualities and vertues, vegetation, nutrition, decay, & c. In the eighth, he giveth an account of Animals, of spontaneous and seminal generation, of the cause of Monsters, and of the different times observed in Animals for their bringing forth: To which he adds the various Affections of them, the Circulation of the Blood, Hunger and Thirst, Hatred and Love, Sleep and Waking, Infirmities and Diseases, & c. In the ninth and last,he delivers the doctrine of Man in particular, adscribing to him, exclusively to Brutes, Cogitation, and asserting, that though Man, like other Animals, makes use of the like Organs of Sense with them, yet he doth not in that manner, as they do,perceive Objects, in regard that Sense in Man is Cogitation, which, in his judgment, belongs not to Brutes. Whereupon he gives here an account of divers Experiments about the Touch, Tast, Smell, Hearing and Seeing; treating afterwards of Imagination and Memory, and explicating also the Cause of Dreams, and of the Passions, Propensions and Aversions in Man. H h h h h h III. The (6048) III. The Description and Use of Two ARITHMETICK INSTRUMENTS, & c. By S. Moreland. Printed in London, 1673. in 12o. THE Ingenious Author of this Book, having some years since contrived two Instruments,whereof the one is for Addition and Subtraction,the other for Multiplication; gives us here both a Description of the parts and Structure of these Instruments,and the way and manner of Using them: affirming withall,that the latter of these Instruments alone is also of excellent Use in Division, as likewise in Extracting the Square,Cube,and Square-Square-Roots; and likewise that,if any Curious person will go to the Expence,the Adding Instrument,being Joyned to the Multiplying, performs all the four Species of Arithmetick, and the Extraction of the said Roots, without the help of Pen and Irk, or exposing the Operator to any difficulty or uncertainty. But for the better understanding of these Instruments, he endeavours so to explain and demonstrate the reason of the Operations of the said four Species,and Extraction of Roots, as to render them plain and easie to the meanest capacities: Annexing thereunto, in short, the Doctrin of Proportions, Arithmetical, Geometrical, and Musical; as also the whole Intrigue of the Golden Rule. Which done, he teaches, 1. The Diameter of any Circle being given in Integers, to find the Periphery, and the Square-root of the Area, in infinitum, without the help newly mention'd. Next, he giveth us his Perpetual Almanack, together with an Explanation thereof,dividing that Almanack into three distinct Tables, which make the Use thereof obvious to all that shall take notice of his directions and exemplifications. Further,he subjoineth a Table for the ready finding,what Sign the Moon is in, or shall be for ever, together with the Use thereof: As also a Table shewing the Time of the Moon's coming to the South,and Quantity of her shining; with directions how to use the same. To these he adds a Tyde-Table and its Use, for certain Havens in and about England; whereby may be known, what Moon maketh a Full Sea in any of such places,and how many hours and minuts are to be added to the time of the Moons coming to the South for the time of Highwater. More-over,he sets down the Time of the Suns Rising and Setting throughout the whole year; and furnishes us both with a Table,shewing the Length of the longest Artificial Day in all places from the Equinoctial to the Poles of the World; and with other Tables readily discovering the exact time of the New and Full Moon, as likewise the first and second Quadrats, and consequently her true Age, from the year 1673 to 1700. All (6049) All which is concluded with an Advice touching the Poasts and Roads, said to be done more exactly than hath hitherto been published; and with a Table, carefully comparing Forrain Weights and Measures with the English, by the industry of Sir Jonas Moor Knight. IV. A Brief Account of some Travels in Hungaria, Servia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Thessaly, Austria, Styria, Carinthia, Carniola, Friuli, & c. By Edward Brown M.D. of the Colledge of London, Fellow of the R. Society, and Phys. in Ordinary to his Majestie. London, in 4o. THis Learned and Inquisitive Traveller gives so good an Accompt of the Voyages he made through those parts named in the Title, that thereby he excellently instructs others what great benefit may be made by Travelling, if performed with curiosity and Judgment. In our Account of it we shall pass by the Observations made of the Polity, Oeconomy, Manners and Customs of the respective Inhabitants of those Countries, as not properly belonging to our task; and observe only what is Physiological, and may contribute to the enlargement of the History of Nature: In reference to which, we cannot but take notice, amongst many other, of these particulars following; 1. Of the shining Mountain of Clissura,(one of the spurs of Mount Haemus,) and that of Pyrlipe in Macedonia, caused by the Muscoviaglass they abound with. 2. Of Mount Olympus being inferior to some parts of the Aipes in hight; Clouds also being seen above it. 3. Of the natural Productions of Thessaly, and in particular of the Plants growing there; among which is the Ilex coccifera, the Excretion whereof serves for dying and making the Confection of Alchermes. 4. Of a kind of Chalk at Banca in Hungary, which is of all colours, except green, and the colours so finely mixed,as Marble-paper doth not equal it. 5. Of the principal Mines of Hungary; as the Silver-mines at Schemnitz, 70 fathoms deep; abounding also with Cinnaber, Crystals, Amethysts and Vitriol naturally crystallized in the Earth: The Gold-mines at Cremnitz, about 9 or 10 English miles in length, of the depth of 170 fathoms; containing also Vitriol of divers colours, white, red, blue and green; and Vitriolate waters: Besides a neighbouring Vitriol-mine, about 80 fathoms deep: The Coppermines at Newsol and Herren-ground containing very rich ore, and divers sorts of Vitriol and Springs of a Vitriolat water changing Iron into Copper: The Salt-mine at Eperies of great note, about 180 fathoms deep, yielding pieces of Salt of ten thousand pound weight. H h h h h h 2 In (6050) In the description of all which Mines our Author delivers very particularly not only the scituation, depth, damps, waters, quantities, goodness and richness of ore; but also the wayes used by the Inhabitants of reducing their Ores into Metals, & c. All which would be too large to particularise in this place. 6. Of the many natural Hot-baths of Hungary, as at Banca, Glashitten, Eisenbach, Stubn, Boinitz. 7. Of the considerable Baths of Austria, especially those at Baden, 4 German miles from Vienna; described, at large also from our Authors communications, in Numb. 59. of these Tracts. 8. Of a Strange Lake of Zirchnitz in Carniola, very curiously described. 9. Of the considerable Quicksilver-mines at Idria, confirming the Account given of the same in Numb. 2. of these Tracts. 10. Of a stony excrescence upon the Liver of wild Goats, highly commended in Germany for a signal remedy against malignant diseases and the Plague. For the particular description of all which, and many more, we must refer the curious Reader to the Book it self. 