(42) Reg. Par. Soc. V. A Letter from Dr. Geo. Garden, Dated Aberdeen, Dec. 8, 1686. concerning Caterpillars that destroy Fruit. VI. Observatio de faemina, quae, non obstante vaginae uteri coalescentia infantem peperit. VII. Account of Books. 1. Numismata, a Discourse of Medals,Ancient and Modern; together with some Account of Heads and Effigies of illustrious and famous Persons, in Sculps, &c. To which is added, a Digression concerning Physiognomy. By J. Evelyn,Esq; S. R.S. in Fol. 2. Caspari, Bartholini Thom. F.Specimen Philosophiae Naturalis. Accedit de Fontium, Fluviorumque Origine Dissertatio Physica. Amstelodam. 1697. 12mo. I. Several Experiments concerning the Preserving of Flowers, Fruit, &c. Communicated by the Right Honourable Sir Robert Southwell, F. R. S. To Preserve Flowers in a Book that may retain their Colours. YOU must prepare Two Plates of Iron, large as an half or whole Sheet of Paper, or much larger, as you desire to Preserve Flowers of a great Size. These (43) These Plates must be too thick to bend, very smooth on one side, and Holes for Screws in each corner, to screw them close. For your Flowers, Leaves, &c. take them when perfectly Ripe, and in their true Colours; spread them on a brown Paper, with the Leaves as distinct as you can; and if the Flowers be large, there must more Paper lye under it; and if it be thick, you may pare away the one half thereof, as also of the Stalk, so as to make it lye almost flat, and some distinct Leaves may be separated and taken out, as a by Store, to be afterwards stuck in, and compleat the Flower. Then lay over all more brown Paper, and put these between the Iron-Plates screwed close, and put the same into an Oven for two Hours, just as the Bread is drawn. After which take out the Flowers; then take Aqua Fortis, and Aqua Vitae, or Brandy, in equal quantity, mixed together, and with a Brush pass over the Leaves of the Flowers. Then lay them on fresh brown Paper, and press them a little with a Handkerchief, or with your Fingers to grow dry. Then take the bigness of a Walnut of Gum Dragon, which, in less than Twenty four Hours, will be dissolved in a pint of fair Water; and with a fine Brush, rub the back sides of your Flowers and Leaves, to make them stick, and then lay them into your Paper.Book, where they will lye fast, and always look fresh. Memorandum,there must be a little Skill after the Oven, to turn the Leaves into shape, and a sort of Perspective, in case the Flower be too thick. And if you would add any smell to these Flowers, which will have none, touch them with such Essence as you think fit. To (44) To keep Fruit or Flowers the whole Year without spoiling. ~ Salt Petre one pound, Bole Armoniack two pounds, ordinary clean Sand three pounds; mix all together, and observe this Proportion in greater quantities. Then in dry Weather take Fruit of any sort, that is not fully Ripe, each with its Stalk, put them in one by one into an open Glass, till it be full, and then cover it with Oyl'd Cloth close ty'd down. Then in a dry Cellar put each of these Glasses four Fingers under Ground, and so as that quite round each Glass, and above and below, there may remain two Fingers thick of the said Mixture. N.B. That Flowers must be used in the same manner. To make Fruit and Flowers grow in the Winter. Take up Trees by the Roots in the Spring, just as they put forth their Buds, preserving some of their own Earth about the Roots. Set them standing upright in a Celler until Michaelmas, then fit them into Vessels, with an addition of more Earth, and bring them into a Stove, taking care to moisten the Earth every Morning with Rain-Water, in a quart of which you must dissolve the bigness of a Walnut, of Salt Armoniack, and about Lent Fruit will appear. As to Flowers, take good Earthen Pots, and therein Sow your Seed at Michaelmas,watering it the same manner with the like Water, and by Christmas you will have Flowers, as Tulips, Lillies, &c. This and the other may be done in a good warm Kitchin, and such Days as the Sun shines, you may set forth these things for some Hours. II.A 