j231J XIV. Researches on the oxymunratic Acid, its Nature and Combi'5 nations ; and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid. IWith some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus, made )in the Laborato of the Royal Institution.* By H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R. S. Prqf Cheme R. L F. R. S. E. Read July 1 2, 8 io. lHE illustrious discoverer of the oxymuriatic acid considered it as muriatic acid freed from hydrogene;t and the common muriatic acid as a compoun of hydrogene and oxymuriatic acid; and on ti is theory he denominated oxymuriatic acid dephiogisticated muriatic acid. M. BERTHOLLET,t a few years after the discovery of SCHEELE, made a number of important and curious experiments on this body; from which he concluded that it was composed of muriatic acid gas and oxygene ; and this idea for nearly twenty years has been almost universally adopted. Dr. HENRY, in an elaborate series of experiments, made with the view of decomposing muriatic acid gas, ascertained that hydrogene was produced from it, by electricity; and he attributed the phenomenon to water contained in the gas. In the Bakerian lecture for i8o8, I have given an account of the action of potassium upon muriatic acid gas, by which more than one third of its volume of hydrogene is produced and I have stated, that muriatic acid can in no instance be procured* Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Managers of the Royal Institution, t Mem. Acad. Stockholm for 17742 p. 9+4 I journal de Physique, 1785, p. 325. jj Phil. Trans, or x8oo, p? 9x,Hh Jo 23 9, Mr; DAVY'S Researches on the from oxymuriatic acid, or from dry muriates, unless water or its elements be presents In. the secondr volume of the Memoires d'Arcueil; M. M. GAY LusSAc and TIIENARD have detailed an extensive series of facts upon muriatic acid, and oxymuriatic acid. Some of their experiments are similar to those I have detailed in the paper just referred to ; others are peculiarly their own, and of a very curious kind: their general conclusion is, that muriatic acid gas contains about one quarter of its weight of wvater; and that oxymuriatic acid is not decomposable by any substances but hydrogene, or such as can form triple combinations with it. One of the most singular facts that I have observed on this -subject, and which I have before referred to, is, that charcoal, even when ignited to whiteness in oxymuriatic or muriatic acid gases, by the VOLTAIC battery, effects no change in them; if it hasp been previously freed from hydrogene and moisture by intense ignition in vacuo. This experiment, which I have several times e-Peated, led me to doubt of the existence of oxygene in that substance, whiclh has been supposed to contain it above all others in a loose and actiVe state; and to make a more rigorous investigation thanhad been hitherto attempted for its detection. If oxymuriatic acid gas be introduced into a vessel exhausted of air, containing tin ; and Athe tin be gently heated, and the gas in sufficient quantity, the tin and thee gas disappear, and a limpid fluid, precisely the samne as Libavius s liquor is formed ;-it occuredI to me, that if this sUbstance is a combination of muriatic acid and oxide of tin, oxide of tin ought to be separated from it by Ceans of am~nonia. I admitted ammoniacal gas over mercury to a all quantity of the ia-uor of Libavius muriatic Acid in its -dferent Statese it was absorbed with great heat, and no gas was generated; a solid result was obtained which was of a dull white colour ; some of it was heated, to ascertain if it contained oxide of tin; but the whole volatilized, producing dense pungent fumes. Another experiment of the same kind, made with great care, and in which the ammonia was used in great excess, proved that the liquor of Libavius cannot be decom pounded by am-n monia; but that it forms a new combination with this substance. I have described, on a former occasion, the nature of the operation of phosphorus on oxymuriatic acid, and I have stated that two compounds, one fluid, and the other solid, are formed in the process of combustion, of which the first, on the genes rally received theory of the nature of oxymuriatic acid, I must be considered as a compound of muriatic acid and phosphorous acid, and the other of muriatic acid and phosphoric acid. It occured to me, that if the acids of phosphorus really existed in these combinations, it would not be difficult to obtain them, and thus to gain proofs of the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid. I imade a considerable quantity of the solid compound of o -yiuria>tic acid and phosphorus by conmbustion, and saturated it With amvnonia, by heating it il a proper rece filled with anmoniacal gas, on wl/hch it acted with great energy, prodVicicg much heat; and they formned a white opaque powder. Supposing that thi substance was composed of the dry muriates and phosphates of ammionia; as muriate of ammonia is very volatile, and as ammonia is driven offfrom phosphoric-acid, bya heat below redness, I conceived that by igniting-the product obtained, I should procure phosphoric acid; I therefore introduced soee of the powder into a tube of green glass, 'n Mr., DAVY'S Re earches on the heated it to redness, out of the contact of air by a spirit lamp * but found, to my great surprise, that it, ,as not at all volatile nor'decomposable at this degree of heat, and that it gave off no gaseous matter. The circumstance that a substance composed principally of oxymuriatic acid, and ammonia, should resist decomposition or change at so high a ternperature, induced me to pay particular attention to the properties of this new body. It had no taste nor smell; it did not seem to be soluble, nor did it undergob any perceptible change when digested in boiling water: it did not appear to be acted upon by sulphuric, muriatic, or nitric acids, nor by a strong lixiviun of potash. The only processes by which it seemed susceptible of decomposition were by combustion, or the action of ignited hydrat of potash. When brought into the flame of a spirit lamp and made red-hot, it gave feeble indications of inflammation, and tinged the flame of a yellow colour, and left a fixed acid, having the properties of phosphoric acid. When acted on by red-hot hydrat of potash, it emitted a smell of ammonia, burnt where it was in contact with air, and appeared to dissolve in the alkali. The potash which had been so acted upon gave nmuriatic acid, by the addition of sulphuric acid. I heated some of thepowder to whiteness, in a tube of platina; but it did not appear to alter; and after ignition gave ammonia by the action of fused hydrat of potash. I caused ammonia, made as dry as possible, to act on the phosphuretted liquor of M. M.GAY LuSSAc and THENARD; and on the sulphuretted muriatic liquor of Dr. THOMSON; but no decomposition took place; nor was any muriate of ammonia formed when proper precautions were taken to exclude moQ*% tnu.ratic Acid in its di/fereht States. 235 ture. Trhe results were new combinations that from the phosphoretted liquor, was a white solid, from which a part of the phosphorus was separated by heat; but which seemed no further decomposable, even by ignition. That from the sulphuretted liquor was likewise solid, and had various shades of colour, froim a bright purple to a golden yellow, according as it was more or less saturated with ammonia; but as these compounds did not present the same uniform and interesting properties, as that from the phosphoric sublimate, I did not examine them minutely: I contented myself by ascertaining that no substance known to contain oxygene could be procured from oxymuriatic acid, in this mode of operation. It has been said, and taken for granted by many chemists, that when oxymuriatic acid and ammonia act ipon each other, water is formed; I have several times made the experiment, and I am convinced that this is not the case. When about i5 or i6 parts of oxymuriatic acid gas are mixed with from 40 to 45 parts of ammoniacal gas, there is a condensation of nearly the whole of the acid and alkaline gasses, and from 5 to 6 parts of nitrogene are produced; and the result is dry muriate of ammonia. Mr. CRUIJKS1JANK has shown that oxymuriatic acid and hydrogene., when mixed in proportions nearly equal, produce a matter almost entirely condensible by water; and M. M. GAY LuSSAc and THENARD, have stated that this matter is common muriatic acid gas, and that no water is deposited in the operation. I have made a number of experiments on the action of oxymuriatic acid gas and hydrogene. When these bodies were nixed in equal volumes over water, and intros duced into an exhausted vessel and fired by the electric spark,, there was always a deposition of a slight vapour, and a condenMr. DAVY's Researches on the sation of from ads to -.," of the volume; but the gag remaining was muriatic acid gas. I have attempted to make the experiment in a manner still more refined bydrying the oxymuriafic acid and the hydrogene by introducing them into vessels containing muriate of lime, and by suffering them to combine at common temperatures; but I have never been able to avoid a slight condensation ; though in proportion as the gasses were f-ree from oxygen-e -or water, this condensation diminished. I mixed together sulphuretted hydrogene in a high degree purity and oxym uriatic acid gas both dried, in equal volumes II this instance the condensation was not +-!; sulphur, whici seemed to contain a little oxymnuriatic acid, was formed on the sides of the vessel ; -no vapour was deposited and the residual gas containedabout I of muriatic acid gas, and the remainder was inflammable. 'M. M. GAY LUSSAC and THE4NARD have proved by a copiouS collection of instances, that in the usual cases where oxygene is procured from oxymuriatic acid, water is always present, and muriatic acid gas is formed; now, as it is shewn that oxymuriatic acid gas is converted into mu-riatic acid gas, by combining with hydrogene it is scarcely possible to avoid the conclusion, that the oxygene is derived from the decomoosition of water, and,, consequently, that the idea of the existence of water in muriatic acid gas, is hypothetical, depending upon an Assumption whiclh has not yet been proved-the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid gas. M. M. GAY LUSSACand THE{NARD indeed have stated an %perimwent which they consider as proving that muriatic acid -gas'contains one quarter of its weight of combined water. They -passed this gas over litharge, and obtained so much water; but it is obvious that in this case they formted the same Muriatic Acid in its ditierent States. 2,37 compound as that produced by the action of oxymuriatic acid on lead; and in this process the muriatic acid must loose its hydrogene, and the lead its oxygene; which of course would form water; these able chemists, indeed, from the conclusion of their membir, seem aware, that such an explanation may be given, for they say that the oxymuriatic acid may be cansidered as a simple body. I have repeated those experiments which led nme first to suspect the existence of conribined water in muriatic acid, with considerable care; I find that, when mercury is made to act upon 1 in volume of muriatic acid gas, by VOLTAIc electricity, all the acid disappears, calomel is formed, and about .5 of hydrogene evolved. With potassium, in experiments made over very dry mercury, the quantity of hydrogene is always from 9 to ii, the volume of the muriatic acid gas used being 2o. And in some experiments made very carefully by my brother Mr. JOHN DAVY, on the decomposition of muriatic acid gas, by heated tin and zinc, hydrogene equal to about half its volume was disengaged, and mnetallic mtriates, the same as those produced by the combustion of tin and zinc in oxyx mnuriatic gas, resulted. It is evident from this series of observations, that SCJHEELE>' view, (though obscured by terms derived from a vague and unfounded general theory,) of the nature' of the oxymuriatic and muriatic acids, may be considered as an expression of facts; whilst the view adopted by the French school of chemistry, and which, till it is minutely examined, appears so beautiful and satisfactory, rests in. the present state of our knowledge, upon hypothetical grounds. Dcccx. I i 9,8 Mr. DAVY'S Researches on the When oxvmuriatic acid is acted upon by nearly an equal volume of hyd rogene, a combination takes place between them, and muriatic acid gas results. When muriatic acid gas is acted on by mercury, or any other metal, the oxymuriatic acid is attracted from the hydrogene, by the stronger affinity of the metal; and an oxymuriate, exactly similar to that formed by combustion, is produced. The action of water upon those compounds, which have been usually considered as muriates, or as dry inuriates, but which -are properly combinations of oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bases, may be easily explained -according to these views of the subject. When water is added in certain quantities to Libavius's liquor, a solid crystallized mass is obtained, from which oxide of tin and muriate of ammonia can be procured by ammonia. In this case, oxygene may be conceived to be supplied to the tin, and hydrogene to the oxymuriatic acid. The compound formed by burning phosphorus in oxymuFiatic acid, is ina similar relation to water: if that substance be added to it, it is resolved into two powerful acids ; oxygene, it may be supposed, is furnished to the phosphorus to form phosphoric acid, hydrogene to the oxymuriatic acid to form common muriatic acid Lgas. None of the combinations of the oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bodies, can be decomposed by dry acids; and this seems to be the test which distinguishes the oxymuriatic com binations from the muriates, though they have hitherto been confounded together. Muriate of potash for instance, lf M. BERTHOLLET'S estimation of its composition, approaches towards accuracy, when ignited, is a compound of oxymrnmuriatic Acid in its diferent States. ,39 riatic acid with potassium-; muriate of ammonia, is a com-a pound of muriatic acid gas and ammonia; and when acted on by potassium, it is decompounded ; the oxymuriatic acid maybe conceived to combine with the potassium to form muriate of potash, and the ammonia and hydrogene are set free. The vivid combustion of bodies in oxymuriatic acid gas, at first view, appears a reason why oxygene should be admittedin it; but heat and light are merely results of the intense agency of combination. Sulphur and metals, alkaline earths and acids become ignited during their mutual agency; and such an effect might be expected in an operation so rapid, as that of oxymuriatic acid upon metals and inflammable bodies. It may be said, that a strong argument in favour of the hvpothesis, that oxymuriatic acid consists of an acid basis united to oxygene, exists in the general analogy of the com.e pounds of oxymuriatic acid and metals, to the commonneutral salts ; but this analogy when strictly investigated, will be found to be very indistinct, and even allowing it, it maybe applied with as much force to support an opposite doctrine, namely, that the neutral salts are compounds of bases with water; and the metals of bases with hydrogene; and that in the case of the action of oxymuriatic acid and metals, the metal furnishes hydrogene to form muriatic acid, and a basis to produce the neutral combination. That the quantity of hydrogene evolved during the decomposition of muriatic acid gas by metals, is the same that would be produced during the decomposition of water by the same bodies, appears, at first view, an evidence in favour of the: existence of water in muriatic acid gas; but as there is only one known combination of hydrogene with oxymuriatic acid, I i 2 40 Mr. DAVY'S Researches on the one quantity must always be separated. 1-ydrogene is dis engaged from its oxymuriatic combination, by a metal, in the same manner as one metal is disengaged by another, from similar combinations ; and of all inflammable bodies that form compounds of this kind, except perhaps phosphorus and sulk phur, hydrogene is that which seems to adhere to oxymuriatic acid with the least force. I hlave caused strong explosions from an electrical jar, to pass throupgh oxymuriatic gas, by means of points of platina, for several hours in succession ; but it seemed not to undergo the slightest change. I electrized tLe oxymuriates of phosphorus and sulphur for some hours, by the power of the VOLTAIC apparatus of ioC)o double plates; Ino gas separated, but a minute quantity of hydrogene, which I am inclined to attribute to the presence of moisture in the apparatus employed; for I once obtained hydrogene from Libavius's liquor by a similar operation; but I have ascertained that this was owing to the decomposition of water, adhering to the mercury; and in some late experiments made with 2000 double plates, in which the discharge was from platina wires, and in which the mercury used for confining the liquor was carefully boiled, there was no production of any permanent elastic miatter. As there are no experimental evidences of the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid gas, a natural question arises, concerning the nature of these compounds, in which the muriatic acid lhas been supposed to exist, combined with much more oxygene than oxymuriatic acid, in the state in which it has been named by Mr. CHENEVIX, hyperoxygenized muriatic acid. murnatic din its dX erent States. ,41 Can tle oxymuriatic acid co nbine either with oxygene' or bydrogene, and form with each of them an acid compound; of which that with hvdrogene has tfie strongest, and that with oxygene the weakest affinity for bases ? for the able chemist to whom I hlave just referrel, conceives that hyperoxymuriates are decomposed by n-iriatic acid. 0r, is hyperoxymuriatic acid the basis of all this class of bodies, the most simple form of this species of matter? The paannomcna of the composition, and decomposition of the htyperoxymtul.iates, may be explained on either of these su positions ; but they are incre suppositions unsupported by ex~ {erim nlt. I have endeavoured to obtain the neutralizing acid, 'which has b een imagined to be Ihyperoxygenised, from hyperoxymuriate of potash. by various modes, but uniformly without success. By distilling the salt with dry boracic acid, though a little oxymuriatic acid is generated, yet oxygene is the chief gaseous product, and a muriate of potash not decomposable is produced. The distillation of the orange coloured fluid, produced by dissolving hyperoxyniuriate of potasb in sulphuric acid, affords only oxygene in great excess, and oxytnuriatic acid. When solutions of muriates, or mnuriatic acid are electrized in the VOLTAIC circuit, oxymuriatic acid is evolved at thle positive surface, and hydrogene at the negative surface. When a solution of oxy inuriatic acid in water is electrized, oxymuriatic acid and oxygene appear* at the positive surface, * The quantity of oxymuriatic acid in the aqueous solution, is so small, that the pri ncipal products must be referred to the decomposition of water. Tfhis happens irt other instances; the water only is decomposed ai dilute solutions 9f nitric and sul. phuric acids. 242 Mr. DAvY's Res-oarches on the and hydrogene at the negative surface, facts which are certainly unfavourable to the idea of the existence of hyperoxygenised muriatic acid, whether it be imagined a compound of oxymuriatic acid with oxygene, or the basis of oxyrnuriatic acid. If the facts respecting the hyperoxymuriate of potash, indeed, be closely reasoned upon, it must be regarded as nothing more than as a triple compound of oxymuriatic acid, potassium, and oxygene. We have no right to assume the existence of any peculiar acid in it, or of a considerable por.tion of combined water; and it is perhaps more conformable to the analogy of chemistry, to suppose the large quantity of oxygene combined with the potassium, which we know has an intense affinity for oxygene, and which from some experimentsj.. am inclined to believe, is capable of combining directly with more oxygene than exists in potash, than with the oxymuriatic acid, which, as -far as is known, has no affinity for that substance. It is generally supposed that a mixture of oxymuriatic; acid and hyperoxymuriatic acid is disengaged when hyperoxymuriate of potash is decomposed by common muriatic acid ;* but I am satisfied from several trials, that the gas procured in this way, when not mixed with oxygene, unites to the same quantity of hydrogene,t as common oxymuriatic acid gas from manganese; and I find, by a careful examination, that the gas disengaged during the solution of platina, in a mixture* If hyperoxymuriate of potash be decomposed by nitric or sulphuric acid, it affords oxymuriatic acid and oxygene, If it be acted upon by muriatic acid, it affords a large quantity of oxymuriatic acid gas only. In this last case, the phoenomenon seems merely to depend upon the decomposition of the muriatic acid gas, by the oxygene, loosely combined in the salt. t This likewise appears from Mr. CR U Ic Ks S A N K's experiments. See Nicholson's journal, Vol. V. 4to. p. zo6. nmuriatic A4cid in its pafferent States. e43 of nitric and muriatic acids, which has been regarded as hyperoxymuriatic acid, but which I stated some years ago to possess the properties. of oxymuriatic acid gas, is actually that body, owing its peculiar colour to a small quantity of nitromuriatIc vapour suspended in it, and fromn which it is easily freed by washing. Few substances, perhaps, have less claim to be considered as .acid, than oxyrnuriatic acid. As yet we have no right to say that it has been decompounded; and as its tendency of comWination is with pure inflammable matters, it may possibly belong to the same classof bodies as oxygene. May it not in fact be a peculiar acidifying band dissolving 'principle, forming compounds with combustible bodies, analogous to acids containing oxygene, or oxides, in their pro. perties and powers of combination ; but differing from them, in being for the most part, decomposable by water ? On this idea muriatic acid may be considered as having hydrogene for its basis, and oxymuriatic acid for its acidifying principles. And the phosphoric sublimate as having phosphorus for its basis and oxymnuriatic acid for its acidifying matter. And Libavius's liquor, and the compounds of arsenic with oxymu* The platina, I fThd by several experiments, made with great care, has no share in producing the evolution of this gas. It is formed during the production of aqua regia. Trhe hydrogene of the muriatic acid attracts oxygene from the nitric acid, Oxymuriatic acid gas is set free, and nitrous gas remains in the solution, and gives it a deep red colour. itrous acid and muriatic acid produce no oxymuriatic acid gas. Piatina, during its solution in perfectly formed aqua regia, gives only nitrous gas and nitrous vap)our ; and I find, that rather more oxymuriatic acid gas is produced, by heating together equal quantities of nitric acid of i.45, and muriatic adid of .I'8, when they are not in contact with platina, than when exposed to that metal. The oxymuriatic acid gas, produced from iruriatic acid by nitric acid, I find combines with about an equal volume of hydrogene by detonation. 244 Mr. DAVY'S Researches on the riatic acid, may be regarded as analogous bodies. The come binations of oxymuriatic acid with lead, silver, mercury, POtaSsium, and sodium, in this view would be considered as a class of bodies related more to oxides than acids, in their powers of attraction. It is needless to take up the time of this learned Society by dwelling upon the inperfection of the modern nomenclatuire of these substances. It is in mnaky cases connected with false ideas of their nature and composition, and in a mare advancd state of the enquiry, it will be necessary for the progress of science, that it should undergo material alterations It is extremely probable that there are many combinations of the oxymuriatic acid with infla-n nable bodies which have not been yet investigated. With 4lhosphorus it seems capable of combining in at least three proportions; the phosphuretted muriatic acid of GAY LuSSAc and THENARD is thie compound containing the maximum of p11osphorus. The chrystalline phosphoric sublimate, and the liquor forrned by the combustion of phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid gas, disengage no phosphorus by the action of weater; the sublimate, as I have already mentioned, affords phosphoric and muriatic. acid; and the liquid, I believe only phosphorous acid and nmuriatic acid. The sublimate from the boracic basis gives, I believe, only boracic and muriatic acid, and may be regarded as boracium acidified by oxymuriatic acid. It is evident, that whenever an oxymuriatic combination is decomposed by water, the oxide or acid or alkali or oxidated body formed must be in the samne proportion as the muriatic acid gas, as the oxygene and hydrogene must bear the same relation to each other; and experiments upon these coEms Fzriatic Acid in its Cferent States. 245 pounds will probably afford simple modes of ascertaining the proportions of the elements, in, the different oxides, acids and alkaline earths. If, according to the ingenious idea of Mr. DALTON, hydrogene be consid'red as i in weight, in the proportion it exists in water, then oxygene will be nearly 7.5; and assuming that potash is composed of 1 proportion of oxygene, and i --of Ptassium, then potash will be 48, and potassium * about 4o.5; and from an experiment which I have detailed in the last Bakerian lecture, on the combustion of potassium in muriatic acid gas, oxymruriatic acid will be represented by 32.9, and muriatic acid gas, of course, by 33.9; and this estimation agrees with the specific gravity of oxymuriatic acid gas, and muriatic acid gas. From my experiments, loo cubical inches of o~xymuriatic acid gas weigh, the reductions being made for the mean temperature and pressure, 74.5 grains; whereas by estimation they should weigh 74.6. Muriatic acid gas I find w6eighs, under like circumstances, i, the quantity of ioo cubic inches, 39 grains; by estimation it should weigh 38.4 -rains. It is easy from these data, knowing the composition of any .~~~~~~~~~~ dry muriate, to ascertain the quantity of oxide or of acid it would furnish by the action of water, and consequently the quantity of oxygene with which the inflammahile matter will combine.tSupposing potash to contain nearly -I5.6 per cent. of oxygene. I rave stated in the last Bakerian lecture, that during the decomposition of the amalgam trom aunmonia, i in volume of hydrogene to 2 of ammonia is evolved: it is rem'Arkabhl that whatever theory of the nature of this extraordinary compound be adopred,! there will be a happy coincidence as to definite proportions. If it be supposed That the hydrogene arises frm the decomposition of water,; then the oxygene thatMDCCCX. 246 Mr. DAVY's Researches on the In considering the dry muriates, as compounds of oxymuriatic acid and inflammable bodies; the argument that I have used in the las t Bakerian lecture, to shew that potassium does not fohr hydrate of potash by combustion ir considerably st-rengthned; for from the quantity of oxymuriatic acid the metal requires to produce a muriate, it seems to be shewn that it is the simplest known form of the alkaline matter. This I think approaches to an experimentum, crucis. Potash made by alcohol, and that has been heated to redness, appears to be an hydrat of potash, whilst the potash formed by the combustion of potassium must be considered as a pure metallic oxide, which requires about 19 per cent. of water to convert into a hydrat. Amongst all the known combustible bodies, charcoal is the only one which does not combine directly with oxymuriatic acid gas ; and yet tbere is reason for believing that this coma must be assumed to exist in ammonia, will be exactly sufficient to neutralize the hy. drogene, in an equal volume of muriatic acid; or if it be said that ammonium is a compound of z of ammonia and i of hydrogene in volume, then equal volumes of muriatic acid gas and ammonia will produce the same compound as oxymuriatic acid and ammonium, supposing they could be immediately combined. I once thought that the phbnom ena of metallization might be explained according to a modifed phlogistic the ory, by supposing three different classes of metallic bodies : First, The' metal of anmonia, in which hydrogene was so loosely combined as to be separable with great ease, and wvich, in consequence of the sinall afinity of the basis for water, it had Ettle tendency to combine with oxygene. The second, the metals of the alkalies and alkaline earths, in which the hydrogene was more fi1nly combined, but in combustion, forming water capable of being separated from the basis. And, thirdly, the metals of the earths and common metals, in which the hydrogens was more intimately combied ; producing by jaloii with oxygene, water not separable by aanly nt attractions. Ti e ph nomrena of the action of potassium and sodium upon n uriatic acid, referred to in the text, seen however to overtur. these speculations so fEr as they concern the nmv -s from the fxed alalies, eurkicl aA} , rern t StaIes in ation may be formed bv the intermedium of hydrogene. I am inclined to co sider' th; oily subst arce produ eel by te action of oxynnuriatic acid gas, and ole&lant gas, as a ternary coipound of these bodies for they combine nearly in equal volumes ; and I, find that, by the action of potassium upon the oil so produced, muriate of potash is formed, and gaseous rnatte r which I ave not yet been able to collect in sufficient quantity to decide upon its nature, is formed. Artificial camphor and muiriatiV ether, as is probable from the ingenious expertis ments of M. GEHLEN and M. TIENARD, mtust be combinations of a similar kind, one Probably with more hydrogen , and the other with more carbon. One of the greatest problems in Economical chemistry, is the decomnposition of the muriates of soda and potash. The solu.e tion of this problem will, perhaps, be facilitated by these new views. The affinity of potassium and sodium for oxymuriatic acid, is very strong; but so likewise is their attraction for oxygene, and the affinity of their oxides for water. The affinif ties of oxymtunatic acid gas for hydrogene, and of mus rialtic acid gas for water, are likewise of a powerful kind. Water, therefore, should be present in all cases, when it is intenld 1 to attempt to produce Plalli' It is not difflcult after these views to explain the decomposition of common salt, by alutrinious or Silicious substances, which, as it has been long kniown act ony1 when they Contain water. In these cases the sodium may be conceived to combine with the oxvyene of the xrater and with the earth, to form a vitreous compound'and the oxyuarnatic acid to unite with the hydrogene of the water, forming muriatic acid gas. It is also easy, according to these new ideas, to explain Kk X 48 Mr. DAVY'S Researches on the the decomposition of salt by moistened litharge, the theory .of which has so much perplexed the most acute chemists. It may be conceived to be an instance of compound amnity the oxymuriatic acid is attracted by the lead, and the sodiUM combines with the oxygene of the litharge and with water to form hydrat of soda, which, gradually attracts carbonic acid from the air. As iron has a strong affinity for oxynririatic acid, I attempted, to procure soda by passing steam over a mixture of iron filings, and muriate of soda intensely heated: and in this way, I succeeded in dccomposing some of the salt: hydrogene came over; a littie hydrate of soda was formed; and muriate of iron was produced, It does not seem improbable, supposing the views that have been developed accurate, that by complex affinities, even potassium and sodium in their metallic form, may be procured fron their oxymuriatic combinations: for this purpose the oxymu. riatic acid should be attracted by one substance, and the alkaline metals by another; and such bodies should be selected for -thle experiment, as would produce compounds difriT cons e ablx in degree of volatilitV. I c~annot conclude the subject of the applica ion of liese doctrins, v1i tho~ut asklng permission to direct the attelition of the Scciety, to somue of the theoretical relations of the facts noticed in theQ preceding pages. ThaL a body principally composed of oxymuriatic acid and aatonlia, two substances which haave been generally concved -ncapabl3e of existing together, should 'be so diiC it of decomuosition, as to be scarcely afected by any of 4le agents ,f chemistry, -is a phtenomenon -of a perfectly new kind, muiriatic Acid in its dfeit States. T'hree, bodies, two of wLich are petr 'anent gases, and the other of which is consideraIbly volatile, form in this instance, a substance neither fusible nor volatile, at a white heat. It could not have been expected that ammonia would remain fixed at Such a temperature ; but that it should remain fixed in combination with oxy,` m1riatic acid, would have appeared incre. diA01e, acco. d-.gnz to all the existing analogies of chemiistry. The experinents on wihich these conl usions are founded, are , owever, uimform in their results: and it is easy to repV-at thenio. 4 hl-e.y S'c-el to shew, that the common chemical pr 3Osition, that comrnplex~ity of cot.mposition is uniformly connected w ith facility of decomposition, is not w 'ell founded. The compounld of oxymuriatic acid, phosphorus, and am. Mnonia, re-sembles an oxide, such as silex, or that of columbium in its general chemical characters, and is as refractory whe1 treatLd by conmon re-agents ; and except by the effects of comibustion, or the agency of fused potash, its nature could not be detected by any of the usual methods of analysis. Is it 'not likely, reasoning from these circumstances, that many of the subst-nces, rtow supposed to beelementary, mnay be reduced hIto Sirnpler fo rms of matter ? And that an intense 'uraction, and P1L1 egquilibriuma of attraction, m-ay give to a compvouii d, containing several constituents, that refractory ciaracter', which is geiaerally attributed to unity of constitution, or to the 1iom1--cne&us nature of its parts ? Besides the compoundof the phosphoric sublimate and a m m onia, au;nId thue other analogous comnpotunds which have been referred to, it is probable that othne comipounds of likenatt1re, ray Oformed of the oxides, alkalies, and eart st V IM the oxymuriatic combinations, or of the oxymuriatic: Mr. DAVY'S Researches on '.compounds with each other; and should this be the case, the more refined analogies of chemical philosophy will be extended by these new, and as it would seem ! at first view, contradictory facts. For if; as I have said, oxvmuriatic acid gas be referred to the same class of bodies as ofAvgate gas, then, as oxygene is not an acid, but forms acids by combininig -with certain inflammable bodies, so oxymuriatic acid, by uniting to similar suLbstances, may be conceived to form either acids, which is the case when it combines with hydrogenee, or compounds like acids or oxides, capable of forminiw neutral combinations, as in the instances of the oxymurPates of phosphorus and tin. L~ike oxygene, oxymuriatic acid is attracted by the positive surface in VOLrAIc combinations; and on the hypothesis of the connection of chemical attraction Edith electrical powers, all its energies of combination, correspond with those of a body su-pposed to be negative in a high degree. And in most of -its compounds, except those containing the alkaline metals, which may be conceived in the highest degree positive, and the metals with which it forms insoluble compounds, it seems still to retain its negative character. I shall occupy the time of the Society for a few minutes longer only, for the purpose of detailing a few observations connected with the Bakerian lectures, delivered in the two last years; particularly those parts of them relating to sulphur <and phosphorus, which new and more minute enquiries have ienabled me to correct or extend. I have already mentioned that there are considerable differences in the results of experiments, made on the action of potassium, on sulphur and phosphorus, and their combinations Sulphur and, Phosphorus. 2JL with hydrogene, according to different circumstances othe process. I shall now refer to such of these circumstances as I have been able fully to investigate. The able researches of Dr. TiiOMSON have shewn that subphur, in its usual state, contains small quantities of acid matter; and though, in my first experiments, I conceived that by em-> ploying chrystalized native sulphur, which had been recently suolimed in nitrogene, I should avoid the presence of any fo-cign matter, yet I am inclined to believe that this is not the case; for by subliming same similar sulphur in nitrogene, I find that litmus paper placed in the upper part of the retort is. slightly reddened. When potassium is made to unite with sulphur, if the retort employed is not lined with sulphur, some of the potassium is destroyed by acting upon the glass; and when large quan-a tities of sulphur are used, it is very difficult to decompose the whole of the sulphulet of potassiumn by an acid: sulphuretted hydrogene likewise is soluble in muriatic acid; and this circumstance led me to under-rate the quantity of sulphuretted, hydrogene given off in experiments of this kind.* I i acting upon sulphuretted hydrogene by potassium in my early experiments, I used large quantities of the gas and of the metal; and in these cases I have reason to believe that: the violence of the combustion, occasioned the decomposition. * This circumstance has been poir ted out by M. M. GAY LTUSSAc and TE BNARD; in a paper printed in the Jouraial de Physique for December, in which these gentlemen endeavour to shew that, whether potassiumn has been acted upon by large or small q antities of sulphur, and under all circumstances, it evolves a quantity of gas exactly equal to that which it produces by the action of water. I have been able to gain no results so precise on this subject. I have in another place (the same journal in whiciv their memoir has appeared)-offered some observations on their enquiries, 2'5'9, Mr. DAVY'S Researches on of a coinsderable quantty of the gas; and, in coisequence, led me to form erroneous conclusions concerning the nature of this curious operation. In all late experiments in wblich sulphur, or sulphuretted hydrrogene were concerned, I have used muriatic acid saturated with sulphuretted hvdrogene over nercury. I have etrployed sulphtur distilled frorn iron pyrites in vacuo, which did not in the slightest degree affect litmus paper, and I have combined it-with potassium in retorts of green-glass, or plate-glass lined with sulphUr and filled with very pure nitrogene or hiydrrgene. In making potassium act upon sulphuretted hydrogene, I have employed the gas only in the quantities of from i to 3 cubical inches, and have made the combination in narrow curved tubes of green glass over dry mercury. With all these pre. cautions, and after having made a great nunber of experiments, I am not able to gain perfectly uniform results. Yet there is a sufficient correspondence between them to enable me to forin conclusions, wh-ich I may venture to say cantio~t -be far from the ruth. When i grain of potassium, which would give by the action of water about i cubical incha and ,'-of hydrogene is made to act upon about half a grain of sulphur, some sulphur sublimies during the comcbination nwhich always takes place with heat and light, and from 'to T1I of a cubical inch of sulphuretted hydrogene is evolved, The compound acted on by muriatic acid, saturated with sulphuretted hydrogene, affords from 9 to of a cubical inch of pure sulphuretted Iydrogene. When more sulphur is used -so as to be fromn tw>ice to ten *tmes the" weight of the potassium, the -q'antity of sulphu, SuIp7i ur and P hos rus. Ant retted hydrogene evolved by the action of the acid, is 505n 7 to E but if heat be applied to thi corbinatiao0 so s to drive off the superfluous sulphur, the quantity of gas collected; is very little inferior to that produced from the combination in which a small proportion of sulphur is used; and I am incluned to believe, from the phenomena ptresened in a great number of experiments, that sulphur and potassium, when heated together under commllon circumstances, combine only in one proportion, in which the metal is to the sulphur nearly as 3 to i in weigbht; and in which the quantities are such that the compound burns into neutral sulphate of potash. When a grain of potassium is made to act upon about L.i cubical inches of sulphuretted hydrogene, all the hydrogene Is set free, and a sulphuret of potassium containing one fourth of sulphur is formed, exactly the same as that produced by the immediate combination of sulphur and the metal. When sulpIthuretted hydrogene is employed in larger quantitles, there is an absorption of this gas, and a volume is taken up about equal to the quantity of hydrogene disengaged and a compound of sul phuretted hydrogene and sulphuret of potash is formed, which gives sulphuretted hydrogene by the action of an acid,, nearly double in quantity to that given by the sulphuret of potasilum,. From a number of experiments I am inclined to believe that potassium and phosphorus, in whatever quantities they are heated together, combine only in one proportion, a grain of potassium requiring about 3 of a grain of phosphorus to form a phosphuret; which when acted upon by muriatic acid, produces from -so to 4" of a cubical inch of phosphuretted hydrogene. MDCCCXb L I 254 i*Mr DAVY'S Researci es 0oi Half a grain of potassium decomposes nearly three cubical inches of phosphuretted hydrogene, and sets free rather more than four cubical inches of hydrogene; and the phosphuret formed see5rs I.o be of the same kind as that produced by direct comb nation of the metal with phosphorus. If', accordn -to Mr. DALTONS ideas of proportion, the quantity in which silphur enters into its combinations were to be deduced fromn its upnon Witi potassium, in which it seems to foru about the veight of thle coinpound, the number reprE nXting it would4 be 13.5. 1 have lately weighed sulphuretted hydrogene, and sulphureous acid gas, with great care: the specfic gravity of the first at mean temperature and pre sure, from my experiments, is o645, which differs very little from the estimation of Mr. KIRWAN : that of sulphureous acid gas I find is 2o967. Sulphuretted hydrogene, as II have shown, contains an equal volume of hydrogene; and on this datum the number representing sulphur is 13.. I have never be"n able to burn sulphur 'in oxygene without forming sulb phuric acid in small quantities; but in several perimex-ts I have obtained from. 92 to 98 parts of sulphareous acid from loo of oxygene in volumer; frorn which I am inclined to believe, that sulphureous acid consists of sulphur dissolved in an equal voluIre of oxygene ; whicli would give -the number as 13.7%nearly, considering the acid gas a9 containing i pro The estimation from the composition of sulphuretted hydrogene, must be considered as most accurate, and that from. the formation of the sulphuret of potassium as least accurate: fr it was only by combining sulphur and potassium in small proportions, and ascertaining in what cases uncombined su.lphur could be distilled -from the compound, that I gained my conclusioals concerning the composition of the sulphuret of potassium. In the last Bakean lecture, I have estimated the specific gravity of sulphuretted Sulphur and I zospiorus. 255 portion of sulphur, and P of oxygene; and these estimation do not differ from each other materiaIly. I have made several experiments on the com-bustion of phosphorus in oxygene gas. From the most accurate, I am inclined to conclude that 25 of phosphorus absorb in combustion about 94 of oxygene in weight; and considering phosphoric acid as composed of 3 proportions of oxygene and X of phosphorus, the number representing phosphorus will be about 16.5, wtkich is not very remote rrom the number that mlay be deduced from t me composition of phosphoret of potassium. Tche numbers which represent the proportions in which sulphur and phosphorus unite with other bodies, are such, as do not exclude the existence of combined portions of oxygene and hydrogene in their constitution ; but it may be questioned, whether the opinion which I formed, that the inflammable gas disengaged from them by electricity, is necessary to the peculiar form in which these bodies exist, is not erroneous. Phosphorus, as I have stated in the last Baker'an lecture, is capable of forming a solid hydruret : and a pat t of the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites, is usually of a soft consistence, and emits the smell of sulphuretted hydrogene, and probably contains that body. It is not unlikely, that in all cases, phosphorus and sulphur contain small quantities of the hyid?rurets of phost phorus and sulphur; and the production of a m inute portion of sulphuric acid in the slow combustion of sulphur, is pro, bydrogene at 35 grains, the Ioo cubical inches, which was riot far from the means between the estimations of Mr. KIRWA N and Mr. TtirE NTA R D. According to this last experiment, sulphuretted hydrogene is composed of X proportion of hydrogene. represented by I, and I of sulphur represented by 3e+ L1 I 6S Mr. DAVY'S Researches 0on bably connected with the production of water. Though the pure oxides of sulphur and phosphorus have never been obtained, yet from the doctrine of definite proportions, these bodies ought under c rtain circumstances, to Jr formed. And I am inclined to believe, that they sometimes exist in Minute quantities, in common phosphorus and sulphur, and with hydrogene, give to them their variable properties. The colours of, different specimens of phosphorus, as well as of sulphur, difflr considerably; the red colour of phosphorus as it iS commonly prepared, is probably owing to a slight mixture of oxide. Common roll sulphur is of a very pale yellow, the Sicilian sulphur of an orange colour, and the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo, which arose in the last period of the process, of a pale yellow ish green colour. All the late experiments thlat I have made, as well as my former researches, induce me io suspect a notable proportion of oxygene in Sicilian sulphur, whikch is probably owing to the presence of oxide of sulphur, Nwhich may give rise to sul. Phauric acid in distillation, or to sulphuric acid itseh. Conceivi n that if efinite proportiols of oxygene and hydrogene existed in sUlphur and pUosphorus, they ought to be manikfsted in tMe agency of oxymuriatic acid gas on these bo'ie s I nmade some experimments o n the results of these operalorls. In the first t rial, on the coimbination of sulphur with oxyinuriati4 acid gas, I enpl-oyed 5 grains of roll sulphuir, nd, t-dmitted th gas into the exhausted retort, from a vessel in vhich it had been in contact with vari 0vwater in this case more than a half a cubical i-ch of oxygene gas, and nearly two culical inches of muriatic acid gas., wevre produced. s usps Z-I n t r K . e tkeat aqu .os vapouir had been Sulphur and P osphorus. V5 decomposedI employed cold water in the next experiment, ud dried the gas by muriate of lime; in this case, though Sicilian sulphur was used, no oxygene gas was evolved;, and not a half a cubical inch of muriatic acid; the quantity was the same as in the last experiment; and it was found, that between i6 and 17 cubical iuc:hes of oxymuriatic acid gas disappeared ; the whole of the sa lphur was sublirred in the gas, and the liquor fori ed, was of a tawney orange colour. No oxygene was expelled during the combustion, of phos phorus in oxymuriatifo acid ras nor could I ascertain that any muriatic acid had been formed; 3 grains of phosp orus were entirely converted into sublimate, by the absorption of about 23 cubical inches and a half of the gas. It wo uld seem froim these 'quantities, that the sulphuretted ,I ior formed by subliming suliphur in oxymuriatic acid gas, consists o-f proportion of sulph4ur, represented by a, nd i oioxymnuriatic gz~s represented by 32f9, and that the piiosPboric sublimate must be composed of 9 portions of oxymuriatic gas,representedby 8.7, and i of phosphorus represented by i 6.e5 