A Relation of a Monstrous Birth, made by Dr. S. Morris of Petworth in Suffex, from his own observation: and by him sent to Dr. Charles Goodall of London; both of the Colledge of Physicians, London. AT Petworth, Decemb. 20. 1677. one Joan Peto, a Butchers Wife, after most acute pains was by her Midwife delivered of a monstrous Female Birth. It had two Heads Both the Faces very well shap'd. The left Face looked Swarthy: and never breathed. And the left Head was the bigger; and stayed longer in the Bearing. The right Head was perceived to breath; but not heard to cry. Betwixt the Heads was a protuberance, like another Shoulder. The Breast (and Clavicles) very large; about seven Inches broad. But two Hands. And but two Feet. ~ hath a Figure answerable to this Description, excepting the Protuberance above-said. As to the Inwards: the Brain, in each Head, was very large. The Spina Dorsi, from the Neck to the Loyns, was double. There were also two Hearts, one on each side the Thorax. The left Heart the bigger. And two pair of Lungs; one infolding each Heart. Those in the left side were blackish; the other looked well. The Mediastinum parted the two Hearts one from the other. The Aorta and Vena Cava, below the Diaphragm, single: the Diaphragm having only three perforations, as is usual. But a little above it they were each divided into two Branches, distributed to the two Hearts in the figure of a 6 L Greek (962) Greek Y. The Oesophagus, in like manner, a little above the Diaphragm, scil. about the fifth Vertebrae was divided into two Branches, one ascending up into each Throat. There were also two Stomachs or Ventriculi. One shaped, as in a Natural Birth. The other, a kind of great Bag, bigger than the Natural Ventricle. In which respect it answered to the Panch in a Cow or Sheep: but, in regard of its place, rather to the Reticulus, or else to the Abomasum; being at the one Orifice continuous with the true Pylorus, and at the other with the Duodenum. Within it was contain'd a substance like Meconium, as is usual in Children newly born. The Liver, but one; but very great: and the Cystis ~ proportionable. The Spleen also, one; but large. So were the Intestines; and all the parts of the lower Ventricle; especially the left Kidney. The Uterus of an usual bigness; but the Clitoris large. The Secundine extraordinary great, weighing about eight pounds. An 