: 266 2XIX. Experiments and Observations made with the Doubler og Electricity, with a view ta deterPline its real Utility, in the investigation of the Electricity of atmospheric Air, tn d{erent degrees of Purity. By Mr. John Read. Cornmunicated by Richard Henry Alexander Bennet, Esq. F. R. St Read May 1S, yg4. IT is scarcely necessary to observe, tllat having relYloved the uncertainty respectillg the electrical action of this cllrious irlstrument, by demonstratillg (after much care and pains, as is particularly expressed in my tract on Spontaneous Electricity) that the electricity of the doubler is alone d@rived frozn the common electrified aqueous vapour sllspended in the air X I -shall, without aniy further explanation, beg leave here to express my thoughts in terms accordgng to that demonstra-tion When I employ the doubler to ila-vestigate atmosphericelectricity, I use it with its revolving plate ullinsulated, when opposite to tllat fixed plate whicll is insulated } because, wit}z respect to illsulation, that position of the doubler exactly corresponds to the insulated and uninsulated parts of my high! pointed rod, arld of course their electrical accumulatiorl will alsvays be-of the same kind in all weak electrifications of the atmosphere. To avoid repetition, permit me here also to mention, that care has been always taken to clear the doubler Mru READ?S ExperimenZs and Observations, &G.267z3f its former electric charge, before I proceeded to accumulate another. Some observations which I made some time ago, induced me to suspect that air, by being vitiated even in a small degree in various ways, as by respiration, putrefaction, &c. lost a portion of its natural electricity, and became thereby electrified negatively: the following facts seem to substantiate this suppositione The room I usually inhabit being of small dimensions, is on that account more liable to suIaer a change in the electrical state of its air than a larger one, and having been often struck with the constancy of the doubler charging llegatively in it, whereas in the open air, and often in the adjoining room, which is larger, the doubler would give positive electricity; I saw nothing to occasion this diffierence between the two rooms besides what could be attributed to the respiration and to the usual effluvium of my body. I was therefore curious to try on the gth of July, w79g, whether a change could be effected in the elec,trical state of the air in the large room by the same means. The weather being very hot and serene, therm. 75°, I tnvited a second person to sit witll me in this room durillg the space of 20 or go millutes, with the door and windows close shut up; I placed myself nearly in the middle, and my companion at the side of the rootn. At the eIld of 20 millUteS,I \vAS ill a profuse perspiration, which accordilag to my ideas must promote the business in hand, I therefore worked the doubler, and fourld the experiment to succeed agreeably to my expectation, as it now gave negative electricity. Suspecting that similar effects must take place during sleep in my bed-room, which is on the north side of the housen I Mm 2 268Mr. READ'S Experiments and Obseraatzonsexamined the electric state of the air both within aIld withollt the bed-room a little before I went to rest, and found it posiO tive by the doubler. I arose at six o'clock next morning, and workedthedoubler, atnd it quickly became electri<fied negatively. But as it often happens, in completing one discovery we gelt an imperfect knowledge of others, I was surprised to observe, by the action of the doubler, to what a great degree tlle air in the room was deprived of its insulating quality for althollgh the doubler acculnulated electricity in every revolution strong enough to enable me to ascertaill its kind, yet its electric charge was corlducted away almost as quickly as obtained. With a view to deteranille what happens in the upper part of the house, I went up into the garrer, and found it close shut up, and the air within it was excessively hot, and in some de gree nQxiolls; therm. 80°. After a very few turns of the revolving plate, the doubler became electrified negatively: I immediately set the door and willdows wide open, and anot}ler door BJhich opens over a bQw windosY, to let in fresh air ; but tlle wind blowing moderately strong from the east, alld the bow vwilldow door being at the north end, atld the windows at the south elld of the garret, made it unfavourable for an east wind to driere through it, tllereeore its electric state remained; the same inkinel a-ftelx they had been opelaed, as wllen shut; for I examilled: it at several intervals of time: yet tlle state s3f the air becamethereby cotlsiderably l)etter to\ breathe in, These facts will apear still more extraordinartJ, when we consider that the generalx state of atmospheric electricity at the time of performing these experixnents was of the pos sitive kind, as appeared by the doubler when placed on tEe wood hand-rail of tlle bow window, which is only tllree made with tbe Doxbler of Electricity. 269 feet and six inches out of the garret. Had the direction of the wind been north or south, it would have passed through the garret with force, and would, no doubt, have changed by re gular gradation-its electricity to positilre; a fact that I have often observed to succeed very quickly. I likewise observced, that when the excessive heat of the sun was -full upon any other xootn in my house, it was capable of effecting a clsange in their electrical state, excepting in those wlli(^h swe e under ground; for in the two kitchens, open area, and coal-valllt, tlle doubler became electrified positirlely, in the two Xrmer rooms speedily, but in the tsvo latter, that lay more to the sun, slowly. I hase observed before, that the air in the garret was infected with a noxious exhalation, hich I now judge came from tlle tearing apparel laid up in it: whereas tlle air in the kitchens was not only much cooler, but perfectly clear of a11 offensive exlzlalations. LIowever, on the zyth of July, the two kitchens svere wlaite-washed and painted, and of cou-rse were filled with a llOXiOUS effluvium. The day after, 1nvorked tlle doubler in tl-te kitchensy and by a very few turns of the revolvillg plate it gave negative electricity. Knightsbridge charity-school fills up a piece of ground bet^veen the north end of the chapel alld ISyde-Park wall; and the main sesver of that rleighbourhood runs at no great depth under it; the numberof cliildren educated in this school is t-houglat by some to be too great for the size of the school , on these accounts it becomes illfected with a very disagretable stencll, especially Vilell the door and winclows are shut up I have sometitnes found the noxious effluviuln so very strong in this school, that 1 have hastened out to breathe a purer air. I harre oftell e>samined the electrical state of the air in thi$ Mr. READ'S E.xperiments an-diObservations27oschool with the doublerfi atxd have always found it strongly negative; which shewed that the aqueous or other conducting matter lodged in the air of the school, possessed less than their natural quantity of electricity; while that of the schoolmastervs }arlour adjoilling, havingnobodyin it, possessed somewhat more than its natural quantity,, it was found therefore positively electrified. July sth, therlu. 76°, I went to the scllool, and found the door and witldows set wide open to let in cool air; I n3w perceived no stench at all in the scllool, alad tlaought it needless to try it. However the schoolmaster observed that the further end of the school was at all times most infected with, and seldom quite clear of stellch. I therefolte svorked the dou13ler sn that part of it, and after a very few turns it becatne electrified negatively, ratller against my expectatione I then tried the other end of tlle scllool, wllich, by the door being wide open, was less liable to retain any noxious effluvsum, axld there the doubler g;ave pos tive electric ty. After this I tried it ill the schoolmasterts parlour, svllere it svas pUsitive also. 3uly goth, I had t1le curiosity to examine with the doubler the electri-cal state of the air in tlle ward.s ol:tlle Lock Hospital. In the tsvo small men's >-ar s it vvas found negatis1e in every part. The floor of the large or long ward had beetl waslled, and the boards vere still wet; tlle windows in the east side, and the large orae in the snuth etad, were all open; tllerefore there was but very little oSensive smell in the south end of this ward, and here the doubler became electrified positively: but the great window in the nortll end of tl-lis svard being close shut up, caused a sensible closeness itl tlqe air, accompanied with a slight smell; alld in tllis end of the ward the doubler made zvzth the Doubler of Electrtczty.271gave negative electricity. The door and all the windows in the women's long ward were set wide open; the open windows at each end of this ward being llearly in the direction of the xvind, gave it a complete passage througll it, of course, the wind blowing at that time witll a brisk gale, ventilated tlli.s ward completely, for there was llo ofEensive smell in it, however, I tried the state of the air in several parts of it with the doubler, in all of which it gave positive electricity, the same as it would have done ill the operl air oll the outside of the building. December 6th, I observed in the gardela a heap of the loppings and leaves of shrubs, in a state of putrefactiotl, which ilzsluced me to examine tlaeir volatile effluviutn with the doubler, which I placed upon the lleap, and on working it, it became possessed of a weak laegative electricity; for it required more than thirty turns of the revolving plate to effect a goocl charge, whereas in the privy (whicll is at a stnall distance from the heap olileaves) the doubler became strongly charged with less than half tlat lUotnber of turtls, and with tlle same kind of electricity. This, iadeed, I expected would have been the case becallse I have alsvays obse-rved the doubler to give negative electricity ii1 a privy, but that the rotten leaves should be able to maintain that electric state in the open air, is truly woncl:erful, wherl it is considered tllat the surrotlnding atrnospherical electricwity was of the positive kind, and rather strongly so, both by the doubler and the high pointed rod. I am of opinion that I s!lould not have given due attention to this factS if it had not so happenbd that the doubler had not been used for near two weeks before; it was tllerefore evident, that it Mx. READJS Experi*e-Xts-hd Observationsmust llave been holly deprived of every particle of its former charge. The day after this, the h*ap of leaves was laid ope-rl, and every twig and leaf exhibited a covering of white motald; bvit after this, the doubler always gave the sanze kind of electricity when worked on the leaves, as in any otller part of the open air, namely, positive. In order to be fuly satisfied in this lnatter I determ illed to try it 011 a large -dunghill, whence a greater quantity of putrid effluvium must ascend. I also resolved to 1nake the experil1lelat when the air vas sharp and frosty, because then the atmosplleric electricity is not only of the positive kind, but unifortnly the same in all places, -from the surface of ancontaminated eartll to any height ^^re Ca11 gO. The weather on the first day of January, s794, was qllite such as I desired for this business, that is, it was frosty, and accompanied witll a very slight dry fog, therm. 31°. I colljectured tllat M. TATTERSALL (a dealer in horses in my neighbourhood) might be possessed of a large dunghill; I therefore went to his house, and was takgn into his garden, where there was a great quatatity of it. I first went upon the highest part of the dunghill, and 1leld the doubler in olle hand a little above the dung, yet within the reach of the ascending pale coloured vapour, and with the other I turned therevolving plate fi^re or six times, by which means the doubler became electrified positively; which was known to be at that time the general electrical state of the atmospllere. T}e doubler svas now lowered, and pl-aced upon the dung; alld-here also it became charged by a few turnG of tlae revolving plate, which made me suspect tlat I had not cOmpletely cleared the doubler made with the D?ubler Qf Electricity.273of its former charge; however, on trial it was found to be electrified negatively. This remarkable fact fully satisfied me that I had not deceived myself in the first experiment on the heap of leaves above mentioned. I repeated these experimentsf wth the doubler placed on various parts of the durlgllill, vvithout any remarkable variation in the results, except that the negative state of the exhaled vapour was strconger, and extended to a greater distance, in the depressed or hollow parts of the-dung, where the vapour was less exposed to a moderate gale of wind that then prevailed, than on tlie open parts svhich lay full to it. I have reason to be of opinion, tllat tlle negative state of the vapour on the windward side of the dung did not reach so high as the revolving plate of the doubler when turned up, so that ill every revolution it must pass through electrifiect and neutral vapour, whicll reqllired in those situations from thirty to forty revoItltions to obtain a small charge. From this circumstance r am inclined to think that if a doubler were made of very small dimensiolas, and placed in the neutral space between the two electric powers, it srrould be impossible to accumulate with it any spontaneous electricity. I was solicited to try the state of the air ln the hot-house with the doubIer, to whicll I very readily consented. I found the air ill it agreeably warm, allcl full of moisture, which was condensed on the glass roof, and fell down in large drops. The doubler also, having been long ex:posed in frosty air, quickly attracted and condensed the humid particles upon itself, so as to form a coating on all its parts. I therefore hastened to make the experiment, yet under all these unfavourable circumstances the doubler became electrified negatively after about MDCCXCIVe N 11 ey« Mr. READ9S Experzoments and Observations, &cB{ourteen revolations. As I perceived no smell in this close hothbuse, I am inclined to attribute the negative electric state of the vapour to the heat of the fire and vigollr of the plants, which possibly xuay absorb the fluid faster than it could get in through ttle floor, which is renderod Yery dry by flues that lie on three sides of it. Without even attempting to consider in this place how far the influence of electricity is concerned irl all sorts of ritiated air, it will be sufficient to remark, as it clearly follows from tlle preceding experiments, that air infected with anilnal respiration, or vegetable putrefactiorl, is always electrified negatively, when at the same time the surroullding atmosphere is electrified positivelZrc 