(2216) An Intimation of divers Philosophical particulars, now undertaken and consider'd by several Ingenious and Learned men; here inserted to excite others to joyn with them in the same or the like Attempts and Observations. FIrst, we have notice given us, that at Paris the Excellent Signior Cassini hath lately detected again Spots in the Sun, of which none have been seen these many years, that we know of. 'Tis hoped that that learned Astronomer will shortly publish a Description of what he shall have observed of this kind. Mean time we cannot but acquaint the Curious, that,as far as we can learn, the last observation in England of any Solar Spots, was made by our Noble Philosopher Mr. Boyl, vvho, upon an occasional discourse of this Subject, vvas pleased to communicate vvhat he had observed of this kind, as he found it registred in his Notes, viz. Friday, April 27. 1660. about 8 of the clock in the Morning, there appear'd a Spot in the lower limb of the Sun a little towards the South of its AEquator, which was entred about 1/40 of the Diameter of the Sun, it self being about 1/160 in its shortest Diameter,of that of the Sun; its longest, about 1/40 of the same. It disappear'd upon Wednesday Morning (May 9th) though we saw it the day before about 10 in the morning to be near about the same distance from the West ward limb a little South of its aequator, that it first appear'd to be from the East-ward-limb, a little South also of its aequator, It seem'd to move faster in the middle of the Sun than towards the limb. It was a very dark spot almost of a quadrangular form, and was enclosed round with a kind of duskish cloud, much in this form and in this proportion to the Spot. We (2217) We first observ'd this very same Spot both for figure,colour and bulk, to be re-enter'd the Sun May 25th, when it seem'd to be in a part of the same line it had formerly traced; and was enter'd about 4/33 of its Diameter about 7 of the clock in the afternoon. At the same time there appear'd another Spot, which was just entred and appear'd to be entred not above 1/132 part of the Sun's diameter. It appear'd to be longest towards the North and South,and shortest towards the East and West. There seem'd to be dispers'd about it divers small clouds here and there. These Observations vvere made, as the Noble Observer told us, vvith an excellent Telescope, in the presence of divers Curious and Ingenious persons, one of vvhom was Mr. Hook. And discoursing of the thoughts he had entertain'd touching the Effects of such Spots, he suggested this Inquiry, Whether they might not cause a considerable alteration both in the Body of the Sun it self, and in our Air and the Bodies in it upon their dissipation? Secondly, vve understand, that at Paris the Royal Observatory, now a building for making Celestial Discoveries, is very far advanced, and will shortly be in a condition to be employed for the use intended; whence vve may expect a considerable advancement of the Astronomical Science. In the same Edifice, vvhich the said Observatory maketh a part of, we are inform'd that there is, besides many other rooms fit for Philosophical uses and purposes, a very deep Cave, having an hundred threescore and ten steps of descent; wherein many sorts of Experiments are intended to be made, being of that nature, that they require to be remote from the Sun-beams and the open Air; such as are Thermometrical ones, and such as concern Refrigerations, Coagulations, Indurations, and Conservations of Bodies, and a thousand things more. Thirdly, vve hear, that the Learned Monsieur Mariotte is publishing two very desirable Discourses,the one of Vision; upon vvhich subject he hath discovered something new and considerable: the other of the Art of Levelling, vvherein he delivers many remarkable particulars about Refraction, and the Errors, that may, upon the account thereof, K k k 2 be (2218) be imposed upon men; together with several New Instruments of Levelling exactly. Fourthly, vve find by Letters out of Germany, that the learn'd Physitian Dr. Kornmannus, is printing a Book concerning the Tinctures or Essences of the Excretions of Infects, which having fed upon several herbs and flowers, yield such dungs, vvherein the tincture, colour and vertue of these vegetables are to be found: Thus for example, he can extract a curiously red tincture out of Excrements of Worms that have fed upon Roses, &c. Fifthly, vve find by Letters out of Italy, that a very Ingenious person there, upon the consideration of what hath been lately intimated touching certain Experiments for finding out, whether there be a Circulation of Sap in Trees, resembling that of Bloud in Animals; Offers it to the consideration of Naturalists, Whether it be likely to find a place in Vegetables, whence the Sap may part, and whither it may return,such as is the Heart in Animals; adding, that whereas Vegetables are alwayes to put forth new branches, leaves, &c. it seems to be sufficient for them,that there be a continual and plentiful course and supply of Juyce, to thrust out every way, without any necessity of such a Circulation. Sixthly, whereas it hath been more than once mention'd in these Papers; * Mulierum testes esse Ovario analogos; nec tantum in nuptis & facundis Mulieribus, sed etiam in Virginibus esse Ovavera, &c. We cannot but signifie here, for further inquiry, that there hath been very lately made by two Physitians at Paris a dissection of a Cow, in cujus testiculis ova reperta fuerint, uti Kerkringius observasse se scripserat in Anthropogeniae suae Iehnographia; and that there they intend to pursue this Inquiry, inviting others to make the same research. Wherein since the learned Dr. Walter Needham, an English Physitian, and a worthy Fellow of the R. Society, hath heretofore already been conversant to good purpose, it is here publikely wished, that he would make a further progress in the same; plures institu* See Numb. 32. p 628, and Numb. 70. p. 2136. (2219) instituendo dissectiones, catellarum imprimis valde juvenum, &c. ad rei certitudinem majorem. Seaventhly, from Germany we are inform'd, that in the University of Jena in Upper Saxony, one Mr. Weighelins, Professor of the Mathematicks there, hath invented several in genious Instruments and Engins; As first, an Astronomical one, which he calls Astrodicticum, by the means whereof very many persons shall be able at one and the same time to behold one and the same Star. Secondly, An exceeding great Globe of the World, capable of ten persons to fit in it all at once, and to behold the motions of the celestial Bodies, &c. Thirdly, An odd Bridge, or a kind of Stairs, by which a man shall descend and yet really be raised upward, and going as 'twere upon a plain shall,from a lower, by gently subsiding, arrive to an upper story,&c. Of these and other particulars, said to be in part already done, and in part design'd by the said Mathematician, we hope we shall in time obtain a more satisfactory accompt. 