(11) Extracts of two Letters, written to the Publisher from Hamborough by the Learned Christophorus Sandius, concerning the Origin of Pearls. The first is of Decemb. 15. 1673. thus English't; TOuching the Origin of Pearls, of which I formerly gave an intimation, be pleased to receive this account. The Pearl-shells in Norway and elsewhere do breed in Sweet waters. Their shells are like to those, which commonly are called Muscles, but they are larger. The fish in them looks like an Oister, and it produceth a great cluster of Eggs, like those of cra-fishes, some white, some black (which latter yet will become white, the outer black coat being taken off;) These Eggs, when ripe, are cast out, and being cast out they grow, and become like those that cast them. But sometimes it happens, that one or two of those Eggs stick fast to the sides of the matrix, and are not voided with the rest. These are fed by the Oister against her will, and they do grow, according to the length of time, into pearls of different bignesses, and imprint a mark both in the fish and shell, by the scituation conform to its figure. So far the first Letter; The matter of which being new, but destitute of proof, the Publisher took the liberty of desiring from the Author the favour of imparting to him what ground he had for this assertion: Whereupon was returned this second Letter, dated Febr. 27. 1674; viz. AS to the authority, I have to assert such an origin of Pearls, as I have done in my former; I here declare, that a certain Dane, called Henricus Arnoldi, an ingenuous and veracious person, having by his own Experience found it so at Christiana in Norway, did in that manner relate it to me, as I imparted it to you, he having with great seriousness assured me of the truth thereof. Besides, the thing seems highly probable, neither do any considerable objections appear against it. If I should chance to go into those parts, or at least into the Country of the Dukes of Brunswick, where also Pearls are found B 2 not (12) not inferior to the oriental ones of the same size, I should not fail to endeavour to make the observation myself. An Accompt of some Books. 