Side. I am credibly informed of a Pannel of Wainscot in the City being wrenched out of the Groove, and not returning into it again. XXIII. The Rev. H. Miles, D. D. & F.R.S. to the President, containing some additional Observations to his former Accounts *. S I R, IT having been commonly reported, that there was much Lightning on the Morning, and about the Time when the Earthquake happened on the 8th of this Instant, I was induced to get what Information I could of the Truth of it, in this Neighbourhood. If you shall <inferred>judge</inferred> * See this Trans. p. 619 and 629. Read March 22. 1750. [640] judge the Result of my Inquiry may be satisfactory to any of this honourable Society, I submit it to be communicated; and am Tooting, March 22, Your and the Royal Society's 1749-50. most obedient and most humble Servant, H. Miles. A P E R S O N who went into an open Cart at 4 o' Clock that Morning at Mitcham, for London, saw no Appearance of Lightning at all. Several other Persons, who were abroad, going to Work, some time before the Earthquake happen'd, declare that they saw none; nor were they sensible of any Noise, or Motion in the Earth. I got Inquiry to be made of the Watchmen, who belong to the Callico-Printers, and watch all Night in the Grounds, and received this Answer from one, that he neither saw any Lightning, nor heard any Noise, and had no Perception of an Earthquake; and from another, who watched in other Grounds, a Mile or more distant from the first-mention'd, that he saw no Lightning all that Night; but says, that he heard an unusual Noise about the Time in which the Earthquake is said to have happen'd; but this it seems was not so remarkable as to have caused him to take notice of it to any one, had he not afterwards been told there was an Earthquake. I have [641] I have, besides this, made Inquiry of various Persons, and cannot meet with one, who did see any Lightning, or who heard others say that they had seen it. P. S. I am credibly informed, that a Gentleman's Servant at Wandsworth was watering his Master's Horse by the River-Side, at the time when the Earthquake happened, who found the Water so much agitated on a sudden, that the Horse started back, and would not drink. XXIV. 