[33] IV. An Account of a Portrait of Copernicus, presented to the Royal Society by Dr. Wolf of Dantzick: extracted from a Letter of his to Mr. Magellan, F.R.S. Dantzick, DEAR SIR; April 7, 1776. THE captain who will deliver this to you, will also put into your hands a copy of an original portrait of the famous COPERNICUS, which I beg you will present to the Royal Society, as a testimony of my devotion and attachment to that respectable body. The original, from which it is copied with the greatest accuracy, is in the possession of the Chamberlain HUSSARZEWSKI, Read Dec. 7, 1776. Avis touchant un Portrait de Copernic, presente a la Societe Royale, par M. le Dr. Wolf de Danzic: extrait d'une Lettre du dit Dr. a M. de Magellan, Membre de la Soc. R. Monsieur et tres cher ami, Danzic, le 7 Avril, 1776. LE capitaine qui vous delivrera celle-ci, vous apportera en meme tems la copie d'un portrait du fameux COPERNIC, que je vous prie de presenter a votre illustre Societe Royale, comme un temoignage de mon devouement et respect pour cet illustre Corps. Le possesseur de l'original, dont le portrait fut copie avec la plus grand attention est M. le Chambellan HUSSARZEWSKI. Il a VOL. LXVII. F deja 34 Dr. WOLF'S Account of SARZEWSKI, who has already refused one hundred ducats for it, and will not part with it at any rate during his life, but intends to bequeath it me after his death; for which reason there is no probability of my ever possessing it, as he is likely to survive me many years. We have a portrait of COPERNICUS in the great church at Thorn in a kind of mausoleum, erected about thirty years after the death of that great man, by a physician of that town, who is said to have been one of his relations. HARTKNOCH has inserted a print taken from this portrait in his Chronicles of Prussia. Our original has been compared with that of the mausoleum, and the features of the face are found to be perfectly similar, but there is a great difference in the dress. That at Thorn represents him kneeling before an altar, in the attitude of a priest officiating; in ours he is cloathed in fur, with his hair more deja refuse 100 ducats, et ne le cedera pas sa vie durant pour aucum prix: mais il me le veut leguer apres sa morte. C'est a dire tres probablement apres la mienne: de sorte qu'i n'y a rien a esperer de ce cote-ci. Nous avons un portrait de COPERNIC dans la grande Eg~ise de Thorn, dans une espece de mausolee, erige une trentaine d'annees apres la mort de cet homme celebre, par an medecin de la ville, qu'on dit avoir ete un de ses parents. HARTKNOCH a fait graver ce portrait, et l'a insere dans sa Chronique de la Prusse. Notre original a ete compare sur le lieu avec celui du mausolee, et on a trouve les traits du visage absolument les memes: mais l'habillement est tres different. Celui de Thorn le represente devant l'autel en fonction de pretre, Dan~ a Portrait of COPERNICUS. 35 more carefully dressed, and as it were in a habit of ceremony. The painter of it was certainly one of the old Italians, as will appear by comparing it with other works of those masters; for instance, it is known that the painters of those times, and even RAPHAEL, never gave to the eyes that brightness which the most indifferent artists within this century never fail to express in their portraits: not but what the serene and seemingly inanimated countenances of the former artists came nearer to nature than the sparkling eyes which are now all the fashion. This however is a proof that the portrait is at least one hundred and fifty years old; the inscription shews that the painter was an Italian; and it must further be observed, that it is now two centuries since they left off painting on wood. The Dans le notre il est habille en pelisse, avec les cheveux de la tete plus soigneusement arranges et coupes, comme en habit de parade. Le pinceau est surement Italien du vieux tems en question, comme on trouvera en regardant d'autres de ce tems et les comparant avec celui-ei. Par exemple, on sait, que les peintres dans ce vieux tems, meme RAPHAEL, ne savoient pas encore donner aux yeux cette vivacite, que le plus mediocre peintre depuis plus d'un siecle, ne manque pas de donner a ses peintures. Je ne dis pas que les vieux peintres n'approchent pas plus de la nature avec leurs yeux tranquiles sans feu; mais ils deplaisent a notre siecle, qui ne veut que des yeux petillants. Au moins c'est la marque d'une anciennete plus grande qu'un siecle et demi. L'inscription fait voir que le peintre etoit Italien. Il y a deux fiecles qu'on a cesse de peindre sur du bois. F 2 L'histoire 36 Dr. WOLF'S Account of The history of this portrait is as follows. It was formerly in the collection of Saxe Gotha, where it was always considered as an original, which is even said to appear from the archives of that court, and is the more probable, as the prince-bishop of Warmia, who obtained it from the late duke of Saxe Gotha, was too good a connoisseur and too cautious to be deceived in this respect. That bishop being at Gotha in the year 1735, observed this portrait in the gallery of that palace; the proofs that were produced of its authenticity made him very desirous to acquire it. He at length obtained it by a kind of theft which it was necessary to commit on the cathedral of Warmia, in which there was a very old portrait of one of the ancestors of the dukes of Saxe Gotha, who had been bishop of that see, and whose picture was wanting in L'histoire de notre original est la suivante. Il a ete conserve dans la collection des ducs de Saxe Gotha, dans le chateau du meme nom, toujours avoue comme un veritable original: on pretend meme prouve comme tel par le~ archives; ce qui est fort croyable, vu que le prince eveque de Warmie, qui l'a obtenu du duc defunt, etoit trop circonspect et trop bon connoisseur pour s'en laisser imposer. Enfin c'est apres les paroles du prince eveque, que je fais cette assertion. Ce fut environ l'annee 1735 qu' etant a Gotha, il remarqua ce portrait dans la gallerie du duc. Les preuves qu'on lui fit de son authenticite, augmenterent son envie de le posseder. Il l'obtint enfin par un vol qu'il fallut faire a la Cathedrale de Warmie, ou se trouvoit un tres ancien portrait d'un des ancetres du duc de Saxe Gotha, qui etoit jadis eveque de Warmie, et dont le portrait manquoit dans la collection des portraits de sa famille. On fit donc un echange a Portrait of COPERNICUS. 37 in the duke's collection of the portraits of his family. An exchange was accordingly made of the two originals, and the bishop has since bequeathed that of COPERNICUS to his favourite Mr. HUSSARZEWSKI. The copy I herewith send you is very exact in every respect, except that I have glued three wooden lifts on the back of the board to prevent its warping. After my copy was taken, the proprietor of the original thought proper to have it repaired and varnished, and they are now so much alike that it is scarce possible to discern any difference. The name of my painter is LORMAN of Berlin, an artist of some reputation. echange des deux originaux. Le prince eveque GRABOWSKI enfin a laisse celui de COPERNIC a son favori M. HUSSARZEWSKI. La copie est absolument la meme que l'original: excepte que j'ai fait coller trois regles sur le derriere de la table pour empecher son courbissement. Depuis que ma copie a ete tiree, M. HUSSARZEWSKI, croiant bien faire, a fait renouveller son original, c'est a dire, y mettre du vernis: et actuellement il est si bien le meme que la copie, qu'on peut a peine s'appercevoir de la moindre difference. Mon peintre est M. LORMAN de Berlin, assez celebre dans son art. 