An Account of some Books. I. The HISTORY of the ROYAL SOCIETY of LONDON for the Advancement of EXPERIMENTAL Philosophy, by THO. SPRAT. IT was indeed highly sutable, that the History of the Royal Experimenting Society should be dedicated, as the Candid Author of it hath done, to that King, who is the first of all the Kings of Europe, that confirmed this Noble Design of Experiments, both by His own Example, and by a publick Establishment. The Discourse it self, which is modest and elegant, is divided by the Author into these three general Heads: The First gives a short view of the Ancient and Modern Philosophy; and of the most Famous Attempts that have been made for its Advancement, by the Chaldeans, Egyptians, Grecians, Arabians, Romans, of old; and then, by several New waies of Philosophy, in the compass of our memories, and the Age before us, representing what hath been attempted by the Modern Dogmatists, the Revivers of ancient Sects, the late Experimenters, the Chymists, and the Writers of Particular Subjects: All which he deduceth, to the end, that by observing, wherein others have excelled, and wherein they have been thought to fail, he D d d 3 might (502) might the better shew, what is to be expected from these new Undertakers; and what moved them to enter upon a way of Inquiry, different from that, on which the former have proceeded. The Second, consists of the Narrative it self in which the Historian, out of the Registers and Journals of the Royal Society which he hath been permitted to peruses relateth the first Occasi ns of their Meetings, the Encouragement, and Patronage they have received; their Patent, their Statutes, the whole Order and Scheme of their Design the Qualifications of their Members; the Largeness of their Number; their weekly Assemblies; the manner of their inquire: their may of Registring; and their Universal Correspondency; together with a particular Enumeration of the principal subjects, about which they have been employed since they were made a Royal Corporation,and this to silence that importunate demand, What they have done all this while? And here the Historian hopes, that all reasonable men will find satisfaction, when they shall consider, First, That,besides that this Society hath past through the first difficulties of their Charter and Model, and overcome all oppositions, which use to arise against the beginnings of great things; their Aim, and the nature of their Design, and the Extent of their task do admit of no violent and hasty dispatch. Next, That, though their work hath not been exposed to open view, yet their Registers are stored with a good number of Particulars they have taken pains about; As, 1. Queries and Directions, they have given abroad. 2. Proposals and Recommendations, they have made. 3. Relations, they have received. 4. Experiments, they have tried. 5. Observations, they have taken. 6. Instruments, they have invented or advanced. 7. Theories, that have been proposed. 8. Discourses, they have written or published. 9. Histories of Nature, and Arts, and Works, they have collected. The Particulars upon which Heads are more numerous,and of greater moment and variety,than perhaps Detractors and Cavillers imagine or expect: they exceed indeed the number of 700; of which the Experiments and Observations both together amount to above 350; the Relations, to about 150; the Queries, Directions, Recommendations,and Proposals, to above 80;the Instruments,to about 60;the Histories of Nature and Art, to above 50; and the Theories and Discourses to as many. To these he adds an Account of the Library and Repository, they have obtain'd (503) obtain'd by the bounty of two of their Members; and gives withall some Example of their Experiments; Histories both of Nature and Art; Queries answered; Proposals recommended, &c. Which done, he concludeth, That if any shall yet think, they have not usefully employed their time, he shall be apt to suspect, that they understand not, what is meant by a diligent and profitable labouring about Nature; and that such men seem not capable of being satisfied, unless the Gentlemen of this Society immediately prosess to have found out the Squaring of the Circle, or the Philosophers Stone, or some other such mighty Nothings; which only argues the extravagance of the Expectations of such men. Mean time, the Author esteems, that,since the Society promises no Miracles,nor endeavours after them, and since their Progress ought to be equal and firm, by Natural degrees, and thorow small things, as well as great, going on leisurely and warily, it is therefore fit, that they alone,and not others, who refuse to consider the nature of their work, and to partake of their burthen, should be Judges by what steps and what pace they ought to proceed. The Third Part, is asserting both the Advantage and Innocence of this Design, in respect of all Professions, and particularly of Religion; and how proper, above others, it is for the present Temper of the Age, wherein we live: And this is done,to free it from the Cavil of the Idle and Malicious; and from the Jealousies of Private Interests; all which the Author shews to have nothing but Humor, or Envy, Prejudice, or Mistake, to bear themselves upon. The promoting of Experiments, according to the Model of the Royal Society, will be so far from injuring Education, or from being dangerous to the Universities, that it will both introduce many things of greater concernment and benefit to supply the place of what may be laid aside; and be mainly conducive to recover that Divine Dignity of Humane Nature, which consists in the Knowledge of Truth, and the Doing of Good. The First years of Men being secured by this new Experimental way; it is made out to all Professions and Practical lives, that they can receive no ill Impressions from it, but that it will be the most beneficial and proper study for their Preparation and Direction. Whereas other Learning is charged to consist in Arguing and Disputing; and to be apt to make our Minds losty and Romantick; presumptuous and obstinate; averse from a practical Course, and vnable to bear the difficulties of Action; Propense to things, which are no where in use in (504) in the world; and careless of their own present times, by doting on the past: This Experimental Philosophy will turn men to Trials and Works; cure their minds of Romantick swelling, by shewing all things familiarly to them, just as large as they are; free them from perversity, by not permitting them to be too peremptory in their Conclusions: accustome their hands to things, which have a near resemblance to the business of life: and draw away the shadows, which either enlarge or darken humane affairs: And of the Crafty, the Formal, and the Prudent (the usual Titles, by which men of business are wont to be distinguished:) Our Author resembles the Crasty, to the Emperick in Philosophy; the Formal, to the meer Speculative Philosopher; but the Prudent man, to him, who proceeds on a constant and solid course of Experiments: the one in Civil life, rejecting neither the wisdom of Ancient, nor that of Modern times; the other in Philosophy, having the same reverence for former Ages,and regard for the present; both raising their Observations unto Use not suffering them to lie idle, but employing them to direct the actions, and supply the wants of humane life. And as this Experimental way will afford much help to our Publick duties, and Civil actions, so it is proved to be very useful for the Cure of mens Minds, and the management of their private motions and passions,by keeping them from idleness with full and earnest employments, and by possessing them with innocent, various, lasting, and even sensible delights. From hence our Author proceeds to make a defense of the Royal Society, and this new Experimental Learning, in respect of the Christian Faith; fully evincing, that as it is not at all dangerous to Religion in general, so it is not to the Doctrine of the Gospel, nor that of the Primitive Church, or of the Church of England. This done, he declares, on what account the Study of Experiments is the most seasonable study for the present Temper of the English Nation; and then goes on to manifest the probable Effects of Experiments, in respect of all the Manual Trades, which have been heretofore found out and adorned. This Argument he dispatches in a clear Resolution of these Four Questions: 1. Whether the Mechanick Arts are still improvable by humane Industry? 2. If they be, whether they may be advanced by any others, besides, the Mechanick Artists themselves? 3. Whether (505) 3. Whether there be any ground of hope from Experiments towards this Work? 4. Whether, if such Arts shall hereby happen to multiply, they are likely to prejudice those Trades, that are already setled? In these Particulars our Author doth so answer his Readers doubts, that it will easily be granted him, That it is not a vain or impossible Design, to endeavour the increase of Mechanick contrivances; that the enterprise is proper for a Mixt Assembly of Experienced Naturalists and Mathematicians; that the Course which the Royal Society observes towards it, will be effectual; and the Increase of such Operations, inoffensive to others of the same kind, that have been formerly discovered. Hence he proceeds to shew, That these Experiments are a proper study for the Gentlemen of this Nation, in which he finds them already well engaged: As also, that they will be beneficial to our Wits and Writers, who, if truly worthy men, will find in the works of Nature an inexhaustible Treasure for Fancy and Invention, which will be disclosed proportionably to the increase of their knowledge: Further, that they are advantageous to the Interest of the Nation, by enlarging the Trade and Power thereof. Upon which and several other accounts (not possible to be contracted here) our Historian concludes his Discourse, with giving us a Catalogue of those, which at this present compose the Royal Society, amounting to near two hundred; whereof the Kings Majesty is Founder and Patron. Among the Fellows are three of the Greatest Prinees of Europe, his Royal Highness the Duke of York; his Highness Prince Rupert, Count Palatine of the Rhine; and his Highness Ferdinand Albert, Duke of Brunswick and Lunenburg: then, the two Archbishops of England, and four Bishops; of Dukes, Marquesses, Earls, Viscount, and Barons, English and Scotch, twenty nine; of Knights, thirty five; of Doctors and Batchellors of Divinity, fourteen; of Doctors and Candidates of Physick, twenty one; of Esquires, and other Gentlemen, and Merchants, sixty four; of strangers, sixteen. After the Enumeration of which, he recommends this Undertaking to the English Nation; to the bravest people, the most generous Design, which at once regards the discovering of New secrets, and the Purifying and Repairing all the profitable things of Antiquity: and here he represents, that if now this Enterprise should chance to fail for want of Patronage and Revenue, the World would not only be frustrated of Eee their (506) their present Expectations, but have just ground to despair of any future Labours, towards the increase of Practical and Useful knowledge. But he hopes and presages, that the English Nation will lay hold on this opportunity, to deserve the Applause of Mankind for having encouraged and supported a Work, which, instead of barren Terms and Notions, is able to impart to us the Uses of all the Creatures, and to enrich us with all the Benefits of Real Knowledge, true Honour, great Plenty, and solid Delight. II. DISQUISITIO ANATOMICA DE FORMATO F OE T U: Authore Gualtero Needham, M. D. Londini, in 8~ THis Disquisition consists of seven Chapters, full of the Learned and Ingenious Author, who was lately elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, his own Experiments and Observations. In the first he inquires into the Passages, by which the Nourishing Juyce is conveighed into the Womb of the Animal: where he examines the Assertion of Everhard, importing, that some of the Lacteous Vessels carry the said Juyce to the Uterus; which vessels are pretended to have been seen by himself in the dissection of Rabbets. Which engaged our Author to take up again the Anatomical knife, and to diffect with all possible accurateness both some of the bigger Animals, as Cows and Mares, and some of the smaller kind, as Rabbets, which are instanced by Everhard. But having spent all his labour and care herein in vain, and besides, evinced by Ligatures, that the pretended Vessels are neither those that are described by Bartho'n under the name of Lymphatick, nor others, presumed to be known by Everhard alone, as immediately carrying the Chyle out of its Receptacle to the Womb and Breasts; he imputes the cause of this mistake to the Trunk of the Lymphaticks, running over the Vena cava into the Receptacle near the Emulgents, which Ductus he affirms to have often found filled with Chyle from the Intestinum Rectum, or the ileum or Cacum a Dog having no Colon;) but maintains withall, that by Ligatures it is manifest, that that Ductus goes to the Receptacle, and there deposites its liquor; which he proves to be alike true of all the Milky vessels, so that they carry nothing back and consequently are unfit to conveigh any thing to the Womb. This he illustrates by a Noble Experiment of that Learned and Export Anatomist, Dr. Lower, using to open sometimes the right side of the Thorax, and (507) and with his fingers to break the Receptacle; and sometimes on the left side the Ductus Thoracicus, a little under the Subelaviar; whereby it hath come to pass, that Dogs, well fed all the while, have thrown out all the Chyle into the opened part of the Thorax, and, though plentifully fed, were starved within three daies: there appearing mean time in the Veins opened a crass bloud, destitute of Serum, but not any mixture of transmitted Chyle. Having rejected the Lacteous aud Lymphatick vessels from this office, he declareth, that we must rest in the Ancient Doctrine, which layeth the task of conveighing the Succus nutritius, to the Breasts and Womb, upon the Arteries; unless the Nerves be call'd in for aid, for conveighing some of the Spirituous Juyce, to be mixed with the Nutritious, to give life and vigour; And having proved this, he takes notice of the Anastomoses, remarkable in the womb of pregnant Creatures; and subjoyns a discussion of the way how the Alimental Juyce is in the womb severed from the mass of the bloud: whether by meer Percolation, or by some Ferment, working upon the Bloud, and thence precipitating what is proper for the use of that part. In the Second Chapter he treats of the Placenta's and Glandules, and shews, How many waies the Juyce is derived from the Womb to the Faetus: First, simply from the Membrane of the Uterus to the Membrane of the Faetus; as in all Oviparous Creatures; and among Viviparous, in a Sow all the time of her bearing; in a Mare, for half the time; and in a Woman, the first month only. Secondly, by a Mass of flesh, filtring the Juyce; as in all Cake-bearing (called by the Latines, Placentifera) and in all Kernel-bearing (called Glandulifera)Or Ruminating Animals. Where he giveth a particular account of the double Placenta or Cake, to be found in Rabbets, Hares, Mice, Moles, &c. and examines the learned Dr. Whartons Doctrine, assigning a double Placenta to at least all Viviparous Animals, so as one half of it belongs to the Uteras, the other to the Chorion: shewing how far this is true, and declaring the variety of these Phaenomena, together with a very ingenious assignation of the Cause of that variety. Where do occur many uncommon Observations concerning the difference of Milk in ruminating and other Animals; the various degrees of thickness of the Uterin liquor in Oviparous and Viviparous creatures; the property of the humour, turning into Eggs, with a hint of the cause of their being excluded, and not quickned and formed within; as also, of the cause of Moles in the womb, and of many kernelly and fleshy substanEee2 ces (508) ces in other parts of the body: where he takes notice of a concretion seen by himself grown to the Cone of the Heart, of nine ounces weight in an healthy Body, that died of a violent death; and of the like adhering to the Spleen, Kidneys, Liver, without any perceived trouble to the Animal; yea, of some found within the heart it self. He adds the Number, Shape, and Use of these Placenta's; and first observes that those that are Kernel-bearing Animals, or chewing the Cud, have many, and those that are Cake-bearing, have for the most part, one Cake for each Faetus; but a woman commonly but one, though she happen to have many Embryo's. He annexes a particular description of the Placenta of a Woman, as the most considerable, and teaches, how it may be most conveniently severed from the Vessels, to render them conspicuous, which are a numerous off-spring of Arteries, Veins, and Fibres; of the last whereof he inquires, whether they be the capillaries of the Arteries, and Veins, or nervous. The Shape of that in a Woman is Orbicular, about a foot large, and two inches thick; one of its Superficies's, convex, but uneven, the other concave, and every where sticking close to the Chorion. The Use of the Placenta's is known to be, to serve for conveighing the aliment to the Faetus. The difficulty is only about the manner. Here are examined three opinions, of Curvey, Everhard, and Harvey. The two former do hold, that the Faetus is nourished only from the Amnion by the Mouth; yet with this difference, that Curvey will have it fed by the Mouth when it is perfect, but, whilst it is yet imperfect, by filtration only through the pores of the body, and by a kind of juxtaposition: but Everhard, supposing a simultaneous formation of all the instruments of nutrition together at first, and esteeming the Mass of bloud by reason of its asperity and eagerness unfit for nutrition, and rather apt to prey upon than feed the parts, maintains, that the liquor is sucked out of the Amnion by the mouth, concocted in the stomach, and thence passed into the Milky Vessels, even from the beginning. Mean time they both agree in this, that the Embryo doth breath, but not feed, through the Umbilical vessels. This our Author undertakes to disprove; and having asserted the mildness of, atleast, many parts of the bloud, and consequently their fitness for nutrition, he defends the Harveyan doctrine, of the Colliquation of the Nourishing Juyce by the Arteries, and its conveyance to the Taetus by the veins. In (509) In the third Chapter, the Membranes and Humors of Embryo's are considered, The Membranes are in some, three, in others, four, in an Egg, six. All Placentiferous Animals (if I may assume this word) he affirms to have three Membranes, and Sows, Mares, and Women also; but only two Humors. Again, Bitches, Cats, and Conies, four Membranes, and three Humors; so that the Number of the Membranes hath been hitherto observed alwaies to exceed that of the Humors. Giving the History of both, he begins from Sheep, Cows, and other Ruminating Animals, describing first the Chorion, assigning its Use, and comparing it with that in Deer, Cows, Mares, Women, Rabbets, Bitches, and Cats, when with young. Then he proceeds to the description of the Allantoides (the Membrane immediately encompassing that skin, wherein the Faetus is wrapped) and thence to that of the Amnion, wherein the Embryo it self lieth, swimming in its alimental liquor. And lastly to that which is observed to be in Bitches, Cats, and Rabbets, and contains a very good and nourishing Juyce; which how it comes thither, is a difficult inquiry, as well as that other, how the liquor gets into the Amnion. To resolve both which our Author. having disproved the Filtration of the liquor, held by Curvey and Everhard out of the Chorion into the Amnion, and evinced, that the liquor in the Allantoides, interjected between these two is Urinous, he concludes, that the alimentary Juyce passes through the Umbilical Vessels by a proper Artery, depositing it in those Membranes we speak of, and reserving it there for the use of the Faetus. Concerning the Humors, he affirms, that all of them in all Animals are Nutritive, except that in the Allantoides. He observes also, that most of Oviparous Fishes have Eggs or Spawn, as to sense of one only colour, and but one humor; yet that the Spawn of a Skite hath a White and a Yolk. Birds have mostly three nutritious substances, that are visible, viz. a Yolk and a double White: to which upon incubation, comes a fourth, co liquated out of the former; the tender Embryo feeding upon the two Whites, till they being consumed, the Yolk of the Chick now to be hatcht, is shut up in the Abdomen, and thence by a peculiar Ductus conveighed into the guts; and so serves the young bird for breasts, it is fed by, until the twentieth day. In Viviparous Creatures are found sometimes two, sometimes three humors, and in Bitches, Cats, and Rabbets four; which perplexeth the Author, as to the giving a reason for it. These Humors, he saith, he hath examined, by concreting, distilling, and coagulating them; where he Hee 3 furnishes (510) furnishes the Reader with no vulgar Observations. He concludes this Chapter by observing, that there is also Air in the said Membranes; which besides other Arguments, he proves from the crying of Infants in the Womb (of which he alledges a memorable and well attested example in a Child of an English Lady in Cheshire, the Child being yet alive and in good health;) and from Chickens, often heard to peep in the Egg, both before the breaking of the shells, and after, the Membranes being yet entire; adscribing the production of this Air to the spirituous liquor in the Membrane, apt to ferment, and thereby causing store of exhalations. The fourth Chapter discourses of the Umbilical Vessels; and observes first, that they differ in different Animals, and hold proportion to the Membranes and Liquors, so as those that have two Liquors, have four Membranes, and three Liquors have fix: the Oviparous also being furnished with a Ductus, passing to the Guts, because they want breasts, and their yolk is shut up in the belly. The Umbilical Arteries, belonging to the Placenta, and commonly said to be derived from the Crurals, are by him affirmed to proceed from the end of the Aorta. They are here described, and their several portions distributed for the Chorion and Amnion. Then an account is given of the Hepatick Vein, corresponding to the Arteries. It is in Viviparous Animals inserted into the Vena Porta, passing again with the remaining Bloud thorow the Canalis Venosus into the Cava, without percolation made in the Liver. In Birds it enters not into the Liver, but passes over its convexity into the Cava. A description is also made of the Urachus, found in all Viviparous Creatures, though by many Writers denied to be in Man, who notwithstanding hath need, as well as other such Animals, somewhere to lodge his Urine. The Oviparous want this Umbilical funiculus, but yet are furnished with fit sanguineous Vessels, which here also are explained; especially the Ductus Intestinalis, said to be omitted by Dr. Harvey, and to have been known to the Author long before Mr. Steno claimed the discovery of it; for which he appeals to the testimony of Mr. Boyle, and three worthy Physicians, Willis, Millington, and Lower; as also to that of two ingenious Frenchmen, Guison, and Fiard, to whom our Author affirms to have shewed Anno 1659, when they were going over into Holland, not only this Ductus, but also the Ductus Salivales, and the Passages of the Nostrils, published afterwards by the said Steno. The use of this Ductus Intestinalis is esteemed to be the conveighing of (511) of the Yolk into the Guts for a second coction, there made by the Pancreatick Juyce, acknowledged to be excellently handled by the Learned Sylvias, and his ingenious Scholar, De Graeff, from the former of whom our Author yet dissents, about the mixture of the Gall with the said juyce in the Heart resuting it by several Experiments. The fifth,explains the Communion of Vessels in Embryo's: In whom, he saith, three Anastomoses are usually observed, which, as soon as the Faetus is born, are closed. They are called For amen Ovale, Canalis Arteriosus, and Venosus. The two former to be met with about the Heart; the last in the Liver. All three here described by the Author, who also compares, as Harvey does, the Faetus yet in the Womb with the manner of operation of those Animals, that are provided but with one cavity in the Heart,and with no Lungs; the bloud of the Fruit,as long as it is unborn, passing neither through the Parenchyma of the Lungs, nor that of the Liver. Lastly, the necessity of Respiration is explicated, and how the defect of the Lungs, and of one of the Ventricles of the Heart,is supplied in Fishes, viz.by comminuting and mixing the bloud in the Gills. To which is annexed the manner of Respiration in Amphibia's, which are furnisht with Lungs and two Ventricles of the Heart, and yet, if Bartholin misinforms us not, keep the Foramen Ovale all their life time open; which yet our Author calls in question, alledging, to have seen no Diving Animals, which had not the said Foramen closed after their being born. The Sixth makes a digression, to discourse of the Biolychnium, and the Ingress of the Air into the Bloud, for the Generation of Spirits, and the pretended kindling of a vital Flame. But our Author can see nothing that may prove either the exissence, or the necessity of such a Flame: On the contrary, he finds the Bloud unfit for taking Fire,and judgeth it very difficult to assign either the place or the manner of this accension; which is not made in the Lungs, nor in the Heart, which he holds to be destitute of all ferment. To which he adds, first, that the Heat of the Bloud is not sufficient to cause such an inflammation, seeing how much even good spirit of Wine must be heated, before it will flame, which it doth not without the actual application of fire. Next, That Examples are very rare of Liquors kindled by ventilation. Further, That Fishes and Frogs, which yet have life, motion, and sense, are not thought to have this flame, as being actually cold. Besides, That the Animal Spirits are not found in the form of flame; which he endeavours to prove from the Willisian doctrine of the manner, in which they (512) they are in the Brain severed from the Bloud. Lastly, That it is doubted by some, whether any Air at all is received into the mass of bloud, which yet is not questioned by our Author, who only doubteth, whether through the Lungs there be a high way for the Air to the Bloud. After this, our Author gives his thoughts both of the true Use of the Lungs, and of Sanguification. The Lungs, he saith, serve chiefly, by their constant agitation to comminute the bloud, and so to render it fit for a due circulation; which office he thinks to be performed in Fishes by the continual motion of their Gills, a Succedaneum to Lungs. Sanguification, according to him, is chiefly performed and perfected by the frequent pulsions of the Heart, and the repeated contractions of its left Ventricle at the passing of the Sanguineous liquor from thence into the Aorta. The Seventh and last Chapter contains a Direction for the younger Anatomists, of what is to be observed in the diffection of divers Animals with young: and first, of what is common to all the Viviparous; then, what is peculiar to several of them, as a Sow, Mare, Cow, Ewe, SheGoat, Doe, Rabbet, Bitch, and a Woman: Lastly, What is observable in an Egg, Skate, Salmon, Frog, &c. All is illustrated by divers accurate Schemes. III. ELEMENTORUM MYOLOGIAE Specimen; seu MUSCULI Descriptio Geometrica, Authore NICOLAO STENONE. THis Book is not yet come into England; only the Excellent Septalio having in his Letter above mentioned given us notice of its being published and dedicated to the great Duke of Tuscany, we thought it not amiss to inform the Curious of it. LONDON, Printed for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society, and are to be sold at the Sign of the Bell, a little without Temple-Bar, 1667. 