Three Cases communicated by Claudius Amyand, Esq; F. R. S. Serjeant Surgeon to his Majesty. I. Concerning a Child born with the Bowels hanging out of the Belly. II. Of an extraordinary Cause of a Suppression of Urine in a Woman. III. Of a Stricture in the middle of the Stomach in a Girl, dividing it into two Bags. 1. T H E 18th of December, 1730, Mr. L 's Child was born with the greatest Part of the Bowels hanging out of the Belly, by an Aperture about half an Inch in Diameter on the Right Side of the Navel String. The Birth was natural an deasy. Being called, I found the Aperture lined with a Skin, and a Ligament that opposed the Reduction; the (259) the Parts livid, and tending to Mortification; yet the Child lived near three Days. Upon opening, I found the Prolapsus to consist of all the small Guts, except the Duodenum, and of all the large ones, except of a small Portion of the Rectum; the Gaul-Bladder was about two Inches long, one half of which stood out of the Abdomen, and a small Portion of the Stomach: All these were so coalesced together, and confounded, that it was impossible to separate them; though upon blowing, the Intestinal Pipe seemed to have its usual Length. The Liver was much thicker and larger than usual, and convex in that Part of it, that is naturally concave: And the Uterus and Bladder pressed on the left Side, by the Weight of the Bowels pressing on the Right. The Mother could ascribe no Cause for this praeternatural Formation. The Child came at full Term, but its Inquietudes for some Months before the Birth, made the Mother apprehend he was not well. Saving this, nothing extraordinary appeared. II. I was lately called to a Woman who had a Suppression of Urine, occasioned by the Menses collected in the Vagina, pressing upon the Urethra. She had been delivered eight Months before of two Children; after which the Carunculae Myrtiformes had joined together so closely, that there was no room for any Evacuation of the Menses. I made a cross Aperture, whereby near three Quarts of the Menses collected were discharged; the Suppression of Urine was immediately removed, and the Patient cured. III. Upon (260) III. Upon opening the Body of a young Country Girl, dead of a Consumption, I found her Lungs supurated in many Places, and a Stricture in the middle of the Stomach, dividing this Viscus into two Bags. This Stricture appeared to have been of some Standing, and likely to have occasioned some Difficulty in Digestion; but upon Enquiry, her Mistress and Fellow Servants said, that her Appetite and Digestions were natural, and that she had continued in a good Plight, till upon coming to London she contracted a Cough, that had brought on the Consumption. F I N I S. 