QQ. The two Ureters. An Anatomical Observation of four Ureters in an Infant, and some remarks on the Glandulae Renales, made by the same ingenious Person. HAving in the former Observation given some remarks of the unusual Structure of the Kidneys, the Emulgent Veins and Pelvis; I shall here add what occurred to me May 23d. 1679. upon the opening the Body of an ~, relating to those parts, particularly of the Ureters; which here I found double to both Kidneys, their Origination from the Kidneys being at some distance from each other; but afterwards both of the same side were inclosed in a Capsula or Membrane even to the Bladder, where those of the right side were inserted severally, yet near each other, but on the left they seemed to enter at the same Orifice. I have given a Cut of the right Kidney and of both the Glandulae Renales, as well to shew their just magnitude and figure (as they appeared in this Body) as also their proportion to each other. As far as I have higher to observed, the Glandulae Renales in Embryo's and Insants are greater, at least proportionably, then in Adultis. They have a large Cavity, which by blowing into them I found emptied themselves into two Veins; whereof the right immediately passed into the Vena Cava, the left into the Emulgent: besides these they had other lesser ones from the neighbouring Vessels. Explication (1040) Explication of Fig. 2. Tab. 1. A. The right Kidney, whose superfice seemed to be variously divided. B. The Emulgent Vein. C. The Emulgent Artery. d. d. Two Ureters belonging to this Kidney. Fig. 3. Represents the two Ureters of the left Kidney, which a little below the Kidney are both inclosed in a common Capsula or Case, and so continued to the Bladder. Fig. 4. Represents the Glandulae Renales. A. The Glandula Renalas of the right side. B. ~ that of the left side. C. The Vena Cava. d. A vein or ductus opening from the cavity of this Gland and entering the Vena Cava. e. A Vein from the left Glandula Renalis, and is inserted into a branch of the left Emulgent. Fig:2 h G e h B d G e G A d a ~ ~ ~ R Fig:4 d e A G B h O G f Fig:3 h R L Tab 2 A Fig:4 3 2 Fig:1 8 1 ~ C B A C B C D ~ E G H 