VIII. Experiments to prove that Fluids pass directly from the Stomach to the Circulation of the Blood, and fronm thence into the Cells of the Spleen, the Gall Bladder, and Urinary Bladder, without going thio'rgh the Thoracic Duct. By Everard Hiome, Esq. F. F. S. Read January 31, i8ilX AVING on a former occasion laid before the Society some experiments, to prove that fluids pass directly from the cardiac portion of the stomach, so as to arrive at the circulation of blood without going through the thoracic duct, the only knowne channel by which liquids can arrive there; the present experiments are brought to confirm that opinion; but in stating them, I wish to correct an error I was led, into, in believing that the spleens was the channel, by which they are cone veyed. At the time I made my former communications, I was con-, sciou s that the facts I had ascertained were only sufficient to open a new field of enquiry; but as I might never be able to, make a ftrther progress in an investication, bet vith so, many difficulties, I thought it right to put thin on recordO Since that time I have lost no opportutily of devising noev experiments to elucidate this subject; and the circum stance of Mr. BRODIE, the assistant of my philosophical as elil as professio-al labours, having tied the thoracic duat izi some expel riments which will come before the Sociey, stige-stxc ton-me ae idea, that f the thor'acic du ct was tied, Ganl propcr eepiri I r. Homri's Experiments on Fluids, &c' nents made, there could be no difficulty in ascertaining whether there was any other channel between the stomnach and the circulation of the blood. With this view I instituted the following experimnent, which was made on the 29th of September i8io, by Mr, BRODIE, assisted by Mr. WILLIAM BRANDE and Mr. GATCOMBE. I was unavoidably prevented from being present during the -tirie of the experiment. Experiment i. A ligature was passed round the thoracic dUct of a rabbits just before it enters at the junction between the left jugular and subelavian veins: an ounce of strong infusion of rhubarb was then injected into the stomach. In three quarters of an hour som e urine was voided, in which rhubarb was distinctly -detected, by the addition of potash. An hour and a quariLer after the injection of the rhubarb the animal was killed: a -dramn and half of urine was found in the bladder highily tingcd with rhubarb, and the usual alteration of colour took placc. oui the addition of potash. The coats of thethoracic duct hlad given away opposite the middle dorsal vertebra, and nearly an 'munce of chyle was found effused into -the cavity of the thorax, beside a considerable quantity in the cellular membrane of the po-st rxor inediastinumn. Above th e ru~ -ured part the thoracic -duct was entire, much distended with chyle and on -tr'u g it upwards, the termninvation of the duct in the vein vas found. to be completely secured by the ligature. Thre iacteal and i-nmphantc Vessels had given way in several parts Of the abdomien, and chyle and lymph were extravasated unlierneat-i the peritoncuUIP Mr. El 'xe S nshipmets so 9id, &e. In this and th2 follo0wing; experiments the infusion of rhu-t barb was enploy>-d in preference to the prussiate of potash, in conseque nice of its havi Kg been foxnd in those I formerly inarc, that one drop of tincture of rhubarb could be detected in half an ounce 1 Serum, and nothing less than a quarter of a grain of prussiate of potash in the same quantity could bea made to strike a blue colour when the test was added. Experitnent s. The experiment w as repeated upon a dog. In this I was assisted by Mr. I3RODIE, Mr. WILLIAM BRANDE, Mr. CLIFT, and Mr. GATCOMBE. After the thoracic duct had been secured, two ounces of strong infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomTnach, and in an hour the dog was killed. The urine in the bladder, on the addition of potash, became deeplytinged \w7ir hubarb. ThLe bile in the gall bladdler, by a similar test, Wsas found to contain rhubarb. T'h lacteal yessels 'in severa ,arts of te t rentry had butrst a'nd chyle was extravasated rto tLe ccziDu,'1, memnbrane ; the thoracic duct had given way i the lowve t of the poS terior mediastinumn, and chyle was .extravasated. Aix )ve the ruAtured part th*e thoracic I Ct was nv1ch distnded with chyle; it was readily traced to the 1igatu e, by which it was coimpetely secured. These experme~nts appCared to establish the fact, that the thoracic duct was not the channel throug srh which the infusion of rhubaro was conveyed to the circulation of the blood, and it no V-1 became easy to ascertain, whZther it passed through the srleen, by extirpating that organ, and repeating the last expeT Inita DMcCCXI. Y 166 l Mr. Hio-ME's Experhiments on Fluids, &c. On the 21St of October, i8io, the following experiment, 7as made with the assistance of Mr. BRODIE, Mr. CLIFT, Mr. GATCOMBE, and Mr. MONEY. Expeinsent 3. The thoracic duct near its termination was secured in a d gs,, whose spleen had been removed four days before, and three ounces of infuSion Of r1 ubarb were injected into th e stomac c 'n an hour and half the dog was killed, and the urine wvas found strongly impregnated with rhubarb; and on examination, the thoracic duct was found to be completely secured by the ligature. Several of the lacteals had burst, but the duct itself had not given waty; it wVas greatly distended with chyle and lymnph. By this experiment it was completely ascertained, that tie spleen is not the channel tr ough which the iniulsion of rhu barb is conveyed into the circulation of tIle blood, as I had been led to believe, and therefore the rhubarb, jrl tny former experiments detected in the spleen, must have been de3posited there in the same manner as in the Urine, and in the bile. The detection of this error made me morreL axios to avoid being misled respectiign the thoracic duct; and thr eore, although there wads little probability tha t the infusion of rlhu barb could have passed Into the lymphatic vessels, which open into the blood vessels of the right side of the weck, I thought it right, before I proceeded fu rther, to repeat the experiment, securing the termination of the thioracic diuct on, the left side, and the lymlaphatic trunk of tdle rigyht side, where it empties itself into the angle betwveen the jugular and subclavian vein. This was done on the 28th of October, i8io, with the assistance of the same persons as in the last experim;ent. Y; 1ot L's Experiments on Fuids, &ce. 167 Eper'ient 4. The thoracic duct of a dog was tied, as in the former expe.. riment; in doing it the duct was wounded, and about a dram of chyle fiowed out; the lymphatic trunk of the right side was then secured. After this, three ounces of infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stonmach, and in an hour the dog was killed. The urine and the bile were found distinctly impregnated with rhubarb. On opening the thorax, some absorbent vesseYs, distended with lymph, were seen on the right side of the spine, entering an absorbent gland onf the second dorsal vertebra, and the vasa efferentia from the gland were seen uniting with other absorbent vessels, and extending towJards the right shoulder, where they formed a common trunk sith the absorbents from the neck and axilla; this trunk ,~as founc c i:ded in the ligature. The thoracic duct was ,-,n0deately distended with a mixture of chyle and lymph ; in traing It -up wa cs, an opening was seen in it inmtnediately'below the Igta ure, tflaraogh which the co atents readily pas-ed out when prxsvure was made on the duct: above this openliing the duct vwas completely secured by the ligature. Nearly a dram of the fli id contained in the thoracic duct was coIected and tested by potash, but there did not appear to be any inpregnation of r ub3rbo Experiment S. The last experiment was repeated on another dog, on the 2ist of January, 1811I, with the assistance of Mr. BRODIE, Mr. VI* BiANDE, Mr. CurT, and Mr. GATCOMBE. The dog was killed an hour after the thoracic duct and lymphatic trunk had been secured, and the infusion of rhubarb had been ,aijected into the stomach. A 168 Mr. HomxL's Experitnents on Fluids, &c. In tying the right lymphatic trunk, a lymphatic vessel, from the thorax going to join it, was wounded, from which chyle flowed out in considerable quantity during the whole time of the experiment; a short time before the dog was Skilled some of it was collected, but on testing it with potash no rhubarb was detected in it. The urine was found inpregnated with rhubarb, as was also the bile from the gall bladder ; but both in a IesS degree than in the last experimnent. The lacteal vessels and i-neserteric glands were much distended wirth chyle; and on cutting into the glands chyle flowed out in considerable quwntity. Some of this was collected and tested with potash, but shewed no evia dence of rhuibarb being contained in it. The thoracic duct was much distended; it was traced to the ligature, and was found to be completely secured. Lymphatic vessels from the right side of the posterior mediastinum, were seen extending towards the ligature that had been tied on that side ; they were nearly empty; and the trunk formed by the junction of these with the lymphatic vessels from the right axilla, and fronm the right side of the neck, was seen distinctly includ ed in the ligature. WXhile Mr. BRODvE was tracing the thoracic duct, Mr. WIL, LIAM BRANDE was making an infusion of the spleen, and shewed me a section of it, in which the cells were larger, and more distinct, than I had ever seen thern in a dog. There was a slight tinge of rhubarb in the infusion from the spleen. AX sitrn il r infusioUn was made of the liver but the quantity of blood contained in it being much greater than in th-c spleen, the upea ac was not sufficiently distinct to decide whether it corntai-d rhubarb or not. These experiments appcar comnMr. HogMl's Experi'ments on Fluids, c. 169 pletely to establish the fact, that the rhubarb did not pass through the thoracic duct, and therefore must have got into the circulation of the blood by some other channel. They likewise completely overturn the opinion I had adopted of the spleen being the medium by which the rhubarb had been conveyed, and show thnat the spleen answers sonne other purlposes in the animal econonmy. The rhubarb found in the spleen does not arrive there before it enters the circulation, it is therefore most probably afters wards dep)osited in the cels in the form of a secretion. That' the rhubarb goes into the circulationis proved by my former Cxp.erimeints, in which it was detected in the splenlic vein. The prussiate of potash is hardly to be discovered in thie blood of a living animal, since the proportion, which strikes a blue colour on the addition of solution of iron, is greater than the circulating fluids can be expccted to contain at any one time) as it goes ofi by the secretions nearly as fast as it is received, into the blood vessels. In a moderately sized ass more thart two drams must be dissolved in the bloord before its pres2nce. there can be detected. That the fluid contained in the cells of the spleen Is secreted there, is rendered highly pr &bable, since it is mo0t abundant while the digestive organs are ernploy~'d, and scarcely at all met -with when the animal 1has been sometime w thout food. The great objection. to this opir ion is, there bein6 no excretory duct but the lymphatic vessels of thej spleen ; these however are both larger and, more numerous tthan it] any other organ; they are found in the ass to farm one common trunk which opens into a larje gland on the side of' the thor",Cha.i> duct, just above the rec .r taculum chyi and when theal 170 Mr. H0oMr's Experiments on Fluids, &el silver is made to pass through the branches of this gland, there is a trunk equally large on the opposite side, which makes an angle, and then terminates in the thoracic duct. This fact I ascertained at the Veterinary College, assisted by the Deputy Professor Mr. SEWELT, and Mr. CLIFT. These lyme -phatic vessels are equally large as the excretory ducts of any other glands, and therefore sufficient to carry off the secretion formed in the cells of the spleen; and where a secretion is to be carried into the thoracic duct, it would be a deviation from thea general plan of the animal economy, were any but lymphatic vessels employed for that purpose. It is a strong circumstance in favour of the secretion being so conveyed, that in the last experiment, the lacteals and cclls -) the spleen were unusually turgid, being placed under simiI circunstances, the thoracic duct being so full as not to ec eive their contents. The purposes that are answered by such a secreti. n from 'he spleen into the thoracic duct cannot at present be asce ta1ned, 