Philofoph. Transact. Number. Fig.4. a Fig.5. p a q c d f d b g e m to. Sca n 20. i l h o Fig.2. ~ ~ m k q g p h r n g s n m r w w h x v y t k z ~ ~ y ~ ~ ~ mber. 153. Tab.1. Fig.1. Scale of Inches. i h f k c c b d a Fig.3. r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sculp Phitosoph. Transact. Numb a f Fig. 1. d e b c d c c e Fig.2 a d f m c b c e f d f Number, 153. Tab. 2. d a b b c c a e b e Fig.3. f f d g k h h e Fig. 4. i m n m n f e l h g h h ~. sculp. [359] Num. 153. PHILOSOPHICAL T R A N S A C T I O N S. November 20. 1683. The C O N T E N T S. Tajacu, seu Aper Mexicanus Moschiferus, or the Anatomy of the Mexico Musk-Hog. By the Learned and Ingenious Edward Tyson M. D. Fellow of the College of Physicians and of the Royal Society. An account of a Book. Recherches Curieuses &c. Curious Researches of Antiquity contained in divers dissertations concerning Medalls, Bass-Releifs, Statues, Mosaic-works, and Inscriptions of the Ancients: Enrich't with a great number of brassCuts. By Monsr. S P O N Dr. of Physic. Printed at Lyons 1683. in quarto. Tajacu seu Aper Mexicanus Moschiferus, or the Anatomy of the Mexico Musk-Hog, &c. THis Animal being so much a stranger to our Nation; and its inward organs, at least some, so odd, and remarkable; I am willing to deliver my observations of it. They are rude, and very inperfect, yet such as they are, I the rather venture abroad, since it may be, I may never have an opportunity of compleating them. The occasion of my making these, was afforded me, by my very good friend Dr. Goodall, a Fellow of the Colledg of Physicians, and a great lover of the same, who accidentally meeting with it, when dead; procured it for our private dissection at our Theater; and afterwards more leasurely examining it, at the Repository of the Royal SociB b b ety; [360] ety; and having the assistance of my ingenious Friend R. Waller Esq. and Mr. Hunt in making the Figures; I think I may be able to give some better notice of it, than what hitherto we have received. But it will be convenient first of all, to tell what it is we are going to describe. The Indian names of this Animal are, Quauhtla Coymatl, & Quarizotl; or Coyametl, seu Quauhcoyametl as in the Mexico History. Oviedus saith, the Indians call it Chuchie. In Lerius, Gomara, Margravius, Gul. Piso, &c. it is called Tajacu, Tajacu Caaigoaru. by Josephus a Costa, and others, Zaino, or Sayno; and by Jo. Faber one of the Lyncean Academy,and who hath wrote the largest on this Animal of any I have met with, it is called Aper Mexicanus; and for a reason I shall afterwards give, I have added the Epithet Moschiferus; to distinguish it from any other that may be met with there. The whole shape of this Animal is such, that we may easily reduce it to the Swine kind; as plainly appears by our Figure, which is much more exact, than either that in Hernandez; where the Snout, and head seems too slender, nor did we observe that white ring about the Neck; which is there conjecturally described. Or that in Piso, Johnston, &c. where it is pictured with large Mustachios, and a Tayle. But it was much lesser then our usual Hoggs, for from the end of the body, where the Ta le should be, to the top of the head between the ears, was two foot and two inches; from thence, to the end of the nose, XI. Inches. The Girth of the body, two foot. The girth of the neck, 16 Inches; of the head in the largest place 18 Inches; and of the Snout 12 Inches. For the lower Jaw in this Mexico-Hog, was more protuberant, and the head less tapering then in our Smine; and in the Sceleton appears, much like that of the Baby Roussa; only it had not those teeth; and the Neck appeared so very short and thick, not from those large glands, which in some of the Swine kind do so stuff out their necks; but from the short turning upwards of the Vertebrae of the Neck, which were kept [361] kept so close to the body, by the insertion of that strong ligament into the Pole from the back, which in Animals, that are prono Capite, is of extraordinary use, and much adds to the strength of this Animal. The Colour of the body was grisly; being beset with bristles, which were thicker then those of a hog, and lesser than those of a hedg-hog, but like those of a Hedg-hog, or the quills of a Porcupine, they were variegated with white and black ringes. Jos. a Costa makes them like these, to be weapons too. Irritati (saith he) Setas, ut novacula, acutas erigunt, quibus insectores suos sauciunt periculosissime; ~ declinent. But I more then suspect the truth of this assertion. The belly was almost bare. The bristles on the sides shorter, and gradually encreasing in length,as they approach the ridge of the back. here some were five Inches long. Between the eares on the head was a large tuft of these bristles; which were most part black. G. Piso is out, who makes these Setae on the back, solito breviores, & molliores; and ~ Fulcoburgius much more in the right; who saith, Setae longiores, quam pro corporis proportione, nigrae, hinc inde macnlis candidis distinctae. The Eares were about two inches and ahalf long and pricking up. The Eyes (as they are usually in Piggs) but small; from the lower Canthus to the end of the nose,six inches. The Nose like that of a Hogs. The mouth not large. The side of the lower lip made smooth, as it were by the rubbing of a Tuske in the upper Jaw. The Teeth I will describe with the Sceleton. The Feet and Clawes perfectly as in the common Hoggs, only the upper Claws on the same foot proportionably longer; being one inch quarter and a half long; whereas the true Claws were Scarce one inch and an halfe. b Oviedus saith, ungulas non partitas sive bisulcas habent. And c Peter Martyr, as he is quoted by Gesner, tells us; they are Cloven ~ Apud Tho. Bartholim. Hist.Anat. 96. Cent. 2. b Oviedus in summario Indiae Occidental ~ P. Martyr. Oceanae decad. 1. 2. B b b 2 sooted [362] footed onely before, & whole behind. but ours was no such monster; nor were those observed by F. Gregorius & abundance more. Yet Aristotle, and Pliny too, acknowledge there are Swine, that are Solipedes. Our Hog had no Tayle. Cauda est nulla, Saith d G. Piso, but I wonder why then, he should ~ his Picture-Drawer to give him one, as in his figure. In ~ he wears a Tayle too; who seldome misses the transcribing ~ Errors of those before him;tho he might have borrowed a far better picture out of Harnandez. P. Martyr mentions, that the Spaniards met with some such Tayl-less Hogs in Urabd. Erat tam exigua ejusmodi Apris Cauda, ut prorsus abscissa judicaretur. Nor is it any wonder that amongst the Swine kind, some have Tayles, and others none: for we see the same thing in Munkeys too. But what is most particular in our Hog, and makes the greatest wonder; and differences it, from any other Animal I know of in the World, is the Teat or Navill or Foramen rather on the hinder part of the back. All who mention this Animal; look on this, as a thing so extraordinary, and uncommon; that I know not how their amazement has so far clouded their reason, as to betray them into most extravagant Conjectures, and opinions concerning it. Not any one, as I have met with, affording the least glimmering of a probable truth. But because an account of this part, will be somewhat large; I shall give it the last; and shall now take a survey of its inward organs. Onely shall premise in short what the writers of the Naturall History of the Indies, have given us of the nature of the Tajacu, and the places where tis bred. Hieron. c Benzonus mentions they are in Panama, and new Spaine; f Gomara tells us, they are in Nicaragua; ~ Oviedus saith, they are found in Terra firma; and h Lerius writes, they are in Brasile too. They are usually met ~ ~ ~ with [363] with in the Mountaines, and woods; and go in herds together. They feed on roots, acorns, and fruits; but as the greatest delicacy they hunt for all manner of poysonous Serpents, and Toads; and having caught them, holding them with their fore feet; with a great deal of dexterity, with their teeth they strip of their kin from the head to the Tayle, then greedily devour them. Postea (saith Jo Faber,who had the account from F. Gregorius, who often has seen them, and lived in those parts 24 years) Radicem seu certae arboris Corticem sibi notum quaerit, quem comedit, ne veneno inficiatur; & hac ratione optime nutritur, crescit, & augescit. When they are made tame, they will feed on any thing. But naturally they are very fierce. Oviedus remarkes that the Swine, the Spaniards left on the Islands of St. Domingo, St. Joannes, and Jamaica, multiplyed, and encreased. But those in Terra Firma durst never go in the woods; but were destroyed by the Lions, Tigers, and Lupi Cervarii. Yet in these woods, there are great herds of these Tajacu's, that can make their party good with the Feircest of them. If any be wounded, presently he gets to his assistance a great number of his kind; and never leaves till he has revenged the injury, or is slain. They are allwayes at enmity with the Tigers. And there is often found the body of a Tyger, and abundance of these Tajacus slain together. If they spy a man they will fiercely set on him, and his best escape is to get up a tree, which they will most furioufly assault with their teeth, nor will easily ~ eave him; till forced by hunger, or slain by him, by Clubs, Darts, or a Gun, Josephus a Costa tells us, tis usual this way to take them; by a manshewing himself to them, whome they know they will presently persue. If they hunt them, their dogs are often torne in pieces by them. Their Flesh is esteemed very good, and much desired by the Inhabitants, G. Piso saith, it exi Histor. Animal. &c. Mexican. p. 6 ~ 8. k Jos. a Costa ~ 4 ~. ~. cells [364] cells our Hogs; but Hernandez thinks it is durior atque insuavior. They have but a very little fat; our subject had scarce any. But I find it as a special caution given by all, that as soon as they are taken, to cut out the gland on the back, least it taints the flesh. Thus Joseph a Costa, Caro eorum commodissima esu est, priusquam tamen in cibum detur, umbilici tumore in tergo prominente praesecto, abjectoque opus est. Nisi hoc fiat, uno die Caro putrescet, & Corrumpetur. Nay F. Gregorius would have it done immediately, without any delay: m Quare siquod Animal ejusmodi mactatur, necesse est prorsus, ut confestim ipsi umbilicus exscindatur; quod nisi mediae horae spatio fieret, esui haud amplius aptum animal foret; tam teter enim inde faetor efflatur, qui vix sufferi potest, & reliquam carnis massam omnem inficit. I must confess, this gland did not seem to me, to have that offensive smell; or to impress it on the flesh. This I am consident, that in flaying off the Skin, unless they studiously endeavour it; they cannot avoyd taking away the Gland too; it lying so between the skin, and Panniculus musculosus; which is always taken of with the skin, but of this more anon. We come now to the Anatomy; where our observations shall be chiefly of such parts, as are of a different make from the same in common Hogs; or the most common Animals. Having therefore divided the Muscles of the belly; what first of all we took notice of, was the remarkable structures of the Stomacks, for it had three. Into the middlemost, was inserted the Oesophagus or Gullet; which we therefore shall call the first ventricle or Stomack. From this, on one side was a large passage into the second; which pouching out had its two ends winding like a horn; and on the other side of the first or middle stomack, was a free open passage into the third, which emptyed it self into the duodenum. For the exacter apprehending the shape. and external m Vid. Joh. Fabin. ~. Mex. p.648. form [365] form of these several Stomacks; I have caused them to be represented in three different postures, in three Schemes which fully demonstrates their outward figure. In Fig. 5. Tab. 1. you more plainly see the winding extremitys, or horns of the second Stomack. In the 2d. Fig. Tab. 2. the three Stomacks more in their natural scituation; with the insertion of the Oesophagus into the first.In the 1st. fig. Tab. 2. all three Stomaks opened, wherein is remarkable, that the first Stomack: was lined within, with a white thick hard membrane; almost like the inward pellicle of the Gizard of Fowls; with which none of the other Stomacks were endowed. For the inward surface of the second, was smooth, and soft; its membranes thin, and more inclining to the common make of that of Carnivorous Animals. The third somewhat like this; but thicker, and rimpled within, with large plicae or folds. Our common Hog seemes to have but one Stomack, and much different from these of our Tajacu. Where nature makes more 'tis no doubt for necessary uses. What here by the white pellicle of the first Stomack, is plainly distinguished into three, is more obscurely so, in our common Hoggs. n Dr, Grew does give them but two; acknowledging it to be shaped somewhat oddly in a manner with a double Ventricle. ``The one, and the principal, may be ``called venter magnus, shaped like that of Carnivorous ``Quadrupeds, very thick, and Muscular; especially on ``the neck, and at the Pylorus. At the left end of this ``greater Ventricle, another far lefs, yet a distinct one, is ``appendent. Much after the same manner, as the Reti``culum in a Sheep is to the Paunch, or as the Intestinum ``caecum to the other Guts: for which reason it may be ``called Caecus Ventriculus; separated from the greater by ``a muscnlar ligament, like a half Value. where it joyns to ``it, an Inch, and half over, and thence is extended two ``Inches in length, ending in a twisted or hooked Cone. n Dr. Grew of the Stomacks and Guts of Quadrupeds cap. 3. p. 14 ``Not [366] ``Not so muscular as the greater Venter, but thin and ``membranous. The inward surface also plain or with``out folds. This last described,as it may answer to the second Ventricle in our Tajacu: so his venter magnus, or first, may be distinguished into two; it having about the right end or half of the belly; several ~ as he observed, which answers to our third Stomack, the other end being plain, as was our first. But what he takes notice of, that in the common Hog against the Pylorus stands a round. Caruncle, as big as a small filberd kernel; like a stople to the Pylorus; a part he thinks peculiar to this Animal. This in our Mexico Hog I did not observe. His o conjecture of the use of it, is likely enough: it being so voracious an Animal; for the preventing a too sudden, and copious irruption of the Aliment, which is sufficiently provided for in our subject, by the great streightning of the Pylorus here; and the great ascent it must make, before it can go out: which may be the reason too, of natures making these several Cells, or partitions; for the better digestion and maceration of the food, for it being frugivorous, graminivorous, and Carnivorous too; the stomacks are so contrived, as that the first here,by its inward pellicle somewhat resembles that of Birds, that are Carpophagous; so the others, those of Quadrupeds. Why a Hog of any Animal, should be said the most to resemble Man in all its inward parts; without a Metaphor, I cannot understand. It may be a passage in that book, ascribed to Gallen de Anatome parva; may give some occasion to this vulgar Errour None who shall compare them together; but will observe, in several, if not most parts, a vast difference; as appears in what we have discoursed of allready, the Stomack. Falcoburgius, who dissected a Tajacu, which was brought from Brasile, takes notice of those Cornua of the ~ Dr. Grew ibid cap. 6. p 24. Stomack. [367] Stomack. Ventriculus duas habet appendices, velut Cornua; alteram in superiore, alteram in insima ejus parte; which is all he saith of it. But we shall now proceed to the Guts. And these I find as remarkable as the Stomack; mirum & singulare (saith P F. Gregorius, who had oft dissected them) est; quod Intestina, & Ventris Viscera contrario prorsus alijs Animalibus situ obtinet, renes versus nimirum revoluta: Ita ut quae in ventris parte inferiore, ac prona esse annexa deberent; superiori eadem potius ac supina, ubi spina excurrit, adhaereant, & quae spinae dorsi contiguae esse nata sunt; haec eadem inferiori in parte ventris situentur. What is meant by all this, is I suppose, that the small guts, which in other Animals, being fastened to a larger Mesentery, usually do hang down lower; here, were closer gathered, by the shortness of this membrane, to the Spine; and the Colon, which in others is more suspended; here by its peculiar structure, lies loose, and falls down. For the Duodenum arising from the Pylorus with a short turn; that and the other small Intestines made abundance of Convolutions, and windings; and altho' the Mesentery was but very short from the Spine, and it's Circumference seemingly but very little; yet in this compass it conteined 27 foot of these Intestines; for so much they measured from the Pylorus to the Colon. The Colon was not fastened to the Periphery or rim of the Mesentery, as ordinarily; but arising from the Center, or Middle, made a Spiral line, it's end hanging loose; and it's turnings closely united one to another by membranes. This Colon was very large, in respect of the other Guts; and as I measur'd it, was 9 foot long. It had a short Caecum, but pretty wide, and filled with faeces. What Dr. Grew observes, that tis peculiar to the Caecum of a Hog, and that of a Horse; to have the same structure with the Colon; is true here too. And it may be P Apud Jo. Faber in Hist. Mexican. C c c reck [368] reckoned as an appendix of the Colon. In a Hog, Dr. Grem makes seven Intestines. The same differences, it may be, I might have met with here; but I was prevented by the little leasure I had of being so nice in this, as some other parts; and it being kept so long before I had it for dissection; it was rendred less fit for such enquiries. Falcoburgius saith the length of all the guts were 34 geometrical feet, ours measured more. The Structure of the Colon here, I look on as extraordinary. Some such gut I find in a Goat, making several spiral windings in the middle of the Mesentery; but then taking a compass round, near the verge, to which are fastened the lesser intestines; at last passes into the Rectum. So in a WoodCock, there is such a Spiral Gut. But in our Tajacu not only the Stomack, Gut, and Messentery were extraordinary; but the Mesaraick, vessels too. For in men, and Dogs, &c. making the segment of a Circle near the middle, they then send out several large branches towards the Intestines; which as they approach them, by their mutual inosculation, for in several small Arches from whence issue numerous lesser branches to the Guts themselves. But here in our Hog, we observed a large Vein, and Artery, running a small and equal distance from the Intestines; and from them, arising an infinite number of lesser, but straight vessels; which going to the Guts so regularly, and in so great numbers, afforded a very plesant sight. The Spleen, was about 10 Inches long; almost of the same breadth throughout; and in the middle, was one Inch, and half broad, it was of a lead colour, a little speckled, or marbled. Lien palmas duas aequat transversas, vix digitum minimum crassus, membranae adiposae annexus, saith Falcoburgius. The Liver consisted of four large lobes; and was of a dark red colour. It appeared plainly glandulous; and had no Vesica fellea, which is the more remarkable; since our common Swine have a large Cystis fellea. But it had a Ductus bilarius, which went from the Liver to the Duo[369] Duodenum as usually. Falcoburgius saith, Hepar nullo ligamento suspensorio continetur; per membranam solam vertebris junctum. The Pancreas was about 5, or 6 Inches long; and made up of several glands. But in these parts, there being nothing extraordinary from the common make of the same in other Animals; we shall now pass to the Organs of generation; where we shall meet with something more remarkable. The Testes were two Inches long; larger at the upper end, then the lower, and in the middle, about an Inch broad, they were placed in the Scrotum. Their colour white; their structure close; so that the vessels, which composed them; did not so plainly appear as in an ordinary Boar. Notwithstanding which, no doubt their whole compages was vascular; tho' here closer wrought together, and united. q Vauclius Dathirius Bonglarus discover'd this vascular structure of the Testis of a Boar, as also of a Man, about ten years before Reg. de Graef published his book, de organis Virorum Generat. inservientib. and has given good figures of the same. Tho' the latter has given, a much larger, and further account of this subject since. Their use is no doubt to prepare the Semen; which is conveyed thence by the Vasa deferentia to the Vesiculae seminales. These deferentia arise near the lower part of the Testes; and are so inserted that they might almost equally empty themselves, either into the Vesicae seminales or Vrethra. I do not remember what, or whither there were any Epididymis on the Testes. The Vesiculae seminales were 1 2 Inch long; in some places 1/4 in others half an Inch broad. Tho' called Vesiculae; yet here they appeared more glandulous; nor was their cavity any thing considerably large. The common orifices to them, and the Vasa deferentia made a rising in the inside of the Vrethra; which de Graef calls; Vid. Philosoph. Transact. Numb. 42. p. 843. C c c 2 Ca[370] Caput Gallinaginis; in men and other Animals, there is a better resemblance, and shew for the name. In those too, at this place, is seated that glandulous body, call'd the Prostatae. But the Vesiculae here being so glandulous; possibly they may perform their office. Unless we should ascribe their use, to those two glands; which lay on each side the Vrethra; and emptied themselves with two Orifices, near the root of the Penis. These glands were Cylindrical, of a whitish yellow colour; an Inch, and half long; and 3/8 of an Inch in diameter. Their substance close; like that of the Testes; and no perceptible cavity within; and they lay along the outside the Vrethra, reaching from the musculi erectores Penis, to the glandulous Vesiculae before described. To Van Horn would have a three-fold matter of the Seed; one from the Testes; the second from the Vesiculae seminales; and a third from the Prostates. But this de Graafr, strongly apposes; and will admit only that from the Testes; which is transmitted to the Vesiculae seminales, and not at all bred there. But in our subject, and so in some others, they being glandulous, they must therefore secrete some juice; which in all likelyhood is some ways serviceable, tho' not principally, in generation. And indeed in the Hog-kind, I find these parts very remarkable. In a Boar there are two sorts of Vesiculae seminales; one vesiculous, the other glandulous. In a Hedge-hog, there are three pair of Vesiculae seminales; two in the cavity of the abdomen; and a third between the Muscles of the Belly, and the Skin. In a female Hedge-hog too, I find in the side of the Vagina, below the Orifice of the Urethra, a glandulous body placed; which has a considerable cavity for it's bigness; and a plain Orifice; by which it empties it self into the Urethra. But of this more, when I give the Anatomy of that Animal. And at present, shall not further reason r Reg de Graaf ce Organ. Viror. generat. inservient. on [371] on these parts, but only observe that the Penis in our Tajacu, was a long slender body; made np of several Muscles whereof two were very long. The Vesica Urinaria or bladder of Urine was rounder then in some other Animals; where usually 'tis more oblong. The Ureters were inserted at the neck of the bladder; not sides, as in some. How the kidneys were, I do not now particularly remember; but beleive, there was nothing extraordinary; meeting with nothing of them in my notes. I shall therefore hasten to the Thorax; where we did not meet much observable, unless it was the descendent trunck of the Arteria Aorta. Which I shall describe, having first premised, what Falcoburgius writes of the other parts here; which is only this. sc. Cor a diaphragmate distat palmam transversam unam. Pulmones in septem lobos distributi, quorum in utroque latere tres siti, septimus vero circa Cordis mucronem positus, tanquam utrique Communis. But what of all surprised us most; and made us soon neglect the other parts; which we saw had nothing but what was common; was the strange formation of the Aorta; which as it descended along the spine, in all other Animals, I have observed its trunck almost of an equal bigness; only a little tapering downwards. But here between the heart and its branchings into the Iliac Arteries, we found three large swellings out. The largest was that nearest the heart, which after a small straightning again, emptied it self into the second; which tho' something less then the first; yet much larger than the third, which was near the division of the Aorta into the Rami Iliaci. Two of these swellings I opened; and found within, several unequal Cells, or hollows; but withal could not perceive but the Membranes here, were altogether as thick as where the Artery was nothing extended. ~ ~ ~. loco ante citato. These [372] These extensions of an Artery by Galen, and all others, are called Aneurismata; as those of a Vein, Varices; and are reputed to happen, when the inward Coat of the Artery is bursten and so gives way for the extension of the outward; and commonly they have been occasioned by pricking an Artery,when they have designed a Vein. But what should be the cause of it,in our subject,is most difficult to assigne. For, it being the only one of the kind I have diffected; I know not how far it may be praeternatural, or whither in others the same be to be met with again. If praeternatural, 'tis the more remarkable it should happenhere; because this is the strongest, and thickestArtery in the whole body. If natural, there is nothing I can at present better paralel it with,then those protuberant swellings in the Aorta of Silkwormes, and other such Insects, which Malpighi takes forso many several hearts. Which must be allowed him, unless we will deny them to have any heart at all. Which possibly it may. For in a Leech, there are two large Arteries, without any of these swellings; so we must either confess them, to be two hearts; or not to have any; for there is no part yet I have observed in them, that I can give that name to, besides; nor to these too, without some allowance. As to the other parts, we have but little to say; for want of time, we had not leasure to examine the Brain. The Aperture of the Eye was but small, as in the Hogkind. The membrana mictitans. Plainer, then usually in Quadrupeds; which might be convenient, since wallowing in Mud, they might the better rub off any filth, that might happen there The Muscles not so distinct, as in some Brutes; and hence the motion of their eyes not so quick nor regular. The Pupil round. The Optick nerve inserted almost in the Axis of the Eye; and on the inside, made a small dint. The Choroides of a pale violet, and brownish colour. But we shall now come, to what seems most peculiar to this Animal; and as I know of, to be met with, in none besides; and is mentioned by all not without great admiration, who have wrote of this strange Hog; viz. The Glan[373] Glandulous body on the back. Had I not had the first notice of it from them; 'tis a thing so uncommon, that in all likelyhood it had passed inobserved by me, as it might have done too; had only a single Author asserted the Umbilicus or Navel to be placed there. But finding so universal a consent, I thought, that tho' they might be mistaken in their conjectures about the uses; yet there must be something that must offer the occasion. Having therefore at last found it out, and well observed it; I shall here give the description of it, as I viewed it; then deliver the opinions of others, what they conjectured it might be; and lastly offer my own thoughts concerning it Which having done, and taking a short survey of the Sceleton, we shall conclude. In my description of this part, I shall have frequent recourse to the figures I have caused to be made of it. Which being so accurate,and to the life; will easily discover to the Phantasie what it is; better then it can be drawn or described by words. In figure 1. by the letter (a) you have the place pointed to; where 'twas seated on the back viz. just on the ridge of it, over the hinder legs, but so covered by the long bristles there; that it was not to be observed, but by opening of them, with the hand; and and then you shall find a small space there almost bare; only beset with fewer, shorter and finer hairs; and in the middle of it, the protuberant orisice of the gland; by which it discharges it self of the liquor, which is separated by it within. This orifice, or foramen, which is exactly represented in it's natural bigness, and form in Tab. 1. figure 3. had it's lips a little reflected, and protuberant above the surface of the skin. It would easily admit of a large probe; which I could turn into several parts of the Gland. Upon a gentle pressure with my finger, I could observe a small quantity of a white yellowish juice, and some part of it of a little darker Colour; which Yeilded a very pleasant, and agreeable scent; and was judged by my self, and several others, who smelt it; to be much like that of Musk, or Civet. The Gland it self [374] self was seated between the skin and some part of the panmculus Carnosus. For in the middle of that part, or surface, which respected the back, 'twas bare; and not covered with that Muscle; and only the edges of it inclosed within it, so that in taking off the skin, the Gland too, as I have observed, could not easily escape, but go with it; however this Muscle may be assisting to it by its contractions, in pressing out of its liquor: as the Sphincter Muscle is to those Scent Bags, placed at the Extream of the Rectum of other Animals, as I have formerly hinted. The Gland was exactly of the dimensions as represented in Tab. 1. figure 4. 'T was Conglomerated or made up of several minute, and small white glandules. It had no considerable Cystis, or Cavity within; but like the Pancreas, or Salivatory glands, it had abundance of secretory Ductus's; whic~ terminating at last in one, discharged it's separated juice by that common orifice in Figure 3. Tab. 1. This orifice having something of a resemblance of a Navel,has imposed upon almost all (who have but thus superficially viewed it without examining any thing further) to beleive it, an Umbilicus: and those who have deviated from this sentiment; have been as unhappy, in delivering altogether as absurd, and extravagant Conjec tures about it. To name them, (which is the second particular which I promised) will be a sufficient confutation. Which on this account I do only, to intimate how little we ought to rest satisfied with the Natural History of Animals, at present we have given us. Not but those who have done so much; justly deserve their due commendations. But it would be a great reflection, that having their helps, and far greater advantages, should we not improve their observations. F. Gregorius, (who had so great an opportunity of acquainting himself with the truth of it, being so long in the Country) tells us, Umbilicus exit per spinam circa Clunes. Hieron Benzonus saith, that in a port in Panama, the Spaniards had given them by the Natives, bread, fish, fruits, [375] fruits, and swines flesh. Apri autem isti Indici, seu agrestes sues; Umbilicum in dorso gerunt. In the notes to this Chapter, the same is confirmed of the wild ~ogs in New Spain. And Gomara writes the same, of those in Brasile. Oviedus tells us of those in Terra sirma, that Umbilicum in medio dorso geru~t. Josephus a Costa affirms much the same, Saynos a~imalia sunt Aprisormia Umbilicum in dorso gerentes. Jo.Faber concludes from these, and all the accounts he could meet with, in the writers of the Natural History of the West Indies, as a most undoubted truth; Sayno esse Aprum, cui Umbilicus non in ventre sed in dorso prominet. And altho in some other circumstances, their testimonies disagree; yet he saith, in hoc omnia conveniunt, Umbilicum circa dorsi Spinam existere. Indeed he is very liberal; and gives him, (if I may so call it) a long Navel-string too. It may be, being imposed on, by the picture of Nardus Ant. Recchus; where there is something very prominent; and as I believe, was designed only, to point to the place; where this supposed Navel was seated; rather then to represent any thing natural in it. But in the description, his words are these, ~ sed quod maximopere admireris, ac praeter naturae seriem contigisse dicere queas, nec ullis alijs in bestijs animadvertas, est; quod Animal hoc prominentiam quandam in dorso sortitum fuerit, eminentem apprime & detruncati forma intestini conspicuam: Et hanc in dextra quidem sui parte, prope spinam dorsi sitam, clunes sc. versus, perpendiculariter Genitalis Masculini potius quam umbilici regioni, in ventre adesse porcis soliti, respondentem. In his Scholia on this, he spends some pages in reasoning on this so odd a Phaenomenom But being so much mistaken in the ~ of the question; we shall not trace him farther: but see what others have thought of it. And our next instance shall be, the opinion of Falcoburgius, a Physitian at Leyden; who dissected one brought ~ vid. Jo.Fabri Exposition. in Animal. Novae Hisp. p. 637. D d d from [376] from Brasile. And from an Anatomist, we might expect something more accurate. Indeed he denyes it to be a Navel; but will have it to be a breast, or Mamma. I will give his account of it, as I meet with it in v Bartholine; who has taken it out of Margravius (which at present I have not by me) in dorsi (says he) externi medietate, ~ super spinam dorsi prope vertebras Lumbares, mamma est, cujus circumserentiam aureus ducatus metiebatur, quam porcellis lactandis destinatam esse, ex glandulis substratis judicabat; in eas enim venae variae, eaeque satis magnae inseruntur. Papillarum in sumine nullum usum credebat; nulla enim glandula subjicitur, nec vasa sanguifera comparent pro lacte gener ando sufficientia. Indeed Jo. de Laet in his annotions on that Chapter in w Margravius, tells us, he was fully informed by those that lived in Brasile; that the young pigs there, did suck the Teats under the belly; and not that fancyed one on the back; He will rather have it therefore, an Umbilicus, as all the Natives take it to be. But the third opinion is that of Jo. Lerius, and Thevetus; who make it a Spiraculum, by which it breaths. Habet (saith he) a natur a for a men in dorso, quemadmodum in capite suem marinum habere dixi, quo spiritum emittit, admittitque y Gul. Piso with a short Censure on it, denies that any of these offices ought to be given to this part; and is more inclinable to the opinion of z Hernandez; who having disected it, assures us; tis only glandulosa quaedam, & mollis pinguedo. The Colour, I beleive, made him call it pinguedo; tho' really it's substance is wholly glandulous. In it (Hernandez saith) se recipit humor quidam aqueus, qui digitis expressus fluit. But I wonder, that having seen, and dissected them he takes no notice of the scent it yeilds. To interpose therefore my own Conjecture concerning v Tho. ~. cent. 2 Hist. Med. 96 w Margravius. lib. 7. Chap. 7. x Jo. Lerius in Navigar. in ~ c. 9. y C. Pilo de ~ndiae ut ~ re Nar. & Med. ~. 3. pag. 99. z Franc. ~ ~. Quadruped. Novae Hisp. Tract. ~. c. 2. p. 8. it [377] it; (which is the third thing I promised) there is nothing I can parallel this gland with more, than those scent-bags, or scent-glands, I have formerly mentioned to be in other Animals. For tho' the whole body may be perspirable; and so diffuse a smell; yet that peculiar faetor, which is observed in all strong-scented Animals; I have hitherto constantly found, more remarkably collected into one part; the particles, which cause it, being separated from the Mass of blood by peculiar glands; which either quickly discharge it wholly out of the body, as in some; or transmit the separated juice into bags, or bladders, where it remains some longer time, as in many other Animals. This I first took a notice of, in Polecats; that just at the extream of the Rectum, were placed two bags, filled with a crasse, and whitish liquor; whose stink was so very great, that I could not well endure the room, till I had removed them; and then the whole body seemed very inoffensive. The same I have observed in abundance of other Animals; as in all the Polecat-kind, in our common Cats; In a Lyon; in Dogs; In a Fox, &c. Those bags in the Civet-Cat, or Hyaena odorifera are nothing but the same. As are likewise those of a Musk-quash mentioned by Josselin in his history of the Rarities of NemEngland, For they are not the Testicles of that Animal~ as that Letter from Dublin in the Philosophic-Transactions No.127. pag. 653. does intimate, for having seen the Skins here in Town; and those Musk Cods; I find them to be only the Scent-bags. So the Castoreum we have in our Shops, is not the Stones of a Beaver; as formerly reputed; but of the same nature altogether with our Scentbags. I should be too prolix, should I inlarge upon this subject here, it shall suffice to say, that in most Species of Animals there may be observed, something the same, or a Vid. Dr. Plot's Nat. History of Oxon Shire. Cap.9. p. 305. D d d 2 or [378] or analogous to it, which give them, their peculiar faetors, or smells. Thus I have observed in Reptiles, as the b Rattlesnake, in Vipers, in our common Snake, &c. two long bags in the Tayle; which empty their faetid liquor, near the verge of the Rectum. But in all Animals, I find not these bags or glands seated here; but in some, in different parts of the body. In Fowl, and Birds in the rumps (as I have formerly mentioned) you will meet with two glands; which have their pipes or secretory ductus arising on the top of it, above the surface of the Skin; which discharges a faetid liquor. I find these Glands the largest in Geese, and the Duck kind, which use the water; and any one at the table, by tasting may perceive in a Duck, how strong scented they be. In Turky's, tis less glandulous; but they have a larger Cystis within. In the Ostridge indeed, I did not observe it on the Rump; but something higher on the back; where it made two bunchings out; and under the Skin I found a Cystis fill'd with a concreted yellowish juice, this something approached near the place, where was seated the ~land in our Mexico Hog, which I call the Scent-gland, and it yielding so grateful a perfume (for so it was esteemed by my self, and several others, who smelt it) from it, I have named it, the Mexico Musk Hog. This difference is remarkable; whereas our Musk Hog has it's Scent Gland seated on the back, and it has been by most hitherto mistaken for a Navel: So the Gazella or Musk Deer has his Musk-bag on the belly near the Umbilicus. This being so largely described by Lucas Schroekius in his Historia Moschi not long since published, I shall refer to him, for a further account of it. But it may be expected perhaps I should give some farther reasons for the name I have bestowed on our Hog: and the rather too, since no Author has call'd it a perfume, but branded it as the greatest Stink; As is already ob~ Vid. Philosoph. Transact. No. 144 p. 38. served [379] served by that great Caution they give, of cutting it out, least it spoils all the other flesh, Jo. Faber labours much to give an account, how this horrid faetor should happen. And having fallen into one errour, in supposing it a Navel; that leads, and praecipitates him into others. And makes him fancy sometimes it may be from the Urine; whose Virulent Steams may come here, by the Urachus. Other times he knows not, but that an Intestine likewise may be fastened there: but is most of all nclinable to think, 'tis from the Urinaculum as he calls it. Thus he observes what an horrid Stink the Urine of Cats will make, where it lights. But here I must remark that in rendring their Urine, at the same time, they may empty their Scentbags seated at the Rectum, which mixing with it, in a great measure, may give it it's strong faetor. So the same of Rats, and Mice, of a Fox when hunted, &c. And I am apt to think 'twas by removing these Scent-bags rather, then taking out the Kidneys; that they made the Sarigoy edible, which otherwise stank so much, that the Barbarous Natives refused them, as out of Lerius, Jo. Faber takes notice. This Stink therefore or Smell in our Tajacu, come not from any other parts; but is naturally separated here. As is the Musk, the Civet, the Castor, the smell of a Fox, of the Pole-Cat, &c. in their proper ScentGlands, and Scent-bags. Nor am I any thing concerned, that others say it Stinks, when I would make it a perfume; Or do I, question, but that their Sense, and Noses were as good as mine: Since I know, that the best perfumes sometimes make the greatest Stinks. Civet, nay Musk it self when fresh, and green, and in large quantities, are no ways agreeable, but very offensive to the smell; as many have observed, And what is more too, such is Ambergrease at the first, as e Gul. Piso does assure us. Quod equidem mirum (saith he) cum omnis, ante insolationem, molle tantum gluten sit Ambra; ingratoque adeo odore nares se~ G. Piso de sndiae utriusque re Nat. & Med. ~. 1. p. 17. riens, [380] riens, ut ab inexpertis plane respuatur. Our Tajacu, therefore when young, and when but a small quantity of this liquor is separated by this Gland; may afford but little, or no Scent. So Foxes till they are well grown, do not much Stink; but afterwards, when in great plenty this juice is voyded; by it's copiosness, and being thin, and fluid, and so more vapourable; it might strike our Organs with such brisk, and nimble strokes; as to create a pain; whereas a more leasurely appulse of it's particles from a lesser; and concreted body, may give a pleasure. As the feirce rayes of a scorching fire, does excite a dolorous sense; whenas it is delighted, and refreshed by the gentler beams of a moderate Sun. Our Tajacu, therefore no doubt, when this gland does very liberally discharge it's liquor, may be thought to stink; and yet this stink in time, may become a perfume. Thus that faetid liquor in the Scent-bags of a Weasel; having formerly put it on a paper, and kept it a little while; afforded me a pleasant smell. Why therefore we perceived no stink at first, upon the diffection of this Gland; but rather a sweet, and pleasant smell, (if it is otherwise in the Countries where they breed) this may be the reason; be cause it had been dead some days, before I examined this part. And then I found but a small quantity of an incrassated liquor there. Tho' I must acknowledge that I was informed that when it was alive; it was observed by the family, where 'twas kept; that whereever it went, it left a good perfume behind it. This I am sure of, that when twas dead, and observed by me, and several others; it yielded a fragrant one, which I think is sufficient to justifie, or at least to excuse the Name I have given it. And now to give a short account of the Sceleton and so to end; we observed that the Cranium, seemed entire, without sutures. From the Nose, to the end of the Pole 8 ~ Inches. Here the Cranium grew very narrow; and then did spread it self again triangularwise, and behind made a large hollow where it respected the back; and where [381] where were inserted strong Muscles, and the ligament from the back, I formerly mentioned; by which means the head is kept so straight up; that when alive, he seemed to have but a very short if any Neck at all. The Porus auditorius or passage to the Eare was something remarkable; being placed near the Pole, and is represented by letter (h) in the Sceleton. In the upper Jaw before were four Teeth or Incisores. A little farther was placed a large flat Tusk, sharp edged; and standing outwards; and beyond that, of each side, six double Teeth or Molares. In the Baby Roussa there are but five; and abating the largeness of the Tusk, in the lower Jaw; and those Horns (as d Dr. Grew asserts them to be; who calls this Animal a Horned Hog) in the upper; in almost all other respects, the bones of the head here, were like those of that Animal. The lower Jaw was 6 ~ Inches long; 1 ~ broad at the first double Tooth, of which there were fix of each side. The bone of the lower Jaw here, from the Dentes Molares, to the Incisores; seemed spongy and carious; and the Tusks in this Jaw, were rotted out; as were one, or two of the Incisores; which in all were about four. There were seven Vertebrae of the Neck; which measured in length 4 ~ Inches. The first or Atlas, had two broad transverse processes, but no spine. The second had a broad large spine. The third, fourth, fifth, had no spines; the sixth, and seventh, had large acute ones. There were nineteen Vertebrae of the back; the spines of the first, second, and third, were about three Inches long; but they gradually decreased, as they approached the Tayle. The first Vertebra of the Os Coccygis, was two Inches long. but I thought, that first it might have been several; tho' now 'twas but one bone. There were about six Vertebraemore; which ran no farther then the extent of the Os Ischij. d Musaeum Regal. Societar. p. 27. There [382] There were fourteen Ribs of each side, The Os Sterni jutted out about an Inch, beyond the setting on of the first Ribs, The Scapula was five Inches long. The Os femoris of the fore foot, 5 ~ Inches long. The Os Tibiae of the fore foot, about the same length in the whole: but from the juncture with the Os femoris, to the Os Metatar si twas but four Inches. For from the juncture with the Thigh-bone, it jutted out further as in the Fig. The bones of the Tarsus were five: of the Metatarsus there, about two Inches long. The bones of the Digiti nine; there being three, to each Claw; and three Claws on each fore foot. The Os femoris of the hinder foot, was almost six Inches long; and near it's juncture with the Os Tibiae it had a small bone, like the Patella in the knee of a Man. In the leg here were two bones: the Focile majus, and minus five Inches, and half long. But this part in the fore leg was only a single bone; tho' in a Dog, a Munky and some other Animals there are two bones in the fore-leg likewise. The Os Calcis was almost two Inches long; and there were four other bones of the Tarsus or instep. The Metatarsus or foot was composed of four bones; but the two inwardmost much the largest; being 2 ~ long, there were four digiti; in each three bones; whereof the last was covered with a Nail. The [383] The Explanation of the Figures. Taeb. 1. Fig. 1. Represents the natural shape of this ~ Mexico Hog: and the line marked (a) points to the Scent Gland, on the hinder part of the back. Fig. 2. Gives a view of the Sceleton. a The force Teeth or Incisores. b The Tusk. c c The Grinders, or Molares. d The Lower Jaw. e That part of the Lower Jaw, which was carious. f The Cranium. g The Orbit of the Eye. h The Porus Auditorius, or passage to the Eare. i The traingular Expansion of the Cranium backbards. k The Vertebrae of the Neck. l l The Vertebrae of the Back and Loyns. m The Vertebrae of the Os Coccygis. n n The Ribs. o The protuberant bone of the Sternum. p The Scapula or shoulder blade. q The Os Ischij. r r The Os Femoris or Thigh bones. s The Patella of the hinder legs. t The Tibia of the fore leg. u A large protuberancy of the Tibiae. w The Tibia or Fossile majus of the hinder leg. x The Fibula or Fossile minus of the hinder leg. y y The Tarsus or Instep on both legs. z The Calx or heel in the hinder leg. ~ ~ ~ The bones of the Metatarsus or Foot. ~ ~ ~ The Digiti or Toes. ~ ~ ~ The Nails. Fig. 3. Shews the Orifice of the Scent Glands, as it naturally appeared on the outside of the Skin of the back; which from some small resemblance it had, imposed on all almost hitherto, to beleive it an Umbilicus, or Navel a little space round this Orifice was almost bare of Bristles. Fig. 4. Exactly represents, in it's natural dimensions, the Scent Gland E e e it [384] it self; which was Conglomerated, or made up of abundance of lesser glandules. Fig. 5. In this Scheme are delieneated most of the Viscera in the belly; being taken out of the body. Where A The Oesophagus or Gullet. B The first Ventricle or Stomack. C The second Ventricle or Stomack. d d The Cornua or horns of the second Stomack. E The third Stomack. f The Pylorus. g g g. The Intestina tenuia, or small guts. H H H. The Colon. i The Caecum. k The Rectum. l The Mensentery. m m The Meseraick Vessels. n The Pancreas. o The Spleen. P ~ Liver. q The Ductus of the Gall from the Liver to the Duodenum. Tab. 2. Fig. 1. Represents the Stomack opened. A The Oesophagus or gula. b The entrance of the Gula, or gullet into the first Stomack. C C The inside of the first Stomack, which was invested with a strong thick white pellicle or membrance. D D The second Stomack, E E The third Stomack in which were remarkale several Plicae or folds. f The Pylorus. Fig. 2, Represents the outside of the three Stomacks more in their natural Situation. A The ~. B The first Stomack. C The second Stomack. D The third Stomack. E The Pylorus. f f f The blood Vessels, Fig. [385] Fig. 3 Represents the Genital parts, and the bladder. A The bladder of Urine. B The neck of the Bladder. C C The Ureters. D D The Testes, or Stones. e e The V aja deferentia. f f The Vesiculae seminales, which here were glandulous. g The Caput Gallinaginis, where the Vesiculae seminales, and Vasa defe~ empty themselves into the Urethra. h h Two glandulous bodies, which possibly may be reckoned the Prostatae. i The orifices by which these glandulous bodies empty themselve into the Urethra. K The Urcthra opened. L The Penis. M M Two Muscles belonging to the Penis. N N Other Muscles assisting to the same. Fig. 4. Shews the heart, and the Aneurismata of the Arteria Aorta, or great Artery. A The heart. b b The ascending branches of the great Artery. c The descending Trunk of the great Artery. D The first Aneurisma, or distinction of the great Artery opened to shew its several cells within. e A straightning of the Artery again. f The second Aneurisma opened likewise. g The third or smallest Aneurisma. h h The Iliac branches of the great Artery. E e e 2 Re. 