LXXX. An Account of a Water-Spout, rais'd off the Land, in Deeping-Fen, Lincolnshire; by the Rev. Mr. Benjamin Ray, of Cowbit near Spalding in that County; communicated to the Society at Spalding, on the 7 of May 1752, by Maurice Johnson, Esq; and by him to the Royal Society. IN the year 1752, on the 5 of May, a very uncommon phaenomenon appear'd about 7 in the evening, in Deeping-Fen, which, from its effects, I take to be a water-spout, broken from the clouds; nor can it admit, in my opinion, of any other solution. Read May 28, 1752. A watry substance, as it seemed to me, was seen moving upon the surface of the earth and water, in Deeping-Fen. It marched along with such violence and rapidity, that it carried every thing before it; such as grass, straw, and stubble; and in its going over the country bank, it raised the dust to a great height; and when it arrived in the wash, in the midst of the water, and just over against where I live, then it was, that I first saw it; and here it was, that it stood still for some minutes. How dreadful was [478] was it to behold this moving phaenomenon, now fix'd ~ to see, as it were, a law of nature inverted! for this <inferred>watery</inferred> substance spouted out water from its own surface, to a considerable height, and all the time attended with a terrible noise, so as all the beasts and sheep ran from it, greatly frighted. Upon its second route, proceeded in a side-line into the river, breaking in its passage a fishing-net, and there it moved along, till it came to the church, where it stood again some little while, and then made its next passage thro' the space, that is between the church and the parsonage-house, towards Weston hills and Moulton chapel. In its way to these places, it tore up a field of turnips, broke a gate off the hinges, and another gate it broke to pieces. Those, who saw it evaporate, affirm it ascended into the clouds in a long spearing vapour, and at last ended in a siery stream. There was a mist, like smoke, frequently round it. Three more were seen at the same time in different places. P. S. When this was read to the Society at Spalding, several of the members present attested, that they themselves saw this phaenomenon in most circumstances the same as here described; excepting only the last of a fiery stream. But to some other people, who gave accounts of it to them, it did so appear. LXXXI. 