XVII. A Letter from Charles Jernegan, M. D. Lic. Coll. Med. Londin. to Cromwell Mortimer, M. D. Secr. R. S. concerning an extraordinary Cystis in the Liver, full of Water. S I R, I H O P E you will excuse the Liberty I take in communicating to you an uncommon case or Disorder of the Liver, lately observed at the opening the Body of Mrs. A. B. deceased, Q q 2 aged Read March 14. 1744-5. [306] aged near Forty, whom I had attended some Weeks before. The Complaint was a constant acute Pain on the Region of the Liver, with a Swelling, or more than ordinary Fullness on that Side; by pressing of which was perceived a Fluctuation of some Fluid lying deeper than just under the first Teguments. This was confirmed by Mr. Sherwood, the Surgeon who assisted and examined the same. The Body was opened by his Son Mr. Sherwood junior, when the Liver was found of a prodigious Size (there was a small Adhesion to the Peritonaeum without Inflammation): It spread over the Stomach quite to the Spleen on the left Side, and contracted much the Cavity of the Thorax, by pressing and thrusting up the Diaphragma. On opening the great Lobe of the Liver, there issued out above four Quarts of a limpid Water, from a Cavity formed by the proper containing Coat of the Liver; tho' the Water itself had been contained in a single conglobated Gland, and there formed a Cystis, which had burst, and was found loose at the Bottom of this large Cavity. This Skin or Cystis was not so thin but still capable of further Expansion. The Liver still did its Function of separating the Gall: The Gall-bladder and its Ducts were in a good State: The Lobulus Spigelii was much inlarg'd, and crumbled easily like a Mass of congealed Blood. The Patient had no particular Thirst; nor was there any Alteration in the Urine, as to Quantity more or less. But she had this Symptom, common in the Hydrops Pectoris, of not bearing any other Posture [307] Posture but that of leaning forwards on her Breast. I am, with all Respect, S I R, March 10. 1744. Your most obedient Humble Servant, Ch. Jernegan. The left Kidney, being longer than usual, was examined and found to have two Ureters; and each had its separate Pelvis. 