An Account of two Books. I. H I S T O R I A C A E L E S T I S; Ex Libris & Commentariis M.Stis. Observationum Vicennalium T YC H O N I S B R A H E, Dani, Augustae Vindelic. An. 1666. in Folio. THese Observations of the Noble Tycho, as they were pro. cured and preserv'd by those Three Mighty Emperours, R U D O L P H. II. F E R D I N A N D. II. and III; so they were lately by the Command of his Imperial Majesty L EO P O L D made publick. They are usher'd in by a Liber ~rologomenos, compendiously representing the Observations made from the time of the very Infancy of Astronomy unto that of its Restauration by the Illustrious Tycho ~ and reduced into 7. Classes, viz. 1. The Babylonian Observations; from A. before Christ 721. unto A. 432. 2. The Grecian; from A. before Christ 432. unto the beginning of the Vulgar Christian Account. 3. The Alexandrian; from A. Christi 1. until A. 827. 4. The Syro-Persian; from A. C. 827. unto 1457. 5. The Norimbergian; from A. C. 1457. unto 1509. 6. The (869) 6. The Borussian; from A. C. 1509. to 1529. 7. Mixt Observations; from A. C. 1529. to 1582. In which year (1582) do begin the Observations of Tycho (as it affirm'd in this Edition) contain'd in 20 Books, and made in as many years, ending An. Chr. 1601, which was the end of Tycho's Life: Of which time yet there being wantiug one year (uiz. 1593) of the Brabean Observations, that is supply'd by the Hessian; and by a Catalogue of the Fixt Stars, made and digested by the Authority and Care of that Renowned Prince for Leatning and Magnanimity, William, Landgrave of Hessen, and by the Labours of Rhotmannus and Birgius. To all these is added a Continuation of such Astronomical Observations as were made from the time of Tycho's death unto An. 1635, by Maestlinus and Schickardus. Having given the Reader this short Account, I find my self obliged to give him notice withall of a Paper publish'd this year, entituled Specimen Recognitionis nuper editarum Observationum Astronomicarum, Nob. Viri Tychonis Brahe, printed at Copenhagen in 4~: wherein are remark'd by Erasmius Bartolinus the more considerable Errors in the Observations of An. 1582. In this Edition of the Histor. Caelestis, by comparing it with the Original, in the power of the present King of Denmark. In which Paper hopes also are given of a more correct Edition, and that of the Original it self; together with the Observations both from An. 1563. to An. 1582. and those of An. 1593; all wanting in this Edition of Ausburgh. II. R. P. ANDRE AE TACQUET e Soc. J. Opera Mathematica; with many Schematismes thereto belonging. Antwerp. 1669. in Fol. These Works contain, 1. Of Astronomy 8 Books, wherein the Author hath explain'd the whole Doctrine of that Science in such a gradual Scientifick Order, that now (as himself in his own Preface intimates) a Student without the Aid of a Master may learn the whole by his own Study, which was formerly not easie to attain with the best Instructions. It may be, the Inquisitive Reader will be desirous to know, what Systeme of the World it is, this Author insistson; concerning which we shall give you his own words, p. 326. Hanc controverfiam (sc. de Motu Terrae) Joh. B. Ricciolus Almag. 1. 9. ea tum eruditione tum copia prosecutus est, ut facile omnes in hoc negotio superauerit. Primo, Copernicanorum pro Motu Terrae Argumenta 49. deducit ac destruit; pari deinde cura, quae contra Terrae Motum afferri solent & possunt Argumenta, uid. 77. recenset. Mihiuero, cum nihil hactenus in utramuis partem adductum uideam, quod Probabilitatis metam excedat, hu immorari non est animus. Unum est tamen ex omnibus contra Terrae Motum F ffff ipsius (870) psius Riccioli Argumentum a Gravium descensu petitum, cui uim ipse Demonstrationis inesse putat; quod examinare hoc loco accuratius opera pretium judicavi. This with other Arguments he refutes; but declareth p. 330. That, though he knows no Argument, demonstrating the Rest of the Earth and Motion of the Sun; yet the Authority of Holy Writ, now seconded by that of the Sacred Congregation of the Cardinals, put it out of doubt. Concerning the Doctrine of Motion, the Author saith thus, p. 15. Motuum Compositorum Contemplatio digna sane est, quae a Geometris excolatur. De solo motu Volutionis conscripsi Tract atum integrum, quem cum libris Cylindricorum & Annularium in lucem edidi. De Motu Projectorum, qui & ipse Compositus est, subtilissimi exstant Libri Galilaei & Torricellii: Et praeter haec, alia supersunt innumera, de quibus integra Noua Scientia condi possit. (Which is accordingly done by the Excellent Dr. Wallis in his Book now in the Press.) For the ease of Calculating an Eclipse of the Sun, we find, that this Author p. 177. determines, in what part of the Earth such an Eclipse shall appear, without the Aid of Parallax, and that the Sun's Parallax, as to the determination of Celestial Motions, may be safely neglected. And p. 40. he rejects the Sensible Inequality of the Solar or Tropical years; as also p. 60. the Irregularity of the Obliquity of the Ecliptick, of the Procession of the Equinoxes and Excentricity. Pag. 127. he solves that Doubt of Ricciolus, That it cannot be exactly and evidently known by any Natural Observations made of the Moon or any Star, what the Parallax is, without the fore-knowledge of the Parallax, or distance from the Earth. And p. 193. avoids these Inconveniences in assigning the Declinations of the Fixed Stars. P. 338. this Author asserts, that the Comets and New Stars, that have appear'd since 1572, have been far above the Moon; and that Ricciolus about this Controversie seem'd too favourably inclined to Claramontius, afferting the contrary. Concerning the Cause of the Secondary light of the Moon before and after the New, to wit, the obscure part of her appearing like kindled glittering Ashes, our Author assigns it to be the Suns rays reflected from the bright Hemisphere of the Earth to the darker portion of the Moon, and thence again directly reflected to the Earth destitute of the Sun's light This Phenomenon he faith, is learnedly explain'd in Philos. Optica Nic. Zucchii from p. 247 to p. 260. The Author hath not framed nor annex'd any Tables to his Book, although he abundantly shews, How they may be computed: referring his Reader to those of Tycho, Reinholdus, Longomontanus, Kepler, Lansberg, Wendelinus, Bullialdus, Petauius, Reinerius, Ricciolus; to which may be added those of Duret, Billy, Street (which last fixes the Nodes and Aphelions) and Wings, now in the Prefs. To the end of these 8 Books are annext Proportions for the 28 Cafes of Spherical (871) Spherical Trigonometry. Those that desire to be farther satisfied, may read Trigonometria Britannica of Gellibrand and Newton, the Idea Trigonometriae by the Lord Bishop of Savum, Dr. Seth Ward; and also Bonavent. Caualerii Trigonometria, and his Directcrium Universale Uranometricum, but especially his Compendio delle Regole Trigonometriche & Centuria di Problemi. 2. Of Practical Geometry 3 Books. In the First the Author handleth The Construction of the Tables of Sines, Tangents, and Secants. The Resolution of Right-lined Triangles. The Mensuration of the distance of Objects, as well unaccessible as accessible. The Heights of Mountains, Towers, Clouds, Rainbowes: the Depths of Wells and Vallies. He concludes the perpendicular height of the burning Mountain AEtna to exceed 5 Bononian Miles; of Mount Caucasus beyond the Caspian-Sea to be 51. Mount Athos of Greece 28. Casius of Syria 20. the Alpes of Italy and Pic of Tenariffe 10 Miles. The Circumference of the Earth, the Distances of the Sun, Moon, and Earth. In the second Book, he handles the Dimension of Plain Surfaces, either Regular or Irregular, and takes the Ichnography or Description in Paper, of any Figure given of the surface of the Earth: Asserts the Possibility of the Quadrature of the Circle; and handles the Transformation of Plain Pigures, to wit, their Addition, Substraction, Augmentation, Diminution, Comparison; further the dividing of a Plain Triangle, in a given Reason by a line passing through a Point any where assigned: This he doth largely in 16 Propositions, because upon it chiefly depends the Division of other Right-lined Figures; and because he found divers Determinations wanting, when the point is given within. Those that are desirous to see this Analytically done, may find it in Herigon with a Construction thereof; as also a Geometrick Construction thereof in Van Schootens Miscellanea; and another most excellent Construction at the end of Van Ceulen de Circulo & Adscriptis. Afterwards our Author proceeds to the dividing of other Figures, in a given Reason, or by parallel lines, and sheweth how to apply the whole to Practice in the Field. In the third Book the Author first measureth such Solids as are contained under a Plain Surface. Secondly, such as are contained under a Curved Surface. Thirdly, He measureth the Mundane Bodies, as the Surface of the whole Earth; where he is pleased to conclude, that at the Day of Judgement, a less protion of it then England, will serve to hold all its Inhabitants, and their Infants, that ever have been, or in likelihood may be hereafter, till then, supposing the World should last 10000 years. He measureth also the Solidity of the Earth, and Ocean; the Magnitude of the Sun, Moon, P ffff 2 and (872) and Earch. The Increase, and Diminution, the Transformation and Comparison of divers Solids, and the Mensuration of divers of their Surfaces. 3. Of Opticks 3 Books. In the first, he handleth the simple and direct Appearances of Objects meaning such appearances as are not liable to Reflection or Refraction; and herein he saith, that passing by slight matters, he onely treats of such as are either new, or of the better esteem; such as are the Properties of the sight, the manner of its perceiving a Distance; and the Place of the Eye being assigned, to find that Height, in which a greater Length or Breadth shall appear equall to a lesser Length or Breadth, or any assigned Length or Breath shall appear in a given Proportion. He likewise finds the Portion of a Cone or Cylinder, seen according to the Magnitude of the Figure, and Position of the Eye, and explains the Moons Phases. In the 2d. He handles the Theory and Practice of the Perspective or Scenographick Projection, or Transcription of a given Magnitude into a Plain, which cuts the Optick Pyramid; wherein he explains the Direct appearance, and the Monstrous deformation of an Object, which at a certain place shall appear beautiful. In the 3d. He treats of the Astronomick Projections of the Spheare, and thence derives the triple Astrolabe, and shews their uses, and the Conveniences or Inconveniences of each Projection: viz. the Projection on the Plain of the ' AEquator, the Eye being in one of the Poles; or on the Plain of the Colure of the Solstices, the Eye being in one of the AEquinoctial Points; and the Orthographick Projection, by Perpendiculars falling from the respective Points of the Circles of the Spheare, on the Projecting Plain: Such a Projection, if the Plain be the Meridian, Ptolomy called the Analemma. If the Eye be in the Zenith or Nadir projecting on the Plain of the Horizon, the Author sheweth, that the Projection will be the same, as if the Eye were in one of the Poles projecting on the Plain of the AEquator, onely the names of Circles are changed. Pag. 205. Nam Circulus qui in illa referebat AEquatorem, in hac Horizontem repraesentat; & Projecturae Tropicorum reliquorumq; AEquatori parallelorum in illa, in hac sunt Projecturae parallelorum Horizonti Seu Almicanlarath: rursum qui in illa sunt Projecturae Horizontis, Almicantarath & Verticalium, in hac projecturae erunt AEquatoris & Parallelorum ejus, ac Meridianorum. Postremo rectae lineae, quae per Centrum Projectionis ductae, erant projecturae Meridianorum in illa, in hac erant Verticalium Projecturae; quare qui illius Projectionis modum probe intellexerit, hanc quoq; nullo negotio perficiet. If (873) If this had been well observed, there had been no need of Controverting, Whether the Horizontall Projection had been a New Invention: It is as Ancient as Ptolomy, and all the 4 Quadrants of several contrivances published by Mr. John Collins*, are derived from the Western side, or the continuance thereof, admitting but a meer Mutation of the Names of Circles, and a projecting of more Parallels. *Thes Quadrants, printed, may very conveniently be pasted on Copper-Plates, and varnisht; which done, they will be not only very cheap and portable (to be had at John Marks at the Sign of the Golden Ball near Somerset-House) but afso serviceable enough, being preserv'd by the Varnish from the accidental injuries of Ink and Dirt; and for these very causes made publick, serving for an Example to introduce the like way for other Mathematical Instruments. 4. Of Catoptricks 3 Books; in the First of which the Author treats of Catoptricks or Reflection. In the Second, of the affections of Plain Glasses simply, or of many such; placed either in a Parallel or Inclined Position to each other. In the Third, of Curved Glasses, and therein first the chief affections of Convex Sphaerick Glasses; afterwards of Concave Sphaerick Glasses: lastly of Burning Glasses of several kinds. The death of the Author prevented him from Writing of the Dioptricks, which was very far advanced by Des Chartes, and hath been further promoted since by De Beaune, Honorato Fabri, Manzini, and in the Century of Optick Problems of Eschinardus, and we may hope that ere long the learned Mr. Barrow will enrich the World with his Labours of this and other kinds; also Mr. James Gregorie, the Author of Optica Promota, hath a Treatise of this Subject in good forwardness for the Press. 5. Follows the Authors Treatise of Military Architecture or Fortification; in which he hath collected six several ways of Regular Fortification, and hath likewise divers ways for Irregular ones, when the Scituation of the place so requires; and intersperseth divers questions, and relates some Transactions in the late eminent Sieges of Christendome. 6. Follow his Annularia & Cylindrica; the first 4 Books whereof were first publisht in 1651, and are common enough to be had here; which may make the Reader wonder at their being reprinted; especially considering, that though they have deservedly received much applause, yet they have likewise been censur'd for opposing and neglecting other Methods, whereby the Author might have rendred, what he delivers, more universally and briefly. Concerning the first 4 Books, Ant. Lalovera in his Book de Geometr. veterum promota thus; Sero venerunt in manus nostras R. P. Tacqueti Rb. 4. Cylindricorum & An nularium: Opus censemus absolutissimum, ejusq; Authori, qui primus ha~ de re suas lucubrationes vulgavit, istam coronam debitam esse agnoscimus. And Stephen. Angeli in his Treatise de Infinitis Parabolis, deque Infinitis Sollidis etc. (printed at Venice 1659.) in the Preface begins thus. Publici (874) Publici Juris fecimus elapso anno 1658. libeilum quendam, cui titulus, Sexaginoa Problemata Geometrica: In hujus calce Appendiculam adjunximus, in qua occuritur Mario Bettino, Cavaleriana Indivisibilia veluti Daemonas pavent i. Paucis vero transactis diebus a modo dicti Libelli impressione, incidimus forte Venetiis in opus Aureum And. Tacquet, CYLINDRICA & ANNULARIA nuncupatum; in quo cum incideremus in Schol. prop. 12.l.1. Authorem carpere Indivisibilia invenimus. Doluimus vehementer (saith Angeli) Opus tanta eruditione refertum non prius admanus nostras pervenisse; censura autem in ipso contra Indivisibilia pronunciata, parum aut nihil nos turbat: Vetera enim continet & non nisi eorum modica, & imbecilliora, quae prius ab ipso Cavalerio in Praefat. Geometriae Indivisibilium, & a Guldino in Centro-baryca objiciuntur; quibus satis superque occurrit ipse Cavalerius. And Angeli in the Preface of his Treatise De Infinitorum Spiralium Spatiorum Mensura (Venetiis 1660.) having occasion to mention the fruitless endeavour of Guldin in finding the Center of Gravity of a Spiral Line, and a Right line equal thereto, saith thus; P. Guldinus, Centrobarycae (Anno 1635. & 1640. editae) Author famo sus (at Cavalerianorum Indivisibilium contemptor & irrisor, qui dum Indivisibilibus irrisit, seipsum ridiculum praebuit) altius omnibus volatum sumpsit, at conatu irrito, & Icari fine, ut ipsemet fatetur. But Guldinus doth not confess himself in an error in opposing Cavalier's Geometria Indivisibilium, publisht 1632; but saith, he was very aged, of an infirme memory, and that he had not (as we may gather) leisure to peruse it throughly, when he had health, nor health when he had leisure. The Controversie, and the Reply about it, is exceeding pleasant, and to be found with other considerable Miscellanies in the Geometr. Exercitat. of Cavalerius printed at Bononia 1647. Which Book if Tacquet had seen (for he quotes it not) he would probably not have made any such opposition. Angeli doth not only answer what is objected by Tacquet, but shews, what famous Authors he hath on his side, who have derived many excellent Inventions from this Method of Indivisibles, viz. Beaugrand, Rocca, Magiottus, Van Schoten, Rich. White, Bullialdus, Torricellius, who calls Cavalier's First Book the Ocean of Indivisibles, and the Fountain of Inventions. Of which Doctrine he renders many excellent Examples. Moreover the same Angeli in the Preface to his said Tract, De Infinit. Spiral. Spatiorum Mensura, hath these words: Pro Indivisibilibus est veritasipsa, stantque illiomnes praeclarissimi Geometrae, quos in Epist. ad Lectorem Operis nostri De Infinitis Parabolis recensuimus; quibus nuper ultro se associavit Vinc. Viviani l. 1. De Maximis & Minimis, monito post Prop. 17. ubi ait, Ut hoc loco, ex adverso indirectae Antiquorum viae per duplicem positionem, luce clarius pateat, quantum facilitatis, brevitatis, atque evidentiae nanciscatur e nova direct aque methodo (recte tamen (875) tamen cautequousurpata) acutissimi Cavalerii; per Indivisibilium doctrinam nobis amicissimam. And when thus carefully to apply it, of that see Lalovera's Elementa Tetragonismica Tolosae 1651, where more Archimedeo he demonstrates the truth of this Method; which Book if Angeli had seen, he would certainly have quoted it, and admired the Author For want of this Method, it was, saith Angeli, by way of complaint, of Tacquet, that he omitted some Theorems, which by aid there of he might easily have found out. See him in his Preface to his Infinite Spirals; but especially at Schol. 3. Prop. 15. l. 2. siergo Tacquet recepisset doctrinam Cavalerii, potuisset non solum Cubare portionem Cylindrici Parabolici super quacunque Infinitarum Parabolarum per Basin Parabolae & Punctum in latere; sed etian exiis, quae in Exercitat. 4. Cavalerii tradunt ipse & Beaugrand, potuisset Cubare Segmenta portionis cujuseunque Cylindrici Parabolici resectae planis sectioni maximae parallelis: Imo ex doctrinae Cavalerii potuisset etiam Cubare, & portionem Cylindrici super Hyperbola per basin Hyperbolae & Punctum in latere, & segmenta hujus portionis resectae planis sectioni maximae parallelis (suppositatamen Hyperbolae Quadratura.) Angeli finds afterwards another deservedly famous Man, viz. Dr. John Wallis, owning and using the Method of Indivisibles, and advancing it to admiration in his Arithmetica Infinitorum; who in his Book de Cycloide at Oxford 1659, saith thus, Pag. 9. Supponimus enim (quodet facile, si opus est, probabitur) Planum quodvis tantundem huju smodi conversione (seu Rotatione) producere, quantum est quod fit ex eodem Plano in lineam ipsius Centro gravitatis descriptam ducto; quod & de linea quavis sive recta sive curva, in co Plano descripta, pariter intelligendum est: Quod quidem enim ipse olim me primum invenisse putaverim, monitus moxeram, nonnihil apud Guldinum exstare quod huc spectet. Id autem si animadvertisset Tacquetus, dum de Cylindricis & Annu'aribus acutum Opus conscripsit, nonparum illi fuisset adjumento, multaque quae illic extant, tum Universalius tum contractius forte fuissent edita. All which is not recited here, to disparage our Author, but to take off the prejudice, which he may beget in his Readers against the Method of Indivisibles, which hath been owned by other famous Men, besides those already recited; viz. by Mengolus, who from the Excellencies of this Method, Archimed's Method, and Vieta's Specious Algebra, compos'd his Geometria Speciosa; by Antimo Varby, alias (as 'tis suggested) Hon. Fabri in Tract. De Linea Sinuum & Cycloide; by Pascal, alias Dettonville; by Des Cartes himself Vol. 3. of Letters, who saith, that by it he squared the Cycloid, and lately by the excellent Slusius, &c. 2. To remove the other prejudice that may be against this Author as defective: for the 5th Book Cylindricorum & Annularium (now printed with the rest) the Prefacer asserts to be first extant in 1659. And because we presume, the rest of these Books are already known and common, and that this hath not formerly been expos'd to sale in England; and because also it supplies and compensates those defects, we think fit to acquaint the Reader with the Argument thereof. The Author divides this Fifth Book into six parts: 1. In the first he demonstrates (in 6 Lemma's and 9 Propositions) That, if any Plain Surface have a Rotation about its Axis in any Situation whatsoever, and at any distance whatsoever, or none, it produceth a Round Solid equal to an Upright Solid, whose Base is the begetting Figure igure, and Height is equal to the Circumference described by its Center of Gravity. (This Universal Rule was invented by Guldin, and is the Basis of most of his Doctrine; but he could not demonstrate the same, though 'twas much desired.) 2. In like manner, If any Perimeter have a Rotation about its Axis in any Situation whatsoever, it begets around Surface, equal to a right Surface, made by the same Perimeter as a Base (which may be evolv'd and made a Plain Surface) whose height is the way or circumference described by its Center of Gravity. This by 5 Lemma's and 10 Propositions. These (876) These being two admirable Universal Rules in Geometry, the Reader will find the Same (with many others) demonstrated by Dr. VVallis in his Trea ise De Caculo Centr Gravitatis, which together with his other Tracts, De Motu, Statica, Mechanica, are now at the Press in London. The same Rules are likewise demonstrated in Geometriae patte Universali Jacobi Gregorii Scoti, Patavii 1668. Of which a competent number of Copies is expected here. The Methods of these Learned Men are different, and good Arguments might be given, that they have not communicated nor seen the Works of each other. Guldinus, l. I. C. 12. shews a Mechanick way to find the Center of Gravity of a Surface or Curv'd Line, by 2 free suspensions, from the points of which, perpendiculars being drawn, do cross each other at the Center of Gravity. This we mention, to keep the Reader from taking the Center of Gravity of a Curv'd Line as such (which is intended in this 2d Rule) to be the same with the Center of Gravity of the Figure thereby terminated in the first Rule. 3. Considers the Affections of Round Solids, begot from a Parabola, in 10 Propositions from Numb. 20. to 29. both inclusive; whereof the 21 and 23 gives the Hoos required by Angeli, which was formerly cubed by Greg. de S. Vincentio. In the 27th Prop. he gives the Proportion of the Parabolical Conoid to the Spindle made of the same Parabola by rotation about its Base, to be, As the Base of the Parabola is to 16/15 of the Axis; shewing, that Guldinus err'd through forgetfulness. In Prop. 29. he delivers, that the Parabola bears such a proportion to a Circle describ'd about the Base thereof as a Diameter, As the Axis of the Parabola doth to that Circumference of a Circle, whose Radius is equal to the distance of the Center of Gravity of the Semi-Parabola from the Axis. 4. Contains divers endeavors and manifold new ways towards the obtaining the Quadrature of the Circle in 12 Propositions. 5. Contains 10 Propositions, from 41 to 51; in the 42th whereof he finds a Sphere equal to an Hyperbolical Ring-Solid; whence divers ways are open'd towards the attaining the Quadrature of the Hyperbola: And he finds a Sphere equal to a Ring made by the Retation of a Segment of an Hyperbola, and of the Segment of a Circle thereto annexed, described about the Base of the Hyperbola as a Chord Line: Then he absolutely cubes certain Hoofs cut out of an Hyperbolical Cylinder, and thence derives other ways towards the obtaining the Quadrature of the Hyperbola. 6. Delivers 3 Theorems, shewing the proportion between an Hyperbola and a Circle: which are conceived to be wholly new. But these Theorems suppose the Quadrature of both Figures known, viz. That of a Circle, inrequiring the length of the Circumference of a Circle, described by the Center of Gravity of an Hyperbola; which Center cannot be found, without giving the Quadrature or Area of the Hyperbola: which hath been most happily perform'd by M. Mercator in his Logarithmo-Technia and further advanc'd by Dr. Wallis in N. 38. of these Transactions; and by M. Gregorii also further promoted and otherwise perform'd in his Exercitationes Geometricae, where he shews, the same Methods and Approaches to be likewise applicable to the Circle. What we have said, being an Account of one of the most considerable Volumes of Mathematicks extant, we hope we may be the better excused for prolixity. This Author formerly publish'd the Elements of Plain and Solid Geometry in 8~, and an Arithmetick in 8~, wherein he promised a Treatise of Algebra. 