171 IX. On the Composition of ZoZiteI By James Smithson, Esqp F.R. S. Read February 7, i8 II MINERAL bodies being, in fact, native cae;Itia p'eafzi~s perfectly analogous to those ofi the laboratory of ay-t, it is only by che mical meansa tat their species can be ascertained xwitany degree of certainty, especially under all the variations of mechanical state and intimate admixture with each other, towhich they are subject. And accordingly, we see those miethods which profess to supersede the necessity of chemistry in mineralogy, and to decide upon the species of it by other means than her's, yet bringing an unavoidabtle tribute of homag-a to splr r superior powers, by tu rning to he r B a solution of the difficulties which continually arise to t-len, and to obtain firm grounds to relinquish or adopt the conclusions to which the principles they employ, lead them. Zeolite and natrolite have been universally admitted to. be species distinct from each other, from Mr. KLAPROTHi havinpdiscovered a considerable quantity of soda and no lime, in the composition of the latte r while Mr. VAUQUELIN had not found any portion of either of the fixed alkalies, but a considerable one of lime, in his analysis of zeolite.* The natrolite has been lately met with under a regular* Jirna des Aies ,No. XLIV P72 M. SMITHSON On the Composition crystalline form, and this form appears to be perfectly similar to that of zeolite, but Mr. IIAUY has not judged himself warranted by this circumstance, to consider these two bodies as of the same species, because zeolite, he says, " does not contain an atom of soda." * I had inany years ago found soda in what I considered to 0be zeolites, which I had collected in thle island of Staffa, having formed GLAUBER'S salt by treating therm with sulphuric acid; and I hav'e since repeatedly ascertained the presence of the same principle in similar sto .es from various other places ; aid Dr. HUTTON and Dr. KENNEDY, had likewise detected soda in bodies, to which they gave the name. of zeolite. There was, however, no certainty that the subjects of any .of these experiments were of the same nature as what Mr. VAU2UELIN had examined, were of that species which Mr. I-AUY ca"Ls nesotype. ~r. I-J~uAY was so obliging as to send me lately, somne spe. ciimcns of inerals. There happened to be amongst them a cluster of zeolite in rectangular t-trahedrai prisms, terminated by obtuse tet-rahedral pyramids whose faces c~incide-d x ith ithose of the prismn. These cryst-als were of a consldcrable size, and perfectly Io mogne ous, and lab eIied by himl2lt' "frse.ot v ape pyramidiee diu dvpart. dui Piy de Ddmne." I availed myself of this very favoturable opportunity, to ascertain whethkler the mesotype of Mr. HATiY and n~atroii-te, id or did not diffetr in their composition, and the resuits ofwexj.Cpcrimen'ts have been -entirely unfavoutrahle to thvXIr sC paatiorn, as ti'e following Account of them willl show. xo grains of this zeoli e being kept red hot for five minute-* Journal dcs Mines, No. CL. Juin I810, p. 458. of Zeoli. 173 Io0t O.75 jRains, and became opaque and friable. In a second experiment, io grains being exposed for io minutes to a stronger fire, lost o0. grains, and consolidated into a hIard trai-tsparent state. 1o grains of this zeolite, which had not been heated, were reduced to a fine powder, and diluted muriatic acid po0red upon it. n standing some hours, without any appication of heat, the zeolite entirely dissolved, and some hours after, the solution became a jelly: this jelly was evapora'ed to a dry state, and then made red hot. Wateer was repeatedly poured on to this ignfited matter till notling miore could b& extracted from it. This solution w aV gently evaporated to a dry state, and this residuum made slightly red hot. It then weighed 3.15 graims. It was murKll, of Sso4C. The Solution of thi muriate of soda being tri-ed with solu$ tions of carbonate of ammonia and oxalic acid, did not aflbrd the least precipitate, vhich would hav &\ happened had the zeolite co tained any litne, as th muriate of lime* would not hav-e been. decomnposed by the ignition. The remanining mnatter, from vLI tl is mulato of soda had been extractne l was repeatedly difCwsted with marine acid, till all that was solubile was dissolved. What remained was ilica, and, after being made red hot, weig-9ed . grains. The i urkatc solution, wbich had been decanted off from the silica, was exl"aled to a Dry state, and the natter left made red hot. It w2s alumina. * These nat. es ar retained for the present, as being familiar, thoubh, since M r. DAVY'S imnporta t discovery of the nature of what was called oxymuriatic acid, the substances to which they are applied, are known not to be salts, but metallic cornpounds amalogous to oxides. MDCCCXI. Z 174 tM. M ITHSON on the Composition To discover whether any magnesia was contained amongst this alun ma, it ,.vas dissolved in sulphuric acid the solution evaporated to a dry state, and ignited. Water did extract some sali e matter from tlhis ignited alumina, but it had not at all the appearance of sulpI ate of magnesia, and proved to be soaie sulpbate of alunina which had escaped decomposition., for ci a addtcin of slp'nate of ammonia to it, it produced c Cv~tI of coinpound sulhate of alumina and ammonia, in regular octahedronw-. This, aurn and aluinina were again mixed acndl dibested in a. * on ;,nd tthe whole dried and made red hot. The alumina left, w,1--,1ghcd 3.i graiins. Beig suspected to conltain still some sulph1uric acid, thi's alumina was aissolved in nitric acid, and an excess of acetate of barytes added. A precipitate of sulp ) iate of barytes fell, which after being eduicorat-ed and tnade red hot, Weighed 1. grains. If we adImit j of sulphate of barytes to be sulphuric acid, the quantity of the alumina will be 0.4 2.7 grains. From the experiments of Dr. M C ,* it appears tiat .3.15 grains of muriate of soda, afford 1.7 grams of Henceacccr ing to the foregoing experi ents tie io grains of zeolite analysed, consisted of Silica 4-90 Alumina 2.70 Soda ./0 I'ce O. 9 1* Phil. Troans. 1 So Of Zeolite. As these experiments had been undertaken more for the purpose of ascertaining the nature of the component parts of this zeolite than their proportions, the object of them was cons sidered as accomplished, although perfect accuracy in the latter respect, had not been attained, and which, indeed, the analysis wve possess of natrolite by the illustrious chemist of Berlin, renders unnecessary. I am induced to prefer the name of zeolite for this species of stone, to any other name, from an unwillingness to obliterate entirely from the nomenclature of mineralogy, while arbitrary names are retained in it, all trace of one of the discoveries of the greatest mineralogist w ho has yet appeared,; and which, at the time it was made, was considered as, and was, a very considerable one, beinig the first adddion of an earthy species, made by scientific means, to tho,-e estab W.ed immemorially by miners and lapidasi , d hIe co hc v' with tungstein and nickel, led the wyo i A grt andt briiliant extension which mineralogy has <'ce r "ecvcd. And, of the several substances wf&ich, frm the state of science ill his time, certain cotnmon out aes iduzced BoarO CRoNSTEDT to associate togethier under thae ula,.,ne of zc.-ohte2 .'it I's thi's Thich has been most i'mmed tey unyv rsood as such, and whose qualities have been assumrdas t haractrstic ones of the Se ie Indeed, i thinkY that the name >iposed on a substance by the discover r of it, ougit to be held in some degree sacred, and not altered without the mos urguent necessity for do'Ing t It is but a feeb and jut re uto of respect for the service which hte has rendered to science. Professor STRvE, of Latisanne, whose skill i1 mineralogy 7 9 i76 M1i'. SMITHSON ofl we Composilion is well known, having mentioned to me, in one of his letters, that from some experiments of his own, he was led to suspect the existence of phosphoric acid in several stones, and particularly in the zeolite of Auvergne, I have directed my enquiries to this point, but have not found the phosphoric, or aany other acknowledged mineral acid, in this zeolite. Many persons, from experiencing much difficulty in comnprehending the combination together of the earths, have been led to suppose the existence of undiscovered acids in stony crystals. If quartz be itself considered as an acid, to which order of bodies its qualities much more nearly assimilate it, than to the earths, their composition becomes readily intelligible. They will then be neutral salts, silicates, either simple or compound. Zeolite will be a compound salt, a hydrated silicate of alumina and soda, and hence a compound of alumina not very dissimilar to alum. And topaz, whose singular ingredients, discovered by Mr. KLAPROTH, have called forth a query from the celebrated Mr. VAUQUELIN, with regard to the mode of their existence together,* will be likewise a compound salt, consisting of silicate of alumijflO, and fluate of alumina. Our acquaintance with the composition of the several mineral substances, is yet far too inaccurate to render it possible to point out with any degree of certainty, the one of which zeoliteis an hydrate, however the agreement of the two substances in the nature of their constituent parts, and in their being both electrical by heat, directs conjecture towards tourmaline. St 7ames's Place, .7an. zz, i8v I.* Annales du Museum d'Hist. Nat, tome 6, p. Z4. of Zeolite. 177 Addition to the Account of native Minium After I had commun'licated to the President, the account of the discovery of native minium, printed in tle Philosopllicat Transactions for 18o6, I learned that this ore came fron-i ile, lead mines of Breylau in Westphalia, 