[950] XLIII. Account of the Advantages of a newly-invented Machine much varied in its Effects, and very useful for determining the perfect Proportion between different Moveables acting by Levers and Wheel and Pinion. By Mr. Le Cerf, Watch-maker at Geneva; Communicated by Lord Viscount Mahon, F. R. S. Read July 9, 1779. TO SAMUEL HORSLEY, LL.D. S. R. S. Harley Street, S I R, March 19, 1778. HAVING received from Mr. LE CERF, watch-maker at Geneva, two instruments of his invention, with the annexed paper; and being desired by him to present them to the Royal Society, I take the liberty of sending them to you, as secretary of that learned Body. I have perused this interesting treatise, which contains some new and valuable thoughts upon the relative size of wheels and pinions working together; and this being one of the things of the most general use, with respect to the improvement and easy execution of clocks, watches, Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented Compass. 951 watches, and all kind of wheel machines, this paper appears to me to be very worthy of the attention of the Society. It is to be regretted, that the author does not enter into a greater and more minute detail upon the shape of the working-teeth, &c. as this, in my opinion, will, in several cases, materially affect the very simple, general rules which he has elegantly laid down. I am, SIR, with true regard, Your very obedient, humble servant, MAHON. ~ 1. THIS machine may be called a compass of geometrical and mechanical proportion; its property is to resolve a great number of problems analogous to the theory and practice of watch-making, in a manner which is at the same time very evident and infinitely more Description d'une Machine de nouvelle Invention, aussi variee dans ses Effets que necessaire pour determiner les parfaits rapports entre les differens mobiles agissans par Leviers et par Engrenages. Par Monsieur Le Cerf, Horloger a Geneve. ~ 1. ON peut appeller cette machine, compas de proportion geometrique et mechanique, puis qu'il a la propriete de resoudre une quantite de problemes analogues a la theorie et a la pratique de l'horlogerie d'une maniere tres 952 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented more convenient than the mode of arithmetical calculations. ~ 2. The compass of proportion here treated of not only shews the proportion of the diameters between the wheels and the pinions, but serves to determine every species of proportion of the calibers, of the size of pivots, width of pallets, bigness of cylinders, and in general of whatever is an object of dimension. In every case it affords a product, either in unity or fractions, as perfect as the application of it to the mechanism we are considering is easy. ~ 3. Nothing therefore can more conduce to the perfection of watch-making than an instrument which immediately determines all the dimensions and proportions required; dimensions and proportions which could not heretofore be obtained but by means so long, so laborious, tres evidente et infiniment plus commode que par les operations du calcul. ~ 2. Ce compas de proportion dont ce memoire fait l'objet, decide non seulement du rapport des diametres entre les roues et les pignons, mais encore il sert a determiner toutes sortes de proportions, soit des calibres, grosseurs des pivots, largeurs des palettes, grosseurs des cilindres, et generalement de tout ce qui fait objet de dimension; il donne dans tous les cas soit par unites ou par fractions un resultat aussi parfait que facile a appliquer au mechanisme en question. ~ 3. Rien ne nous paroit donc plue interessant pour la perfection de l'horlogerie qu'un semblable instrument qui determine sur le champ toutes les dimensions et proportions requises que l'on ne pouvoit jusqu'a present obtenir que par des Proportion Compass. 953 rious, and so imperfect, that it is they which have probably given rise to a general relaxation with regard to the true principles, and to the adoption of rules and measures arbitrary, vague, and which produce very considerable errors: such, for instance, is the error of taking a little more than three points of a tooth in order to determine the size of the pinions of six, without regard to the revolutions which the different numbers of the teeth of the wheels produce. The consequence is, that an equal measure being taken upon a wheel of 18 and upon one of 72 teeth produces a variation of one entire revolution, as will be shewn hereafter. ~ 4. For instance, the pinion is the divisor of the wheel as well as that of the circle, each tooth of which is to raise its required proportion of degrees. A pinion of six is to raise 60~ per tooth because 6 x 60 = 360; one of des moyens aussi longs que penibles et imparfaits, et qui vraisemblablement ont donne lieu a un relachement general sur les vrais principes, en suivant des regles ou mesures aussi vagues qu'arbitraires et qui menent a des erreurs tres considerables; telles sont celles de prendre un peu plus que trois pointes de dent pour determiner la grosseur des pignons de six sans distinction des revolutions que produisent les differens nombres de dents des roues. Par consequent la meme mesure prise sur une roue de 18 comme sur celle de 72 dents, produit une ecart d'une revolution entiere, ainsi que l'on l'expliquera ci apres. ~ 4. Par exemple, le pignon est le diviseur de la roue aussi bien que celui du cercle, dont chaque aile doit lever sa portion de degres requise; un pignon de VOL. LXVIII. 6 C 6 doit 954 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented of seven is to raise 51~ 25~2/3 and some seconds; one of eight is to raise 45~; one of ten is to raise 36~: finally, one of twelve must incontestably raise 30~ per tooth, since 12 x 30 = 360. ~ 5. Amidst various methods that have been used for the solution of this important problem, I shall mention only the most simple one which may be understood by those who have the very first principles of arithmetic. ~ 6. I set in motion two wheels, each of twelve teeth. By making one wheel turn the other, it is evident that these two diameters must be perfectly equal between themselves, allowing for the necessary shake between the teeth.(a) (a) This shake is very inconsiderable, especially when the pinion and the teeth of the wheel are properly opened; for, according to my experiments, the deduction to be made on this account is reduced to the 96th part of the circumference of a pinion 6 doit lever 60~ par aile, parce que 6 x 60 = 360; un de 7 doit lever 51~ 252/3~ et quelques secondes; un de 8, 45~; celui de 10, 36~; enfin un pignon de 12, doit incontestablement lever 30~ par aile, puisque 12 x 30 = 360. ~ 5. Entre diverses regles que l'on a employees pour resoudre cet important probleme; on sera mention seulement dela plus simple et qui se trouvera a la portee de ceux qui auront les premieres notions des elemens de l'arithmetique. ~ 6. Si je fais fonctionner par engrenage deux mobiles du meme nombre, que je suppose de 12 dents chacun, il est elair que ces deux diametres doivent etre parfaitement egaux entreux (au lochement pres qu' exige tout engrenage libre *). * Lochement qui se reduit a tres peu de chose, sur tout quand le pignons et la denture sont vuides a leur point, car suivant l'experience que ces ai faite, cette consideration se reduit a toute rigeur a un 96e dela circonference d'un pignon de 12, qui produit la somme d'une ~ de dent Proportion Compass. 955 ~ 7. It will follow from hence, that these two movers, which we will suppose wheel and pinion, must reciprocally raise the 30~ required; but if you increase one of these so as to make a revolution more than the other, which is fixed at 12 teeth, and at one line diameter, this last will indeed have 24 teeth; but instead of two lines of diameter it will have only 23 and 1/12th relatively to that of the pinion; or if we give it exactly the double diameter, it will have 25 teeth instead of 24; consequently upon three revolutions, or 36 teeth, one must subtract from the wheel 2 and 1/12th of a line, and so on as far as 12 or rather 11 effective revolutions (for the first, being supposed to be in equilibrio with its pinion, ought pinion of 12 which produces the sum of the 8th part of a tooth upon the wheel let its number be what it will. not ~ 7. Il suit dela que ces deux mobiles que nous supposerons roue et pignon doivent lever reciproquement les 30~ requis; mais si l'on augmente l'un de ces mobiles d'une revolution de l'autre qui est fixee a 12 dents et une ligne de diametre, ce dernier aura bien 24 dents, mais au lieu de deux lignes de diametre il n'aura que 23/12 relativement a celui du pignon, ou bien si on lui donne exactement le double en diametre il aura 25 dents au lieu de 24, parconsequent sur trois revolutions soit 36 dents, il en fandra retrancher de la roue 1/6 de ligne, ainsi de suite jusqu'a 12 ou bien 11 revolutions effectives) parce que la premiere etant dent sur la roue de tel nombre qu'elle soit; neantmoins pour rendre les justes rapports d'autant plus complets, j'ai fait entrer tout d'un tems cette petite compensation en faveur du mobile qui mene dans les dimensions de mon compas en question, pour tous les nombres et grandeurs des roues et pignons quelconques, &c. 6 C 2 censee 956 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented not to be reckoned). The wheel will then indeed have 144 teeth, or 12 x 12; but it will only have 11 times as much in diameter, that is, 11 lines instead of 12, in order that the angles of these two movers may always be in the same perfect proportion to one another, of which the precise raising of 30~ per tooth is one of the most convincing proofs. ~ 8. In order to make this more intelligible, I say that, as the primitive radii ought to be equal between these movers, a pinion of six wings, being a line in diameter, requires the taking off of one sixth, to take from it what is useless in its catch; this is what forms the apparent diameter. This deduction will reduce the primitive radius of this pinion to 5/6ths of a line; for as its revolutions about a wheel of 12 teeth are as two to one, what is to make the radius of the wheel for the first revolution will be equal censee faire equilibre avec son pignon ne doit point entrer en ligne de compte) la roue aura bien 144 dents ou 12 x 12. Mais elle n'aura qu'onze fois autant on diametre, c'est a dire onze lignes au lieu de douze, pour que les angles de ces deux mobiles restent toujours dans le meme et parsait rapport, dont la juste levee de 30~ par aile est une des preuves la plus convaincante. ~ 8. Pour rendre ceci plus intelligible, nous disons que comme les rayons primitifs doivent etre egaux entre ces mobiles; un pignon de six ailes qui aura une ligne de diametre exige le retranchement d'un sixieme pour lui oter ce qu'il y a d'inutile dans son engrenage, c'est ce qui forme le diametre apparent; ce retranchement reduira le rayon primitif de ce pignon a 10/12 a soit a 5/6 de ligne, car comme ses revolutions autour d'une roue de 12 deuts sont comme 2 a 1, et ce qui Proportion Compass. 957 equal to this in 12/12ths, or one line; but for 2, 3, and 4 revolutions, and so on, one must add 10/12ths of a line to the radius already laid down, for as many revolutions as the pinion must make more than the wheel, a wheel of 12 teeth will consequently have 22/12ths of a line radius or diameter; one of 18 teeth and 32/12ths; one of 24 teeth 42/12ths, and so on. ~ 9. The same thing holds true in all the other pinions, let the number of them be what it will, where the same rule is to be observed. Thus upon 10 revolutions of a pinion of 10 one must deduct from the diameter of the wheel one diameter of the pinion; as many upon eight revolutions of a pinion of eight; upon seven of a pinion of seven as many; upon six of a pinion of six qui doit faire le rayon dela roue pour la premiere revolution sera egal a celui ci en 12 douziemes soit une ligne mais pour 2, 3, et 4 revolutions ainsi de suite on ajoutera 10 douziemes de ligne au rayon deja pose, pour autant de revolution que devra faire le pignon de plus que la roue; ainsi une roue de 12 dents aura de rayon ou de diametre 22 douziemes de ligne, celle de 18 dents 32 douziemes; de 24, 42 douziemes, &c. ~ 9. Il en est dememe de tous les autres pignons, de tel nombre que ce soit, ou il faut observer la meme regle, ainsi sur 10 revolutions d'un pignon de 10 on retranchera du diametre dela roue une fois celui du pignon; sur 8 revolutions d'un pignon de 8 autant; sur sept d'un pignon de 7 autant; sur six d'un pignon de 958 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented six as many; and so on upon all the movers acting by revolutions and teeth. ~ 10. This constant variation of the diameters in the proportion of the revolutions of the pinion upon the wheel, is a discovery so much the more important towards determining, with greater ease, the due proportion between the wheels and the pinions, that it follows gradually, in the most perfect diminutive order, all the numbers and magnitudes of any diameter whatever; a singularity of effect which shall be accounted for in another place. ~ 11. The diameter of the wheel must of necessity increase in a ratio of the actual revolutions of the pinion, and not in that of its apparent diameter; since we are considering the working parts of wheels and pinions, where the angles, relatively to the change of the curves and de six autant; ainsi du reste de tous les mobiles agissans par revolutions et engrenages. ~ 10. Cette constante variete des diametres, en raison des revolutions du pignon sur la roue, est une decouverte d'autant plus importante pour determiner avec la plus grande facilite et precision le juste rapport entre les roue et les pignons, qu'elle suit graduellement dans l'ordre diminutif le plus parfait tous les nombres et grandeurs de quelques diametres que ce soit; singularite d'effets dont nous rendrons compte ailleurs. ~ 11. Le diametre dela roue doit necessairement augmenter en raison des revolutions effectives du pignon et non en raison de son diametre apparent puis qu'il Proportion Compass. 959 and the circumference, must be reciprocally in the same proportion to operate constantly the degrees of raising which are required. ~ 12. One may easily conceive, that the teeth of a wheel become constantly more parallel to each other, and approach to the straight line, in proportion as the number of them increases, the depth in that case need not be so great, and the curve being shorter is more favourable to the uniformity of the frictions than upon wheels which are few in number; this is what most commonly happens to pinions of six, the numbers of whose wheels hardly ever exceed 60 or 72 teeth. For if in the usual method of using a pinion-gage one was to take upon a wheel of 12 or 18 teeth a little more than the three points (which points from the nature of their angles would qu'il s'agit d'un engrenage ou les angles relativement au changement des courbes et de la circonference doivent etre reciproquement dans le meme rapport pour operer constamment les degres de levees requis. ~ 12. Il est facile de comprendre que les dents d'une roue deviennent toujours plus paralelles entr'elles et s'approchent de la ligne droite a mesure que le nombre en est augmente, et moins alors l'engrenage exige de penetration, la courbe etant plus courte devient dans ce cas plus avantageuse en faveur de l'uniformite des frottemens, que sur des roues peu nombreuses, c'est ce qui d'ordinaire arrive aux pignons de six dont les nombres des roues ne passent gueres 60 et 72 dents, &c. Car si par la methode ordinaire avec un calibre a pignon on prenoit sur une roue de 12 dents ou de 18 un peu plus que les trois pointes (que par la nature de 1 leurs 960 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented would hitch into the three teeth at one and the same time) supposed to be in due proportion with a pinion of six, and that afterwards one was to make use of the same measure upon a wheel of 42 teeth, the natural consequence would be, that this pinion would be by 3/6ths, or half its diameter, too big. ~ 13. A pinion of seven, supposed to be of a proper bigness, with a wheel of 21 teeth, would according to the same measure of three full teeth taken upon a wheel of 70, be too big by its whole diameter, insomuch, that the wheel instead of 70 teeth ought to have but 63, &c. Though the superior angles, that is, the circumference of the wheels from 12 to 120, and above ad infinitum, relatively to the size of a pinion given according to our rule, are and ought to be invariably the same; the lower angles, leurs angles embrasseroient tout d'un tems les trois dents) que l'on suppose en juste rapport avec un pignon de six, et que l'on voulusse faire usage de la meme mesure sur une roue de 42 dents, il en resulteroit evidemment que ce pignon se trouveroit de 3/6 soit dela moitie de son diametre trop gros. ~ 13. Un pignon de sept qui seroit par supposition de juste grosseur avec une roue de 21 dents se trouveroit, selon la meme mesure de trois dents pleines, prises sur une roue de 70 trop gros de son diametre entier, de sorte que la roue au lieu de 70 dents n'en devroit avoir que 63, &c. Non obstant que les angles superieurs, soit la circonference des roues depuis 12 a 120 et au dessus jusques a l'infini; relativement a la grosseur d'un pignon donne selon notre regle, 6 soient Proportion Compass. 961 angles, that is, the thickness of the teeth, are yet extremely different in every wheel. ~ 14. For instance, all the wheels from 12 to 120 being sloped and rounded with the same file, the teeth of the wheel of 48 are half as thick again as those of 12, &c. In proportion as the parallelism of the angles increases, the teeth of course become larger and fuller, and each tooth consequently always exceeds the intermediate space in the same proportion, and gradually as far as the right line. This, in my opinion, determines the proper space between the teeth of each wheel, whence follows the curve, equally constant and advantageous in every respect, both with regard to the execution and to the uniformity in its lead on a pinion such as this, the thickness of the teeth of which is a sixth part of its diameter, soient et doivent etre invariablement les memes, les angles inferieurs soit l'epaisseur des dents, sont cependant a chaque roue tres differens. ~ 14. Par exemple, toutes les roues depuis 12 jusques a 120 etant aflanquees et arrondies avec la meme lune ou fraise, les dents de la roue de 48 sont la mome plus grosses ou plus epaisses que celle de 12, &c. a mesure que le parallelisme des angles augmente, les dents deviennent naturellement plus grosses ou plus etoffees (et le plein par consequent excedant toujours le vuide dans la meme proportion et graduellement jusqu'a la ligne droite). C'est la qu' est a mon avis le vrai point de vuidage graduel de chaque roue, d'ou suit naturellement la courbe aussi constante qu'elle me paroit la plus advantagouse a tous egards, soit dans l'execution, soit dans l'uniformite, a peu de chose pres, de la menee sur un pignon tel que celui ci, dont l'epaisseur des ailes est la sixieme partie de son diametre, tout comme V O L. LXVIII. 6 D l'excedant 962 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented meter, just as the excess of the primitive radius or true diameter is the sixth part of its apparent diameter. ~ 15. According to this demonstration, founded upon experiments, and which I am able to make out clearly, it is easy to see what errors must have crept into clock-making by the old method of taking for the pinion of six three or a little more than three points of teeth; for pinion of seven, the three full teeth when finished; for pinion of eight, the three full teeth, and the void space as far as the fourth; for pinion of ten, four full teeth so as the wheel comes out of the engine (the making of which has hitherto been trusted to women, children, and servants); finally, for a pinion of twelve, five points of rather strong teeth, with the same arbitrary formality. These methods, I must repeat it, are only fit to perpetuate misunl'excedant du rayon primitif soit diametre vrai, est la sixieme partie de son diametre apparent. ~ 15. Selon cette demonstration fondee sur des principes d'experience et dont on peut donner des preuves evidentes, il est aise de voir et de sentir a quel extreme erreur ces usages ont expose l'horlogerie jusques a present ou l'on a suivi constamment l'ancienne methode de prendre pour pignon de six, les uns un pou plus que les trois pointes de dents, les autres les trois pointes justes; pour pignon de 7 les trois dents pleines la denture finie; pour pignon d 8 les trois dents pleines et le vuide jusques a la quatrieme; pour pignon de 10 quatre dents pleines telles que la roue sort du fendage, lequel jusques a present a ete confie aux femmes, aux enfans et meme aux servantes, &c. Enfin pour pignon de 12, cinq pointes de dents un peu fortes avec la meme formalite arbitraire, methodes nous 2 le Proportion Compass. 963 misunderstanding and division upon the manner of fixing and ascertaining the first principles of watchmaking. ~ 16. Nothing therefore ought to make us more sensible of the want there is of our compasses of proportion, than the consideration of measures as ridiculous in themselves as they are impossible to fix; there is no proportion which can be fixed (except it be by mere chance) between these movers not even within so much as eight or ten degrees of rise per tooth; whereas by our machines, whose utility and the manner of making use of them is comprehended at first sight, one may come within a quarter or even an eighth of a rise per tooth, or nearly so. ~ 17. le repetons tout a fait propres a perpetuer le schisme, la mes-intelligence et l'erreur sur la maniere propre a fixer les vrais et premiers principes de l'horlogerie. ~ 16. Rien ne devroit donc mieux faire sentir la necessite de nos compas de proportion que des methodes de mesures aussi ridicules par elles memes qu'impropres a fixer aucun juste rapport entre les mobiles en question, pas meme a 8 et 10 degres de levees pres par aile, si non par l'effet du pur hazard, tandis que l'on peut avec autant de precision que de facilite par nos susdites machines aller jusqu'a 1/4 et meme 1/8 soit 71/2 minute en degre de levee par aile pres, et leur usage et la maniere de s'en servir est au premier coup d'aeil si aisee a comprendre qu'il seroit fort inutile d'entrer dans un plus grand detail a ce sujet. 6 D 2 ~ 17. 964 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented ~ 17. It is not so easy to adapt these principles to our machines for all sorts of pinions, numbers of teeth, and sizes of wheels, and generally to whatever acts by lever, or wheel and pinion, or whatever is susceptible of relation, dimension, proportion, and compensation, from the first to the last movers of a watch or clock; for the least fault, either in the systems or geometrical principles, or the mechanical execution, is as fatal as would be the putting down a cypher too much or too little in the solution of a problem; and the more fatal the more complicated the machine. ~ 18. ~ 17. Il n'en est pas de meme sur la maniere d'adapter les susdits principes a nos machines pour toutes sortes de pignons, de nombres et grandeurs de roues, et generalement sur ce qui agit par levier et engrenage, ainsi que sur tout ce qui est susceptible de rapport, dimension, proportion, et compensation respectives depuis les premiers jusques aux derniers mobiles d'une montre et pendule; nous savons par experience combien de difference il y a entre le maniement de la plume et du papier a celui des instrumens mechaniques dont la construction, sur tout pour de semblables objets, exige la plus haute combinaison dans ses parties, aussi bien que la plus grande precision dans l'application des principes theoriques; car la plus legere faute, soit dans les systemes ou principes geometriques, soit dans l'execution mechanique, est aussi grave que si l'on posoit un chiffie de plus ou de moins dans des solutions problematiques, a cette difference pres, que la derniere fera bien manquer le juste resultat, tout comme la premiere, mais que de plus celle ci induira en erreur, suivant la complication des objets, jusques a l'infini. ~ 18. Proportion Compass. 965 ~ 18. The consideration of these difficulties has reduced me hitherto to keep silence upon the general construction of these instruments; instruments, in my opinion, absolutely necessary for the constructing of movements, sets of wheels, and motions, either rough or finished, according to the just proportions. ~ 19. But I make bold to set down, as a fundamental proposition, that the true size or relation between a wheel and its pinion is absolutely fixed; and in no case whatsoever arbitrary, as those who are not watch-makers might pretend: for all the reasons which can be assigned in favour of this arbitrariness would be as vague and destitute of foundation as if one was to consider arbitrarily the true gradation of a steel-yard relatively to its weight, or the length of a pendulum which swings seconds, whereas the ~ 18. La consideration de ces difficultes nous a reduits jusques a present a garder le silence sur la construction generale des ces machines devenues selon nous indispensables pour diriger et construire des mouvemens, rouages et ca dractures bruts ou finis selon les vraies proportions requises. 19. Nous osons donc etablir pour principe fondamental, que la juste grosseur soit le parsait rapport entre une roue et son pignon est incontestablement sixe, absolu, et non arbitraire dans aucun cas, ainsi que tous autres que des horlogers <inferred>pourroient</inferred> le pretendre; car toutes les raisons que l'on pourroient alleguer en saveur de cet arbitraire seroient aussi vagues et destituees de sondement que si l'on envisageoit arbitrairement la juste graduation d'une Romaine soit Levrot relativement a son poid, ainsi que la longueur du pendul a seconde, tandis que ce dernier 966 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented the latter is fixed by nature and the general laws of gravitation, and its vibrations are in the inverse ratio of the square roots of the lengths of the pendulums, which should be neither more nor less than 36 inches 8 and 4/7ths of lines from the point of its suspension to the center of the lens, &c. ~ 20. I have already said, that each pinion, of what number soever, ought to raise its precise portion of degrees, in order to operate in the most uniform manner possible its required revolutions; consequently, each tooth of a pinion of six must raise the 60~ which form the aperture of its angles. ~ 21. Let us suppose this pinion to have one line diameter, and the wheel which turns it to have 10 lines and 72 teeth; then if, instead of a line which is the due size dernier est fixe par la nature soit par la loi dela pesanteur, et que ses vibrations s'executent dans la rapport invers des racines quarrees des longueurs du pendul, qui doit n'avoir ni plus ni moins que 36 pouces 8 et 4/7es de lignes depuis le point de sa suspension jusques au centre de la lentille, &c. ~ 20. Nous avons deja dit que chaque pignon, de tel nombre que ce soit, doit lever sa portion precise de degres pour operer le plus uniformement possible ses revolutions requises, par consequent chaque aile d'un pignon de 6 doit lever les 60~ qui forment l'ouverture de ses angles. ~ 21. Supposons ce pignon d'une ligne de diametre et la roue qui forme son engrenage de 10 lignes et de 72 dents, alors si au lieu d'une ligne qui est la juste Proportion Compass. 967 size of the pinion, we give it the twelfth of a line more (which, according to the rule of common measures, would be imperceptible, since there is often much more distance between the extremities of two opposite systems) it is evident, that upon every twelve revolutions there would be one wrong, consequently such a wheel of 12 revolutions would, according to the right rule, instead of 72 teeth require only 66. ~ 22. If then a pinion of six, instead of raising 60~, should raise 65~, there will not only be 30~ in every revolution of a pinion entirely lost with respect to the expence of the moving force, but the extraneous frictions go on in a continued progression, ad infinitum, till a stoppage ensues, and this sometimes after a long series of irregularity from the very beginning; a thing not at all surprizing, juste grosseur de ce pignon, on lui donne une douzieme de ligne de plus (qui selon la regle des communes mesures seroit imperceptible puis-qu' entre les deux extremites de diverses opinions et systemes, il y a beaucoup plus d' ecart encore) il est evident que sur 12 revolutions il y en auroit une de mecompte, soit une fois de son diametre, par consequent une telle roue de 12 revolutions au lieu de 72 dents, n'en exigeroit par la bonne regle que 66. ~ 22. Si donc un pignon de 6 au lieu de lever les 60~ en leve 65~, il y aura 30~ par chaque revolution du pignon, non seulement en pure perte quand a la depense de la force motrice, mais les frottemens etrangers soit arcboutemens s'augmentent toujours par progression a l'infini jusques a ce que l'arret s'en suive, et quelque fois apres une longue suite d'irregularites depuis sa naissance; on ne s'en etonnrea 968 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented prizing, if one considers the defectuosity of the principles upon which the greater part of these machines are constructed. ~ 23. Let us reckon only 2~ more of rise per tooth, we shall find between the four pinions (that of the center of 10, and the three of 6) 8780~ per hour, which in 30 hours form a sum of lost labour for one complete hour. ~ 24. Who does not see that such an irregularity in the combination of a machine intended to measure time must be the more prejudicial, from the impossibility there is of establishing any fixed rule with respect to a just and indispensable relation between the movers and their reciprocal actions. ~ 25. A pinion which is too small in proportion of the diameter and division of the wheel will not be able to raise etonnrea pas, si l'on considere la defectuosite des principes suivant lesquels la plupart de ces machines d'horlogerie sont construites. ~ 22. Que l'on compte seulement deux degres de levee par aile de plus, on trouvera entre les 4 pignons (celui du centre de 10 et les 3 autres de 6) 8780~ par heure, ce qui forme dans 30 heures une somme de peines perdues, pour une heure complette. ~ 24. Qui ne sent qu'un tel ecart dans la combinaison d'une machine destinee pour mesurer le temps, doit etre d'autant plus prejudiciable que l'on ne sauroit jamais etablir aucune regle fixe, en faveur d'un juste et indispensable rapport, entre les mobiles et leurs actions reciproques. ~ 25. Un pignon trop petit en raison du diametre et dela division de la roue ne Proportion Compass. 969 raise the required degrees, because the aperture of its angle does not answer to that of the teeth of the wheel: for instance, a pinion of 6, which is 7/12ths of a line smaller than the true rule makes it, will raise only 55~, when the tooth of the wheel has carried the tooth of the pinion as far as its extremity on the aperture of its angle allows, it is forced to leave it before the tooth which follows is come to the same place from whence the other sat off, consequently it falls 5~ which are wanting to its just rise; this is what occasions the precipitations of the balance, which are so disagreeable to the ear, that one is in much greater haste to correct them than to prevent the retardations which, no doubt, arise from the other extremity; that is being obliged to make a forced rise, or a greater one than the true proportion of the diameters requires, ne pourra lever les degres requis, parce que l'ouverture de son angle ne repond point a celui des dents de la roue; par exemple, un pignon de 6 de 7/12e de ligue plus petit que la veritable regle le fixe, ne levera que 55~, la dent de la roue ayant mene l'aile du pignon aussi loin que son extremite ou l'ouverture de son angle le permet, est oblige de l'abandonner avant que l'aile suivante arrive a la meme place d'ou l'autre est parti soit de la ligne des centres, il fait par consequent une chute de 5~ qui manquent a sa juste levee, c'est ce qui cause les precipitations du balancier qui choquent si sort l'ereille. C'est pourquoi on est beaucoup plus empresse a les corriger qu'a prevenir les lenteurs, qui sans doute proviennent de l'autre extremite, parce qu'etant oblige de faire une levee forcee ou plus grande que le juste rapport des diametres exige, ils eprouvent un contrast ou V O L. LXVIII. 6 E arcboutement 970 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented quires, they meet with an opposition occasioning this slowness infinitely more prejudicial than the precipitations. ~ 26. The difference then which there is between a pinion that is too large, and one that is too small, is, that the first will occasion irregularities, but never a stoppage; whereas the latter will produce both the one and the other: consequently, if one had no choice between these extremities of error, it would be better to declare in favour of the smallest. ~ 27. Might it not with justice (as an ingenious clockmaker observes) be objected to us, how useless a thing it is to determine the right proportion in the relation of the diameters, whilst the same defect of proportion subsists in a much higher degree in the general inequality of arcboutement qui occasionne cette lenteur, infiniment plus prejudiciable que les precipitations. ~ 26. La difference donc qu'il y a entre un pignon trop petit ou trop gros est telle, que le premier causera bien des irregularites mais jamais d'arrets, au lieu que le dernier produira l'un et l'autre, par consequent si l'on n'avoit ~ choix que ces deux extremites de vices, il vaudroit mieux se declarer en faveur du plus petit. ~ 27. Ne seroit on pas fonde (comme le remarque un horloger de genie) a nous faire la legitime objection, de l'inutilite qu'il y a a determiner la juste proportion dans le rapport des diametres, tandis que le meme vice de la disproportion subsiste a un plus haut point encore, dans l'irregularite generale de la division des 2 roues, Proportion Compass. 971 of the division of the wheels which in our day has been carried to the heighth? I answer, that to form to one's self a right idea of the important consequences of a true or false division of the wheels, it will be necessary first to enter into rather a greater discussion. ~ 28. The true and just division of wheels and pinions is, that all the teeth should be at perfectly equal distances from each other, or at least divided into so many perfectly equal parts, which is the same thing. ~ 29. Consequently, a wheel of 60 teeth forms 60 angles of 6~ of overture each; if then, for instance, these 60 angles are open at different degrees, that is to say, one half only at 4 or 5~, it is necessary that the other half should be intermixed or opened at 7 or 8~; we must remember that each angle of the wheel, no matter what number roues, qui aujourd'huy est portee a son comble; nous repondons que pour se former une juste idee des consequences importantes de la vraie ou fausse division des roues il conviendroit au-paravant d'entrer dans un detail un peu plus considerable. ~ 28. La vraie et juste division des roues et des pignons est que toutes les dents ou ailes doivent etre a des distances parsaitement egales l'une de l'autre, ou bien divisees en autant de parties parfaitement egales, ce qui est la meme chose. ~ 29. Une roue de 60 dents, forme consequemment 60 angles de six degres d'ouverture chacun, si donc par exemple ces 60 angles sont ouverts a differens degres, c'est a dire la moitie seulement a 4 et 5~, il faut necessairement que l'autre moitie soit entremelee ou de suite ouverte a 7 or 8~; l'on doit se rappeller 6 E 2 que 972 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented number upon a pinion of six, must operate in a mutual proportion the 60~ of rise by which the angle of the pinion is open; from whence it happens, that the angles of the wheel, open only at 5~, will raise only 60~ above those of the pinion; but, if they are open at 7~, the rise will be of 70~ instead of 60~. ~ 30. There are likewise a great number of defects which are increased two and three-fold by the usual consequences attending wheel-engines, the small tooth of which is constantly exposed to become shorter than the large ones, in proportion of its size. This happens in the following manner; the file, which is to round off, working on each side equally, does not take more from the side of the large tooth than it does from the small; consequently, the small one is sharp whilst the large one still que chaque angle de la roue n'importe dequel nombre sur pignon de six doit operer en mutuelle proportion les 60~ de levees dont l'angle du pignen est ouvert; d'ou suit que les angles de la roue seulem nt ouverts a 5~, n'opereront que 50~ sur ceux du pignon, mais que s'ils sont ouverts a 7~ la levee sera de 70~ au lieu de 60~. ~ 30. Je ne parlerai pas d'un concours de vices qui se double et se triple par l'effet ordinaire des outils aux dentures, ou la petite dent est exposee a devenir toujours plus courte que les grosses, en raison de sa petitesse; cela arrive de cette maniere, la lime a arrondir mordant des deux cotes egalement; n'emporte par plus d'etoffe du cote de la grosse que de la petite dent, par con equent il y a encore du plat sur la grosse que la petite est deja pointue, il faut necessairement 4 raccourcir Proportion Compass. 973 still continues flat, one must therefore shorten the small tooth in proportion to the size of the larger. ~ 31. When the teeth were used to be finished by hand, there was great care taken to keep all the teeth of the same length, even when it was impossible in irely to correct or take off their inequality: in consequence of this care, the wheel at least used to be always perfectly round; whereas when the tool is used, the wheels are unavoidably as ill-rounded as they are unequal in their divisions, so that the teeth ought never to be finished with the tool, unless they are thoroughly equally cut. ~ 32. It is therefore easy to conceive, that the pinion becomes sometimes too large, and sometimes too small, upon the same unequal wheel, and that the angle of the tooth raccourcir la petite dent dans la meme proportion qu'il y a plus de matiere a la grosse. ~ 31. Lors qu'on finissoit les dentures a la main on s'attachoit soigneusement a tenir toutes les dents de la meme longueur, meme lors qu'on ne pouvoit corriger ou remedier efficacement a leur in galite; la roue par cette precaution se trouvoit du moins toujours parsaitement ronde, au lieu qu'a l'outil les roues deviennent inevitablement aussi mal rondes qu'elles sont inegales dans leurs divisions; en sorte que l'on ne devroit jamais finir les dentures a l'outil a moins qu'elles ne fussent fendue parfaitement egales. ~ 32. Il est donc aise de comprendre que le pignon devient tantot trop gros et tantot trop petit sur la meme roue inegale et tres souvent a l'exces et que l'angle de 974 Mr. LE CERF on a new invented tooth of 60~, being more or less open, produces an error of 10 degrees on the true rise of the pinion. ~ 33. Let the arbitrary general practice be what it will, certain it is, that neither the degree of depth of the wheel and pinion, nor the fulness, nor the size of the wheel, can establish any principle analogous to the harmony and perfect agreement of the movers we are talking of, to wit, the true size of the pinion; even the most perfect geometrical curve, supposing it practicable, could not make the pinion raise a minute more or less in degrees, without a just proportion of their reciprocal diameters. ~ 34. It is therefore impossible to use too much attention in considering the relations and proportions of the different movers which act by levers and wheel and pinion, since de la denture de 60 ouvert d'une degre de plus ou de moins, produit un ccart de 10~ sur la juste levee du pignon. ~ 33. Quoi qu'il en soit du systeme arbitraire et de la routine generale, il n'y a ni le sort ni le foible des engrenages, ni le plein ni le vuide, qui puisse etablir aucun principe analogue a l'harmonie et au parfait accord des differens mobiles en question, soit la juste grosseur d'un pignon, la courbe geometrique meme la plus parfaite (quand elle seroit praticable) ne sauroit non plus faire lever au pignon une seule minute en degres de plus ou de moins sans le juste rapport de leurs diametres reciproques. ~ 34. On ne sauroit donc asses prendre en consideration la partie des rapports et des proportions des differens mobiles agissans par leviers et par engrenages; puis Proportion Compass. 975 since these are the most essential objects of clockmaking. ~ 35. This rule arising from the center of the moveables themselves, for the which it is principally used, it is right to deduct one revolution of a pinion, in consequence of the just balance or perfect equilibrio between them; whence it follows, that the retrenching a complete revolution of the pinion will take place only at the seventh, or at forty-two, which seventh too strictly speaking is only the sixth, since the first revolution ought not in fact to be reckoned, being supposed to be in equilibrio with its associate, the wheel of the same number and same diameter; for the pinion making seven revolutions for one of the wheel, one may say with reason, that one active revolution of the wheel will make seven passive ones of the pinion, and deducting that of the wheel, the effectual puis que ce sont les objets les plus essentiels de l'horlogerie. ~ 35. Cette regle sortant du centre des mobiles memes qui font le principal objet de son usage, il est de l'ordre de deduire une revolution du pignon en raison de la juste balance, ou du parfait equilibre entr'eux, d'ou il suit que le retranchement d'une revolution complette du pignon n'aura lieu qu'a la septieme soit a 42 qui cependant a bien compter n'est que la 6e puis que la premiere revolution ne doit point entrer en ligne de compte, etant censee faire equilibre avec sa consorte la roue du meme nombre et du meme diametre, car le pignon faisant sept revolutions pour une dela roue, on peut dire avec raison qu'une revolution active de la roue en opere sept passives du pignon, et en deduisant celle de la roue, les revolutions 976 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented tual revolutions of the pinion remain at six instead of seven, or else we must consider the revolutions of the wheel with those of the pinion as one to seven, of which the just result is six. ~ 36. If then one wishes to know what the jsut deduction required amounts to in every case, one need only divide the apparent diameter of the pinion by the number of its teeth, and the quotient will be the just portion for each of its revolutions, which consequently upon six, makes the sum of the entire diameter of the pinion of six, as is proved by the annexed table. ~ 37. In case of necessity one might consider the revolutions under two points of view; the first of them as active, and the other as passive. The revolutions effectives du pignon restent a 6 au lieu de 7, ou bien il faut considerer les revolutions de la roue avec ceux du pignon comme un a sept et dont le juste resultat est six. ~ 36. Si donc on veut savoir a quoi se monte dans tous les cas la juste deduction requise, il ne s'agit que de diviser le diametre apparent du pignon par le nombre de ses ailes et le quotient sera la juste portion pour chacune de ses revolutions, qui par consequent sui six fait la somme du diametre entire dont le pignon de six se trouve revetu, ainsi que le calcul de la table cy jointe en fait foy. ~ 37. Au besoin on pourroit envisager les revolutions sous deux points de vue; scavoir les premieres comme passives et les secondes comme actives. 1~. Les Proportion Compass. 977 The former such as regard the duration of the motion or quantity of the vibrations. The others, whose object is solely the constant proportion of the diameters of the movements in agitation. ~ 38. In the first case one reckons for a revolution of the pinion as many times as it is contained in the number of the teeth of the wheel; this mode of reckoning it is well known is absolutely necessary for obtaining the required conclusion. ~ 39. The same is not true with respect to the latter case, in which the revolutions of the pinion are only reckoned to fix the true proportions of their respective diameters. ~ 40. The harmony required between the two movers is the same as if they had contracted a perpetual alliance, 1~. Les revolutions qui ont pour objet la duree du mouvement ou la quantite des vibrations. 2~. Celles qui ont uniquement pour object les constants rapports des diametres entre les mobiles en question. ~ 38. Dans le premier cas l'on compte pour revolution du pignon autant de fois qu'il est contenu dans le nombre des dents de la roue; cette maniere de compter est comme l'on scait indispensable pour obtenir le resultat qu'on demande. ~ 39. Mais il n'en est pas de meme du dernier cas ou les revolutions du pignon ne se comptent que pour fixer les justes rapports de leurs diametres reciproques. ~ 40. L'harmonie requise entre les deux mobiles en question est telle que s'ils avoi nt contractes une alliance perpetuelle a se maintenir mutuellement dans le V O L. LXVIII. 6 F meme 978 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented ance, to hold constantly the same proportion towards each other, just as if they were always in perfect equilibrio. ~ 41. However it be that this centrifugal law seems to adapt itself to the use one desires to make of it, it is not the less fixed and permanent; nor can it ever occasion the least error, provided only that the wheel pays its periodical tribute of deduction in favour of the pinion; in that case it will be equally in the same proportion at the end of one revolution and of a hundred thousand. ~ 42. In a word, the whole mystery of this golden rule is comprised within the true and the apparent diameter of the pinion; whence it follows, that the deduction positively required is exactly the excess of the apparent diameter above the true one; a deduction which for a pinion meme rapport (moyennant un certain retranchement) tout comme s'ils etoient toujours dans leurs parfaits equilibres. ~ 41. Quoi que cette regle centrifuge paroisse s'accommoder a l'usage que l'on en veut faire, elle n'est pas moins droite et permanente et ne peut jamais induire dans la moindre erreur, pourvu toutefois que la roue paye son tribut periodique (soit de deduction) en faveur du pignon, elle se trouvera alors aussi bien dans le meme rapport au bout de cent mille revolutions qu'elle l'etoit a la premiere. ~ 42. Enfin l'on saura que tout le mistere de cette regle d'or, consiste entre le diametre vrai et le diametre apparent du pignon, d'ou il suit que cette deduction absolument requise est positivement la portion dont le diametre apparent excede du Proportion Compass. 979 a pinion of six is a sixth part of its diameter; for one of seven, a seventh; for one of eight, an eighth; for ten, a tenth; for twelve, a twelfth, and so on of all the moveables serving for pinions. What is meant by a pinion in watch-making is that moveable which is set in action by another of a greater number of teeth, and communicates its motion successively to the last of them; hence all the pinions relatively to the shape of the teeth of the wheels and pinions require an addition of the true diameter, and that is what is properly called the apparent diameter. ~ 43. We must, however, except the rochet pinions, because the whole primitive radius nearly as far as the extremity of the tooth is run over by the point of the tooth, which is of a rochet form, as well as the tooth of the pinion. But whatever advantage these rochet du vrai, deduction qui pour pignon de six est la sixieme partie de son diametre, pour pignon de 7 la 7e, pour 8 la 8e, pour 10 la 10e, pour 12 la 12e; ainsi du reste de tous les mobiles servant de pignon; l'on entend dans l'horlogerie par le mot de pignon, ce mobile qui est actionne par un autre plus nombreux, et qui communique successivement le mouvement, jusqu'au dernier des mobiles; ce qui fait que tous les pignons, relativement a la nature des engrenages, exigent un excedent du diametre vrai, que l'on peut nommer a juste titre, le diametre apparent. ~ 43. Toutes fois, il enfaut excepter les pignons a rochet, parce que tout le rayon primitif, jusqu'a l'extremite de l'aile a tres peu de chose pres est parcouru par la pointe de la dent egalement formee en rochet tout comme l'aile du pignon; 6 F 2 mais 980 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented rochet pinions seem to offer themselves with, in consequence of a theory founded upon the advantage of the uniformity of the frictions, experience teaches that, independently of the difficulty there is in the execution, this sort of pinion is much more vicious than the other; it is consequently quite out of use. ~ 44. I think it not at all requisite to answer the vague objections which the friends of the arbitrary method may support their system by: it is enough for me, that almost all watch-makers are agreed upon the fulness of different pinions, and on the form of their teeth, to leave the necessary strength and consistence, which, for a pinion of six, comes to nearly a sixth part of the diameter; for one of seven, to a seventh; one of eight, to an eighth; one mais avec quelque avantage que ces pignons a rochet se presentent a notre idee fondee meme sur une theorie bien raisonnee en faveur de l'uniformite des frottemens, l'experience nous demontre, outre la grande difficulte dans l'execution, que certe sorte de pignon est beaucoup plus vicieuse que les autres; aussi n'en fait on presque plus d'usage. ~ 44. Nous nous estimons tres dispense de repondre ou de combattre toutes les objections vagues, que les partisans de l'arbitraire pourroient alleguer en faveur de leur sisteme; il suffit que presque tous les horlogers sont d'accord sur le point de vuidage des differens pignons et sur la forme de leurs ailes, pour en laisser la force et consistence necessaire qui se reduit pour pignon de 6 a tres peu de chose pres a la 6e partie de son diametre; pour pignon de 7 a la 7e; pour 8 a la 8e; pour Proportion Compass. 981 one of ten, to a tenth, &c. The most ordinary workman is able to judge at first sight, whether the pinion is deep and open to the center as it ought to be, and if the wheels are of a proper flatness, &c. ~ 45. And though there should be some little variation as of six to six and a half, and from six to five and a half per tooth of a pinion of six; this difference, though very striking to the sight, would not either increase or diminish the apparent diameter by even a fortyeighth, whence strictly speaking there would only be a twenty-fourth part of a tooth, more or less, which would raise about two-thirds of a degree per tooth, so that one may in fact look upon all objections of this nature as being as vague as they are groundless. ~ 46. pour 10 a la <inferred>10e</inferred>, &c. Vu que le plus simple ouvrier en ce genre est asses habile pour juger du premier coup d'aeil, si un pignon est enfonce et vuide a son point, et si le ailes sont bien formee en planches, &c. ~ 45. Quand il y auroit meme quelque petit ecart comme de 6 a 61/2 et de 6 a 51/2 par aile, d'un pignon de six, cette difference, quoi que tres frappante a la vue, n'augmenteroit ni ne diminueroit son diametre apparent, pas seulement d'un 48e d'ou il resulteroit a toute rigueur seulement la 24e partie d'une dent de plus ou de moins qui opereroit environ 2/3 de degre de levee par aile; de sorte que l'on pourroit judicieusement envisager les objections de cette nature comme aussi vagues qu'inconsequentes. 6 ~ 46. Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented ~ 46. I shall not stop to give lessons upon the fixing of the true point of the depth, because every workman or finisher must know from the first elements of this theory, that the right depth must begin upon the tooth which divides the line of center; that is, that in every case, whether of two small or two large pinions, one must look for the middle of the two extremities, and fix the point of their depths, when these two movers run the most easy. Let only, I say, this same method be pursued with respect to pinions of just size, by carrying on the depthening a little too far till one perceives a small fall, and then carrying it to a distance again to make this fall disappear, all the requisites for a good and perfect depthening will be found united; for the pinion being in the due proportion with its tooth, the lead or depth can ~ 46. Je ne m'arreterai point ici pour donner des lecons sur la sixation du vrai point des engrenages, puisque chaque ouvrier soit finisseur doit savoir ce la par les premiers elemens de cette theorie que l'attouchement ou la menee doit commencer sur l'aile partageant la ligne des centres, en suivant meme leurs marottes ordinaires; c'est a dire qu'on doit chercher dans tous les cas soit pour pignons trop petits, le milieu des deux extremites et fixer leurs points d'engrenages ou ces deux mobiles roulent le plus doux; que l'on suive dis-je, seulement la meme methode a legard des pignons de justes grosseurs en poussant l'engrenage un peu trop en avant jusques a ce que l'on s'appercoive d'une petite chute, et en l'eloignant ensuite pour faire disparoitre cette chute; toutes les conditions d'un bon et parfait engrenage s'y trouveront reunies, car le pignon etant dans son vrai rapport, avec la Proportion Compass. 983 can only begin successively upon the central line, as likewise the operation of the rise in so many required degrees between these two moveables, the proof of which may be evidently demonstrated by the instrument made with two parts of a circle, in which the arc of the rise, run over by each of~ the movers, is distinguishable to one half, one quarter, and even one eighth of a degree. It would certainly be superfluous to point out the manner of operating with such a machine, since all those who have any notion of the method of using mechanical and mathematical instruments will immediately see what is meant. ~ 47. But should any body doubt of the reality, the utility, or the importance of this rule, the means of satisfaction are offered by the experiment of the degrees of rise a roue, l'attouchement, ou la menee ne peut du moins que commencer successivement sur la ligne centrale, ainsi que l'operation de la levee en autant de de~ gres requis, entre ces deux mobiles, dont la preuve se peut demontrer d'une maniere evidente par l'instrument a deux portions de cercle, ou l'arc de levee par couru par chacun des mobiles, se distingue jusqu'a 1/2, 1/4, et meme a 1e/8, d'un degre pres; il seroit sans doute tres superflu d'indiquer la maniere d'operer sur la dite machine, car toutes les personnes qui auront quelques connoissance et quelque pratique des instrumens de mechanique ou mathematique verront au premier coup d'aeil de quoi il s'agit. ~ 47. Au reste si quelqu'un vouloit revoquer en doute la realite, l'utilite, et l'importance de cette regle, on offre les moyens a tous ceux qui le desireront, d'en 1 saire 984 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented rise required. This will convince every body, as it has convinced the author, who both looks upon this operation as the best touch-stone, and considers it as an axiom equally new and easy for the resolution of a problem which has been an object of debate amongst watchmakers for above a century. ~ 48. The author thinks too, that this rule is applicable to all pinions whatsoever. The pinion of six has been chosen for the experiments, as incontestibly the most vicious; so vicious that, in my opinion, it deserves the fate of the pinion of five, especially for very good watches, which perhaps will be still better made out when one comes to know the gradual difference there is between saire l'experience par les degres de levees requis; pour s'en convaincre indubitablement tout comme l'auteur, qui estime a juste titre cette operation comme la meilleure pierre de touche et meme qui la regarde comme un axiome aussi facile que nouveau, pour resoudre sans replique un probleme qui depuis plus d'un siecle a fait un objet de debat et de contestation dans l'horlogerie; par ce que l'incertitude des vrais principes a ~ une suite presque generale jusques a nos jours 1777; ainsi que l'experience le demontre evidemment. ~ 48. L'auteur pense au reste que cette regle est applicable a tous les nombres et pignons quelconques; et pour plus grande surete de preuve dans les differentes experiences, l'on a choisi le pignon de six comme etant sans contredit le plus vicieux, ou le moins avantageux de tous les autres; aussi a mon avis meriteroit il le meme sort que le pignon de cinq, sur tout pour des montres de qualite, ce qui se verra peut-etre dans son temps quand on connoitra la difference graduelle qui se Proportion Compass. 985 between each pinion, which will be amply proved by some experimental observations of some friends of mine on the theory and practice of watch-making in general. ~ 49. I will not, however, pretend that my instrument is not still capable of several useful improvements. ~ 50. But I submit the rule, together with the compass of proportion, to all ingenious and well-informed persons, either for approbation or full confutation of my sentiments. ~ 51. se trouve entre chaque pignon et qui sera amplement detaillee dans les observations experimentales de MM. L.C. et P. sur la theorie et sur la pratique de l'horlogerie en general. ~ 49. Malgre des preuves aussi authentiques et aussi eonvainquantes de la realite de mon susdit expose, je n'oserois cependant pas dire que la machine ne soit pas susceptible d'une plus grande perfection et de diverses additions avantageuses. ~ 50. En attendant on soumet, avec une ~ confiance cette regle ainsi que le compas de proportion, qui dans tous les cas lui ~ de demonstrateur et de rapporteur fidele, a l'examen des personns eclairees qui peuvent en etre juges competens, pour en obtenir l'approbation en faveur des vrais principes, et pour exciter l'emulation si necessaire dans l'horlogerie; Si au contraire cette approbation n'a pas lieu, on demande une refutation en bonne et due forme. V O L. LXVIII. 6 G ~ 51. 986 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented ~ 51. And though the use of the compass extends to a great multiplicity of objects, I have only mentioned the most interesting ones with regard to watch-making. Observe that each pinion has its particular division upon the branches of the instrument, and that each column is directed by the number of pinions from six to twelve. ~ 52. The line or moving branch, which crosses the two branches of the compass, is divided according to the French foot in inches, lines, &c. to a 48th or 36th of a line; so that one may know at one and the same time both the true proportion of the different diameters, and their precise sizes. If one wishes to know the size of a wheel for a pinion of a given thickness, one puts the pinion ~ 51. Quoi que l'usage de notre susdit compas s'etende sur une multitude d'objets, on a seulement cite les plus interessans relativement a l'horlogerie; on observera que chaque pignon a sa division particuliere sur les branches de la machine et que chaque colomne est dirigee par le nombre des pignons depuis 6 jusques a 12. ~ 52. La ligne ou branche mouvante qui croise les deux branches du compas porte la division du pied de Roi, en pouces, lignes, &c. jusques a un 48e ou 36 douziemes de ligne, car une ligne a la machoire donne un pouce sur la dite division du pied; en sorte que l'on peut savoir tout d'un tems et le juste rapport des differens diametres et leurs grandeurs precises, &c.; si l'on veut savoir la grandeur d'une roue pour pignon d'une grosseur donnee: on fait entrer le pignon juste entre les 2 deux Proportion Compass. 987 nion between the jaw, and one carries the divider to the number of teeth which the wheel must have and the division of such a pinion indicates, then putting the divider of the other branch facing the aperture of this angle will indicate the just size of the wheel: for instance, if I have a pinion of six, and want to know what must be the thickness of a wheel of sixty teeth, relatively to the proportion of the said pinion, I take the just measure of the pinion by the jaws, and put the divider upon 60 of the column or division of the pinion of six, and the other divider facing, then the aperture between the points of the divider, is the size of the wheel. The same operation takes place in all the other pinions, according to their numbers, with this proviso, that you must do the reverse when deux~ machoires ou pinces et on mene le coulant sur le nombre des dents que la roue doit avoir et que la division d'un tel pignon indique; et en mettant le coulant de l'autre branche vis a vis, l'ouverture de cet angle indiquera la juste grandeur de la roue; par exemple, si j'ai un pignon de six et que je veuille savoir de quelle grosseur une roue de 60 dents doit etre relativement au rapport du dit pignon, je prends la mesure juste du pignon, par les machoires, et je mets le coulant sur 60 de la colonne soit de la division du pignon de six, et l'autre coulant vis a vis, alors l'ouverture entre les deux becs des coulans est la grandeur de la roue; la meme operation a lieu pour tous les autres pignons selon leurs nombres; bien entendu qu'il faut faire l'oppose lorsqu'on a une grandeur de roue donnee et 6 G 2 que 988 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented when the size of the wheel is given, and you want to know the thickness of the pinion. The same thing holds for the measure of the vargeous palets, the balance wheel, the cylinder and its wheel, the fusee and barrel, the pivots, and, generally speaking, whatever requires dimension. ~ 53. In order to find immediately the true proportion between the slide wheel and the curb, you must put the slide wheel upon the number you wish it to have of the division of the pinion of six; afterwards (without moving the head of the compass) you separate the moveable dividers till the wheel of the curb is exactly upon it, and it is on the number of the division of the pinion of six, indicated by the divider, that the curb must be slit. ~ 54. One must observe, that the divisions of the pinions of ten and twelve is the same upon the two branches; que l'on veut savoir la grosseur du pignon; il en est de meme pour la mesure des palettes de verges, de la roue de rencontre, du cilindre et de sa roue, de la fusee et barillet et des pivots, et generalement de tout ce qui exige dimension. ~ 53. Pour trouver aussi tot le juste rapport entre la roue de rosette sur le rateau soit la coulisserie, il faut mettre la roue de rosette sur le nombre que l'on souhaite qu'elle aie, de la division du pignon de six, ensuite (sans bouger la tete du compas) l'on eloigne les coulants jusques a ce que la roue de rateau s'y trouve juste, et c'est sur ce nombre de la division du pignon de six que le coulant indique, que le rateau doit etre fendu. ~ 54. Il faut observer que la division pour pignon de 10 et de 12 est de meme sur Proportion Compass. 989 branches; this is done the more easily to put the two sliders facing each other in all cases. When one wishes to measure pieces which are larger than the aperture of the jaws allows, one puts the sliders on the edge of the small points when there is a hole in the middle of the branches where the aperture of the angle is only a sixth part of the division of a foot, that is, if the angle upon the division of the foot is six inches open, that of the middle will be only one inch and so on. ~ 55. As to the other machine of brass, with two portions of a circle divided as far as half a quarter of a degree, one may with the greatest precision verify upon it the true proportion or thickness of the pinions by the degrees of rise required by making the different wheels from sur les deux branches, et cela pour mettre plus facilement dans tous les cas les coulans parfaitement vis a vis. Lorsqu'on voudroit mesurer quelques pieces plus grande que l'ouverture des machoires ne le permet, on met les coulans sur le bord des petits points ou il y a un trou au milieu des branches ou l'ouverture de son angle n'est que la sixieme partie de celui de la division du pied; c'est a dire si l'angle sur la division du pied est ouvert a six pouces, celui du milieu ne le sera qu'a un pouce, ainsi du reste. ~ 55. Quant a l'autre machine en leton a deux portions de cercle divisee jusques a un demi quart de degre; l'on peut y verifier avec la plus grande precision, le juste rapport des pignons soit grosseur par les degres de levees requises, <inferred>et</inferred> 990 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented from 12 to 120 operate upon the same pinion the degrees of rise required. These wheels exactly follow the dimensions of the rule we are speaking of. Nobody will doubt but that the same experiments upon all the other pinions will be equally demonstrative and convincing as those upon the pinion of six. ~ 56. This machine may be likewise useful in determining with great precision the figure of the curve of the teeth of the wheels, that is, by placing the additional semi-circle upon the center of the wheel, and putting a needle upon the axis, one will observe, if the needle of the pinion of six goes regularly through the ten degrees whilst that of the wheel is going through one only; if not, one will see very distinctly the irregularity of the curve, et principalement pour se convaincre de la realite de notre susdite regle, en faisant operer les differentes roues depuis le nombre de 12 jusques a 120 sur le meme pignon les degres de levees requis; ces roues suivent exactement les dimensions de la regle en question; on ne doutera sans doute pas que les memes experiences sur tous les autres pignons ne seroient pas moins demonstratives et convaincantes que celles sur le pignon de six. ~ 56. Cette machine peut encore servir pour determiner avec une grande precision la vraie figure de la courbe des dents de la roue scavoir en posant le demi cercle postiche sur le centre de la roue, et en mettant une aiguille sur l'axe ou l'arbre; on observera si l'aiguille du pignon de six parcourt regulierement les dix degres pendant que celle de la roue n'en parcourt qu'un, si non on verra tres distinctement la difformite de la courbe pour lui donner la forme requise, pour operer Proportion Compass. 991 curve, in order to the giving it the requisite form uniformly to operate the degrees of rise upon the teeth of the pinion, which comes very nearly to the geometrical curve, the operations of which are not to be understood by all watch-makers as this instrument may be. ~ 57. Every body sees that the curve of a wheel of 120 teeth must naturally be one half shorter than that of one of 60, since it goes only through three degrees whilst the tooth of the pinion goes through 60. The same holds in every case in which the curve of the tooth must be figured, according to the degrees it goes over in its axis, to operate upon the wheel of any pinion whatever that arc of the rise the most uniformly possible, and in order to join these advantages to others still more considerable, it will be useful to make use of wheels and pinions operer avec uniformite les degres de levees sur l'aile du pignon, ce qui revient a peu de chose pres a la courbe geometrique dont les operations ne sont pas de la competence de tous les horlogers comme le seroit cet instrument. ~ 57. On sent bien que la courbe d'une roue de 120 dents doit etre naturellement plus courte de la moitie que celle de 60 puis qu'elle ne parcourt que 3~ pendant que l'aile du pignon en parcourt 60, &c. Il en est de memes dans tous les cas ou la courbe de la dent doit etre figuree selon les degres qu'elle parcourt sur son axe pour operer sur l'aile d'un pignon quelconque, l'arc de levee le plus uniformement possible; et pour reunir ces derniers avantages a d'autres plus considerables encore, il convient de faire usage des pignons et roues aussi nombreuses que 992 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented nions with as great a number of teeth as the greatness of the caliber permits. By this means one not only comes nearer the true geometrical curve; but one reduces the resistance and pressure upon the axis of the moveable to the least term possible. ~ 58. As to the true point of the opening of the teeth, this is my rule. I take rather a soft file, in thickness six and a quarter of its diameter for a pinion of six, seven and a quarter for one of seven, eight and a quarter for one of eight, ten and a quarter for one of ten, twelve and a quarter for one of twelve, and so on; and I believe that this rule may be the easiest for the preservation both of the best figure of the curves and the necessary force of their teeth. Just as the thickness of the teeth of a pinion of six must be the sixth part of its diameter; that of que la grandeur du calibre le permet; par ce moyen on s'approche non seulement de la vraie courbe geometrique, mais on reduit encore la resistance et la pression sur l'axe des mobiles au moindre terme possible. ~ 58. Quant au juste point de vuidage de la denture des roues de tel nombre et grandeur quelconque, voici ma regle: je prends une lime ou fraise pas trop rude de l'epaisseur pour pignon de six, la 6e et 1/4 de son diametre; pour 7 la 7e et 1/4; pour 8 la 8e 1/4; pour 10 la 10e 1/4; pour 12 la 12e 1/4; ainsi du reste pour tous les autres; et je crois que cette regle pourroit etre la plus facile et la plus analogue pour la conservation et de la meilleure figure des courbes et de la force necessaire de la denture, tout comme l'epaisseur des ailes d'un pignon de 6 doit 5 etre Proportion Compass. 993 of the pinion of seven, a seventh; one of eight, an eighth; and so on, for any number of pinions whatever. Just in the same manner as the length of the teeth of the wheel, which shall be exactly the aperture of their angles, or (which comes to the same) half the diameter of its pinion of six, three sevenths for a pinion of seven, three eighths for one of eight, three tenths for one of ten, three twelfths, or a quarter, for a pinion of twelve, and so on ~ 59. To observe a still more regular order, it would be likewise extremely proper that all the pinions of a watch or repeater, except the centre one, should be of the same thickness; hence will arise many advantages both in the execution of the rough and finished work, which I shall speak more fully of upon some other occasion. etre la 6e partie de son diametre; pour pignon de 7 la 7e; pour 8 la 8e, ainsi de suite pour tous les nombres de pignons que ce soit. Aussi bien que la longueur des dents de la roue qui sera positivement de l'ouverture de leurs angles, ou ce qui est la meme chose, la moitie du diametre de son pignon de six les 3/7es pour pignon de 7, les 3/8es pour 8, les 3/10es pour 10, les 3/12es soit le quart pour pignon de douze, ainsi de suite. ~ 59. Pour observer d'autant mieux et a tous egards une suite d'ordre, il seroit aussi tres a propos, que tous les pignons d'une montre ou repetition (excepte celui du centre) fussent de la meme grosseur; d'ou resulte divers avantages soit dans l'execution du brut, soit dans celui du finissage, dont on parlera plus amplement a la premiere occasion. V O L. LXVIII. 6 H T A B L E 994 Mr. LE CERF on a new-invented T A B L E D E D E D U C T I O N S. Les deux mobiles en parfait Diam. Diam. equilibre. appavrai. rent. Pignons et Roues. 6 et 6 1 ligne. 1 ligne. Ligne chacun de diametre. 2 douziemes de ligne par revo2 12 24 22 lution a deduire. 3 18 36 32 4 4 24 48 42 6 5 30 60 52 8 6 36 72 62 10 7 42 84 72 12 douziemes. 8 48 96 82 9 54 108 92 10 60 120 102 11 66 132 112 Dents de la roue. 12 72 144 122 13 78 156 132 24 douziemes. 14 84 168 142 15 90 180 152 16 96 192 162 17 102 204 172 18 108 216 182 19 114 228 192 36 douziemes. 20 120 240 202 Revolutions passives du pignons. 21 126 252 212 22 132 264 222 23 138 276 232 24 144 288 242 25 150 300 252 48 douziemes de ligne a retrancher sur une roue de 150 48 dents soit 24 revolutions effec300 300 tives d'un pignon de six. I Pour Proportion Compass. 995 Pour Pignons de Sept. Les deux mobiles en parfait Diam. Diam. equilibre. appavrai. rent. Pignons et Roues. 7 et 7 101/2 101/2 Douz. de ligne de diam. chacun. 11/2 douziemes de ligne a deduire 2 14 21 191/2 par revolution. 3 21 311/2 281/2 3 4 28 42 371/2 41/2 5 35 521/2 461/2 6 6 42 63 551/2 71/2 7 49 731/2 641/2 9 8 56 84 731/2 101/2 douziemes. 9 63 941/2 821/2 10 70 105 911/2 11 77 1151/2 1001/2 Dents de la roue. 12 84 126 1091/2 13 91 1361/2 1181/2 14 98 147 1271/2 15 105 1571/2 1361/2 21 douziemes. 16 112 168 1451/2 17 119 1781/2 1541/2 18 126 189 1631/2 19 133 1991/2 1721/2 20 140 210 1811/2 21 147 2201/2 1901/2 22 154 231 1991/2 311/2 douziemes. Revolutions passives du pignon. 23 161 2411/2 2081/2 24 168 252 2171/2 25 175 2621/2 2261/2 26 182 273 2351/2 27 189 2831/2 2441/2 28 196 294 2531/2 29 203 3041/2 2621/2 42 douziemes de ligne a re42 trancher sur une roue de 203 dents soit 28 revolutions effec3041/2 3041/2 tives d'un pignon de sept. 6 H 2 Pour 996 Mr. LE CERE on a new-invented Pour Pignons de Huit. Les deux mobiles en parfait Diam. Diam. equilibre. appavrai. rent. Pignons et Roues. 8 et 8 1 ligne. 1 ligne. de diametre chacun. 11/2 douziemes de ligne a deduire 2 16 24 221/2 par revolution. 3 24 36 33 3 4 32 48 431/2 41/2 5 40 60 54 6 6 48 72 641/2 71/2 7 56 84 75 9 8 64 96 851/2 101/2 9 72 108 96 12 douziemes. 10 80 120 1061/2 Dents de la roue. 11 88 132 117 12 96 144 1271/2 13 104 156 138 14 112 168 1481/2 15 120 180 159 16 128 192 1691/2 17 136 204 180 24 douziemes. 18 144 216 1901/2 19 152 228 201 Revolutions passives du pignon. 20 160 240 2111/2 21 168 252 222 22 176 264 2321/2 23 184 276 243 24 192 288 2531/2 25 200 300 264 36 douziemes de ligne a retrancher sur une roue de 200 36 dents soit 24 revolutions effec300 300 tives d'un pignon de huit. 2 Pour Proportion Compass. 997 Pour Pignons de Dix. Les deux mobiles en parfait Diam. Diam. equilibre. appavrai. rent. Pignons et Roues. 10 et 10 15 15 de diametre chacun. 11/2 douziemes de ligne a deduire 2 20 30 281/2 par revolution. 3 30 45 42 3 4 40 60 551/2 41/2 5 50 75 69 6 6 60 90 821/2 71/2 7 70 105 96 9 8 80 120 1091/2 101/2 9 90 135 123 12 Dents de la roue. 10 100 150 1361/2 131/2 11 110 165 150 15 douziemes. 12 120 180 1631/2 13 130 195 177 14 140 210 1901/2 15 150 225 204 16 160 240 2171/2 17 170 255 231 Revolutions passives du pignon. 18 180 270 2441/2 19 190 285 258 20 200 300 2711/2 21 210 315 285 30 douziemes de ligne a retrancher sur une roue de 210 30 dents soit 20 revolutions effectives d'un pignon de dix. 315 315 Pour 998 Mr. LE CERF on a Proportion Compass Pour Pignons de Douze. Les deux mobiles en parfait Diam. Diam. equilibre. appavrai. rent. Pignons et Roues. 12 et 12 18 18 Douz. de ligne de diam. chacun. 11/2 douziemes de ligne a retran2 24 36 341/2 cher par revolution. 3 36 54 51 3 4 48 72 671/2 41/2 5 60 90 84 6 6 72 108 1001/2 71/2 7 84 126 117 9 8 96 144 1331/2 101/2 9 108 162 150 12 10 120 180 1661/2 131/2 Dents de la roue. 11 132 198 183 15 12 144 216 1991/2 161/2 13 156 234 216 18 douziemes. 14 168 252 2321/2 15 180 270 249 16 192 288 2651/2 17 204 306 282 18 216 324 2981/2 Revolutions passives du pignon. 19 228 342 315 20 240 360 3311/2 21 252 378 347 22 264 96 3631/2 23 276 414 380 24 288 432 3961/2 36 douziemes de ligne a re25 300 450 414 trancher sur une roue de 300 36 dents soit 24 revolutions effectives d'un pignon de 12. 450 450 