Abstracts of two Letters from M. Dufay, F. R. S. &c. to Dr. Mortimer, Secr. R. S. concerning the Efficacy of Oil of Olives in curing the Bite of Vipers. Part of a Letter from Mons. Dufay to Dr. Mortimer, dated at Paris, Aug. 8. 1737. [Translated from the French, by T. S. M. D.] A F T E R I had given the Academy an Account of your Observations on the Remedy against the Bite of Vipers, a Committee was appointed to make the same Experiments here. But whether it be, that our Vipers are more venomous than yours, or that the Bites were more considerable, of the several Pigeons and Fowls that were bit, not one recover'd, though they were immediately rubbed with Oil. They died in a Quarter of an Hour, or in an Hour's time at farthest. The like Experiments have been made on several other Animals; but as the Gentlemen are resolved to repeat them, I do not send you an Account of them. All I can say at present is, that the Remedy seems to be not so sure here as in England, where I find by the publick News-papers, Rattlesnake has been lately brought, and that its Bite has been cured by the same Remedy. Signed, Dufay. Abstract [445] Abstract of a Letter from M. Dufay to C. Mortimer, dated at Paris, Dec. 11. 1737. * * * T W O Members of the Academy have been employed to make the Experiments relating to the Cure of the Bite of Vipers, and they have accordingly made some upon Dogs, Cats, Pigeons, Chickens, Ducks and Turkeys; some of which have been cured, but some others died notwithstanding this Remedy; and there were even some that did not die, though they were bit very deep, and yet no Application of Oil was made. This is the Report they have made us of these Experiments; and they are determined to make new ones. * * ~ All that can be thought concerning the Difference of the Success of this Remedy at London and at Paris, as it seems to me, is, that all Vipers are not equally venomous; that all Bites are not perhaps equally easy to be cured; and, in a word, that the Vipers in France are more dangerous than those in England. Finally, the Sequel of these Experiments will probably teach us, in what Cases this Remedy may be applied in this Country, France. I shall tell you a Piece of News: We have here made with Success the Phosphorus of Kunckel, as good and as fine as that of Mr. Godfrey: We made nine Drachms at the first Operation. if you care to have the Particulars, I shall readily send you them. * * * M m m VIII. Extract 