An Extract of a Letter of the same Mr. Lister, written from York April 12. 1672. concerning animated Horse-hairs; rectifying a Uulgar Error. Sir, I Cannot discover any thing new and rare in natural Philosophy,but I must forthwith make you participate of my good fortune; and I assure you,the relation,I am about to make you, is of a thing very surprising. It hath been credibly reported, that Horse hairs thrown into water will be animated; and yet I shall shew you by an unquestionable observation,that such things as are vulgarly thought animated Hairs are very Insects, nourished within the bodies of other Insects, even as lchneumones are within the bodies of Caterpillars. I will premise the particulars concerning this Animal,as I find them collected by the Industry of Aldrovandus, and save you the trouble of that voluminous Author. This Insect (saith he) seems to have been unknown to the Ancients; as it is called by the moderns seta aquatica or vermis setarius, either from the most slender figure of the body; or because it is thought to be generated of an horse-hair putrifying in water. The Germans call them by a name rendred Vituli aquatui. It is bred in corrupt waters; perhaps of horse-hair, for (saith Albertus upon his own frequent trial, as I find him quoted by Aldrovandus,) these hairs, put into standing water,move and are inamated,or, as he words it, vitam & spiritum accipiunt, & moventur (4065) tur. Others have thought them to have their birth from weeds hanging down from the banks into ponds and Rivers. Others from Locusts and Grashoppers (ex Bruchis;) which last though it be near the matter, yet it is rejected by Aldrovandus himself, as the most unlikely. They have been found in a cold and good spring, and elsewhere, (which is a wonder, saith Aldrovandus,) upon a leafe in a Garden. And this, which was there found, was 5 or 6 fingersbreadth long; the thickness of a bristle Horse~hair, with a duskish back, and a white belly; and the tail on every side white. I saw (saith Aldrovandus) a black one thicker than the whi= tish one. Other Authors otherwise describe them,as Bertrutius, Albertus, &c. Some affirming them to have been a cubit long; others, two cubits, others, 9 inches long at the least: that they are white of colour,and so hard as scarce to be crushed with ones foot: to be every where of the same thickness: that they move not as wormes move, but snake-like, and knit themselves up into knots: that their skin is one continued thing without Incisures; and therefore some would exclude them from the insect-kind: that they have no head, but swim both waies, and therefore may be called amphisbaena aquatica: that they are poyson, drunk down into the stomack, but not venom to the touch. And thus much out of Aldrovandus concerning the name of this Insect, the place of its birth and original, the place where they are to be found, its description, different species, nature, poyson &c. Our observation is this. April. 2. there was thrown up out of the ground of my Garden, in digging amongst other things of this nature, a certain cole~black Beetle of a midle size, and flat shape, and which I have observed elsewhere common enough. These Beetles I dissected upon the account of some curiosity, wherein I had a mind to satisfy myself. But I was surprised to find in their swollen bellies of these Hair~wormes, in some three, in others but one only. These particulars we carefully noted: 1. That upon the incision they crawl'd forth of themselves. 2. That putting them into water, they lived in it many daies,and did seem to endeavour to escape by lifting up their heads out of the water, and fastning them to the side of the vessels; very plainly drawing the rest of their body forward. 3. That they cannot be S s s s said (4066) said to be amphisbaena, but do move forward only by the head, which is fairly distinguishable from the tail by a notable blackness. 4 That the three, I took out of the body of one Beetle, were all of a dark hair-colour with whitish bellies, somewhat thicker then hoggs bristles; but I took out of the body of another beetle one that was much thicker than the rest; much lighter coloured; and by measure just five Inches and a halflong; whereas all the rest did not exceed three inches three quarters. 