An Account of an Earthquake felt at Lingfield in Surrey, and Edenbridge in Kent, on the 24th of January 1758. By James Burrow, Esq; R. S. V. P. I N the London Chronicle, No. 181, published on the 25th of February 1758, in page 185, is the following article: `` We `` hear, that about two o' clock in the morning of `` the 24th of last month'' (which was the month of January), `` an Earthquake was felt in the pa`` rishes of Worthe, and East-Grinsted, in Sussex; `` Lingfield, in Surrey; and Edenbridge, in Kent; `` and other adjacent places: which alarmed several `` of the inhabitants very much; but no damage `` ensued.'' Read April 6, 1758. Mr. Burrow, having some connection with these two last parishes of Lingfield and Edenbridge, immediately wrote to the Rev. Mr. Goodricke of Lingfield, to inquire into the truth of this report: and Mr. Goodricke's answer confirmed the fact of its being felt there, and at other adjacent places; and added, `` that it shook the beds and windows, and `` made [615] `` made the plates rattle; and went off with a noise, `` like a small gust of wind.'' However, Mr. Burrow did not then judge it to be either regular or proper to trouble the Society with this account; because Mr. Goodricke only received it from hearsay and report, he himself happening to be absent from Lingfield at that time. But Mr. Burrow having passed some days, during the late recess of the Society, at a place called Starborough-castle, which lies nearly between the two churches of Lingfield and Edenbridge (scarce four miles distant from each other), he has had an opportunity of being more particularly and circumstantially informed of the fact, as far as relates to those two parishes: and he is now assured, that it was certainly and undoubtedly felt and observed by some persons in each of those two parishes; tho' (as it happened in the dead of the night, when most people were fast asleep) it was not generally perceived: nor was it much spoken of, even by those, who were sure they felt it. The persons, from whose own mouths he can authenticate the fact, are James Martin, Adam Killick, Mrs. Jewell, and Mr. Chapman: and he has no less doubt as to Mr. Orgles and Mrs. Pigott (who was waked and much frighted by it), tho' he did not indeed personally converse with either of the two last. These two, and Mrs. Jewell, all inhabit quite close to Lingfield church-yard, on different sides of it: and Chapman lives within a quarter of a mile of it, to the south-west. James Martin lives within a bow-shot of Starborough-castle, at the eastern edge of the parish of Lingfield, [616] Lingfield, where it joins to that of Edenbridge; and Adam Killick's habitation is three miles north-east of Starborough, at the north-western point of the parish of Edenbridge. All these four, with whom Mr. Burrow personally conversed, agreed as to the time of the concussion; viz. between one and two in the morning: and they all agreed as to the shaking of their beds and windows; and all of them described the continuance of the shock as not much more than instantaneous: but they did not all hear the noise, which some of them observed it to conclude with; particularly Adam Killick heard NO noise at all; and yet, he says, he was broad awake when it first began: and it shook his house and bed, and made his windows rattle so much, that he was apprehensive of their being broken; and even caused one pane of glass (which was indeed loose before) actually to drop out. But James Martin, who was likewise fully awake (as was his wife too), did hear the noise distinctly. He says, he felt his house and bed shake, heard his windows rattle, and some earthen ware clatter upon a chest of drawers; and also heard a noise, like the distant dicharge of a cannon: whereupon he immediately said to his wife, `` Lord! what is that?'' but she happening, at that very instant, either to cough or sneeze (she cannot recollect which of the two), did not, tho' quite awake, perceive any thing at all of the matter. However, she confirmed her husband's asking her this question under an apparent surprize. Mr. Burrow had a very particular conversation with these two separately: and he had also a very minute detail from Adam Killick (who works for him [617] him as a sort of gardener at Starborough); who further added, `` that the shock waked and frighted his `` wife, tho' she was fast asleep before.'' 6th April, 1758. James Burrow. LXXXIII. 